ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I ask Members to take their seats. I will appoint Monika Wielichowska, Arkadiusz Myrcha, Piotr Olszówka and Łukasz Schreiber to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Piotr Olszówka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Arkadiusz Myrch. I consider the minutes of the 68th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 17 September this year. Ms Joanna Sosnowska, Member of the Sejm III and the 4th term of office, as well as Councilwoman of Olsztyn City Council, died. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. High Seym! At the same time, I would like to inform you that we are being heard by a delegation of parliamentarians from the Seimas Education and Science Committee of the Republic of Lithuania, headed by its President, Mr Eugenijus Jovaisa. Welcome. [[Applause]] Welcome to our guests. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Order Act and some other laws, print No 2860. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, - amending certain laws to introduce simplifications for businesses in tax and economic law, - about companies investing in real estate rentals, - amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants, - draft budget law for 2019. The projects are printers 2854, 2862, 2855, 2857 and 2864 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. A group of Members submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, - amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code and amending other laws, - to help those who are independent. The projects are printers 2852, 2471 and 2771 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, - public documents, - on the amendment of the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. These are printers No 2843, 2845 and 2825 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, - amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise, - amending the Act on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products, - amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act, - the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Remembrance of the Resurrection Priests. These are printers 2874, 2868, 2871, 2873, 2872 and 2851 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska, print No 2850. The committee's opinion is in print No 2870. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with There are formal requests. The first proposal is submitted by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats I would like to apply for the adjournment of the Sejm by 1 hour so that the marshal can call on the Minister of Health to provide us with information on what will happen next with the Voivodeship Hospital in Przemyśl. Well, there has been a hunger strike for nurses for a month. [[You were eight years old.]] There is no strong response from the Management Board of Podkarpackie Voivodship. Nurses have not left their beds, for which they must be thanked, but they are desperate because their demands cannot be met. It's a huge threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the health care system operating in that area. Mr. Marshal! You're from that region. I was on Thursday... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u3	Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u4	I was at the hospital on Saturday. The nurses are waiting for... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u5	Thank you, sir. The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u6	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I apply for the rejection of the government draft law on the Fund for Local Roads at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the Law and Justice lied to Poles. Do the Poles know that you want to rob Poles for the amount of PLN 1400 million in 2019? You're pulling money out of taxpayers' pockets by raising fuel prices. Let the Poles know why you want to do this again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u7	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u8	We as Kukiz.15 say that the construction of roads is necessary, but not a fictional construction of roads, but a real construction of roads.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u9	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u10	And you want to fold... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u11	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u12	...to the hands of the citizens... As Kukiz, 15, we don't agree to this. We are requesting that this project be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u13	I address Mr Łukasz Rzepecki. Please submit this request at first reading if it occurs because there will be a question of opposition. There you go. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, so I am returning this proposal to you. Thank you, sir. Mr President, please take this proposal away, because this is a proposal to be submitted at first reading. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is October 2nd, the Day of Remembrance for the Civil Population of Uprising Warsaw. 3 years ago, the High Chamber adopted by acclamation, a resolution, the establishment of that day. At this moment there are ceremonies at the Warsaw Insurgents' Cemetery in Wola, and at the request of Mrs Wanda Traczyk-Stawska I feel obliged, if the marshal permits it, to read this short text of the resolution which we adopted on 25 September 2015. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland establishes on 2 October the Day of Remembrance of the Civil Uprising People of Warsaw. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The Warsaw Uprising lasted 63 days thanks to the sacrificial and determined attitude of the Warsaw residents. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the inhabitants of the capital: those who, in support of the fighting insurgents, sacrificed their lives, and those who, after the surrender of the Warsaw Uprising, were expelled from the city and passed the Gehenna of concentration camps, slave labour and wanderers. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude to all Poles who gave the expelled population of Warsaw support and assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u15	Among the proposals is a request for deferral - actually it should be a request for interruption - but I would like to point out that this is a proposal which is not linked to the proceedings of the Sejm, but I will still put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Let me remind you that this is a motion to adjourn one hour. Who of you is in favour of adjourning the sitting, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 340 Members voted. The vote was 150, against 186, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund, print No 2859. At the Senior Conventions meeting, there were objections to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the Fund for Local Roads, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 345 Members voted. The vote was 283, against - 60, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, print No 2848. At the meeting of the Convention, objections were raised to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a first reading of the draft. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put the proposal to the vote to complete this point. I would remind you that in this case too, voting is not preceded by debate or questioning. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft act on the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 341 Members voted. The vote was 188, against - 151, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the circles of rural hostesses, print No 2856. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is also a point on the agenda. I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 343 Members voted. The vote was 286, against - 54, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The government, i.e. the Council of Ministers, has submitted a draft law amending the Law on Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws, print No 2861. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is also a point on the agenda. I will put the proposal to the vote to complete the agenda. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of supplementing the agenda by this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 344 Members voted. 188 voted against - 155, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, print No 2824. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for this matter. It is also, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of completing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 343 Members voted. 186 voted against - 154, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to supplement the agenda for the committee's report on the draft law on the circles of rural hostess. This is also a point on the agenda. I will put the proposal to the vote to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point on the report of the Agriculture Committee on the Government draft law on the circles of rural hostess, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 343 Members voted. The vote was 292, against - 48, with three abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau gave an opinion on the proposal that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion in the first readings of the draft tax laws in print Nos 2854 and 2852. At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, it was proposed that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on these points. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Bureau of the Sejm to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to hear the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the joint discussion, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 344 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 148, with six abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate at first reading of the draft budget law for 2019. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion at first reading of the draft legislation on support for persons with disabilities. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports on draft laws: - ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production of films of 30 January 2017, - the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Remembrance of the Resurrection Priests. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the state of use of European Union funds in voivodships and the risks posed by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12 hours 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - Health-- hour. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - to State Control together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 13, - Parliamentary Patients' Rights Team - at 10 p.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u17	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws (Prints No. 2809 and 2843). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. And your fellow Members, may I have your attention, please? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And to stop talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the 68th meeting of the Sejm the first reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax was held. The purpose of amending this law is to introduce further simplifications in the settlement of tax returns by taxpayers of personal income tax. The government proposes to introduce a new form of tax settlement in addition to the existing tax statements by the taxpayer, i.e. in paper or electronic form through the e-Report system. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] tax return by the National Tax Administration, without the need for the taxpayer to submit an application. The National Tax Administration's tax return will be based on information from personal income tax payers, data provided by the taxpayer in the tax return for the previous year and data contained in the register of its own head of the National Tax Administration and other state registers, e.g. ZUS. In practice, this means that close to 25% clearing taxpayers who are individually and who do not benefit from any reductions or deductions will not have to do anything to settle their personal income tax for the previous year. This is a revolutionary qualitative change introduced by the government in the area of PIT settlement. The Public Finance Commission considered this draft law at its meeting on 13 September this year. The Commission has examined the various amendments in all the articles of the Act. Two amendments were tabled during the debate, which were accepted by all members of the committee after discussion and evaluation by the Legislative Bureau. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend the High House to adopt this bill without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u19	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mrs Maria Zuba. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I ask your Members either to move the talks into the cockroaches, or to listen to what you have to say, because we are talking, not only about the Member representing the club, about taxes. [[Game in the O.R.]] Members, please be quiet. [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen... Oh, and this is the moment when we can begin listening to the position presented on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mrs Zuba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act after its second reading, which took place on 13 September in the Public Finance Commission. The legal solutions adopted in the draft for the submission of tax returns on personal income tax are not controversial and accepted by all clubs. Let me remind you: the government in the project is proposing that tax returns be drawn up by the National Tax Administration. When making a statement, the IRS will use already held data about the taxpayer. The taxpayer will have an insight into such a prepared statement, and he will be able to correct it. In the end, the taxpayer will decide whether he will benefit from such testimony or whether he will do so himself from the beginning. It should be pointed out that the taxpayer is protected by the provisions of this law against the negative consequences of the misconception of the tax return by the KAS. During the second reading in the Committee on Public Finance, Members welcomed the technical and editorial amendments which improve the transparency of the rules and do not change the rules in substance. In addition, they welcomed two substantive amendments. The first of these amendments sets out the system for the transmission of data by the ZUS to the central tax register. In this amendment the obligation to transmit data was waived on the CSO [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] on the taxable person, because the same data of the Social Security Office is required to report to the heads of the tax office and these data will be used in the preparation of the statement. The second amendment, which also concerns data provided by the Social Security Office, was also positive. This amendment regulates that tax returns drawn up in 2020 may contain a full entry for the taxpayer, and therefore the Social Security Office is obliged to transfer to the central data register also the data of the taxpayer for December 2018. The amended amendment will make the tax return prepared in 2020 by the tax authority for 2019 covered all contributions paid by the taxpayer in that calendar year. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of these amendments. At the same time, I would like to point out that during the proceedings of the finance committee a discussion was held on the change of deadline, the extension of the deadline for submitting tax returns for the tax year. The government proposes that all taxpayers send information to the head of the tax office by the end of January of the following tax year. This is dictated by the fact that the government is primarily aimed at making refunds as soon as possible for taxable persons overpaid tax. Finally, this request was not supported, as the extension of the deadline for submission of data, information by the taxpayer would also result in a delay in the refund of the excess tax, and, as I said earlier, the purpose of the changes proposed by the government is to return the excess tax to the taxpayers as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u21	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow to the floor to present her speech on behalf of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present to the High House a position on the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws, print Nos 2809 and 2843. The draft amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws introduces further simplification of PIT tax settlements. The comprehensive IT system of the tax administration was launched by the PO-PSL government, introducing the possibility of submitting tax returns via the Internet using the free e-Tests application. The use of the declaration made available on the website of the Ministry of Finance did not entail the need for qualified electronic signature. Only data from the accounts of the previous year were needed for verification. The next step was the introduction in 2015 of a pre-completed PIT settlement, which could have been accepted by the taxpayer in the absence of reliefs and other comments. The Ministry of Finance continued to develop this solution, which allows further facilitation for taxpayers and which are included in the project under investigation. According to the draft law, the National Tax Administration will prepare completed annual tax returns for all taxpayers, which will be made available from 15 February of the year following the tax year until 30 April in an electronic version in the application available on the tax portal. The National Tax Administration will be based on information from payers, data provided by the taxpayer in a statement for the previous year, e.g. relief for children, no KRS public benefit organization, which last year gave 1% the tax, and the data contained in the records of the head of KAS concerning the amount of advances paid on income tax and other registers, in particular the Social Security Office. In the 2018 accounts, statements will be available to taxable persons who are not engaged in business activities and who submit a tax return on the form PIT-37, and to taxable persons who obtain income from cash capital, making a tax return on the form PIT-38. In the following year, tax returns will also be available to taxpayers of natural persons engaged in non-agricultural activities. It should be stressed that taxpayers whose contact details are in the register of cash registers, e.g. telephone number, e-mail address, etc., will receive a message about your tax return. The taxpayer will choose to proceed. It can verify and accept the settlement unchanged. In the case of PIT-37 and PIT-38 statements, no action may be taken. They will then be automatically accepted at the end of the deadline for the submission of annual statements. It can modify and supplement data, e.g. change the organisation of public benefit and other data that the National Tax Administration does not have and then accept. It can, of course, reject the settlement and settle itself. The introduction of the submission will further simplify the tax system for individuals' income tax payers by removing the obligation to produce PIT tax returns on their own. This will also avoid errors and other stress that often accompany taxpayers in this whole PIT settlement procedure. For taxable persons making PITs by electronic communication there will also be a reduction, which is very important, from 3 months to 45 days of reimbursement of the excess payment resulting from the submission of the statement. Reducing the costs of tax collection and saving paper and protecting forests, which are closely linked to this, will have an important effect on simplifications. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club welcomes the continued work undertaken during our governments, the PO-PSL governments, on the simplification of taxpayers' accounts. We will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u23	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi will speak on behalf of the Kukiz team15. But before that happens, you'll allow me to welcome the students of the High School that teaches them. Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz in Nasielsko. I take it the tutors are, too. [[Applause]] I wish you a successful stay in the Sejm, positive impressions, also from watching the plenary sitting of the Sejm, which has just begun today. Now, sir, present your position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u24	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm joining you in welcoming the high school students. This is the greatest time of my life. Unfortunately, the studies are a little different. We're waiting for you down here because it's time to rejuvenate a little. It's company. That includes me. On the other hand, back to rejuvenation, we are starting here a discussion on simplification, right? Because the aim of these changes is to simplify, make it easier to account for taxes. This is, of course, the right direction, which is the European direction. We are even a little late here, in some countries this process is far more advanced. I understand that this is not only a matter of willingness, but also capacity, mainly IT systems, and these information systems in our country are unfortunately neither integrated nor working well enough. I would very much like such changes to be parallel to changes and powerful investments in information systems, but to create an e-state whose functioning would make life easier for all of us and would not create such absurdities as I find in my professional work. When e.g. PESEL makes a request for a PESEL number when it is required by a person living abroad, who is also a Polish citizen, but who does not have an important Polish passport, the office has to conduct proceedings at the voivodeship for confirmation of citizenship, even though it has the possibility to look at it on the computer, to trace this process and should know. Something's not right about this, but this bill has to go in the right direction. We will therefore, in principle, support it, of course, but this does not mean that the project is flawless. My previous speaker, or rather your rapporteur, spoke about these comments we have been talking about. We want to make it easier for the taxpayer, but let's remember that taxpayers, and in this case It is the payers who are also entrepreneurs. We cannot proceed in such a way as to choke entrepreneurs, and undoubtedly shorten the deadline for the submission of annual tax calculations from 2 months, as has been the case so far, to 1 month causes them huge problems. Really, the beginning of the year is the time when all reports are being prepared and at this moment the additional duty is added in January... January is not a normal month. This is the month in which we have much less working days, as the beginning of January de facto is excluded from normal work. Large entrepreneurs have accounting services, tax services, but small entrepreneurs will have a very complicated situation, it will be difficult in such a short time to prepare all this information, also documentation, and we know that this documentation is crucial because the reliability of this information depends on the next stage of settlement and reimbursement, which we are talking about, possible overpayments. From that sort of thing. Well, that depends. So that we are constantly repeating the proposal here, we are hoping that, in the further process, perhaps at the stage of the Senate, we will be able to find a compromise. The proposal for this compromise was presented. Since there can no longer be a 2-month period because we want to shorten this process, this burden should be spread equally between the National Tax Administration and entrepreneurs. Therefore, it was proposed that this should not be the end of January, but only be the middle of February. I think it is still worthwhile for us to discuss this, sit down with specialists and think about whether this is possible. In our view, it is possible for the National Tax Administration to take appropriate action during this period, which will remain. Let us remember that this is not the best solution if we introduce simplifications for the citizen and this is happening at someone else's expense. This should be done in such a way that our administration is to work more and more, to be more equipped, to have more and better tools and thus to be faster, more efficient and to make life easier not only for us taxpayers, but also for payers, entrepreneurs. Therefore, here we are still insisting that, however, the article should be introduced. 45 appropriate changes. Regardless of this, we support this direction, simplifying the lives of every citizen by simplifying the tax system, simplifying systems, simplifying bureaucracy. If we manage to eliminate bureaucracy and introduce working citizen service, it will be the greatest success of our Republic, as we wish it in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u25	Mr Paweł Pudłowski will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to comment on behalf of the club during the second reading on the proposal to make it easier for Polish taxpayers to settle. And here we're all basically talking in one voice. It's just a pity it's been so late, because it probably could've been done two years ago, but it's better late than never. [[10 years ago, too.]] Maybe before that, too. Anyway, as far as this part of the project is concerned, I think we have a match. However, I would like to ask for 3 million self-employed people. In the draft law, you propose that these facilitations should enter into force only one year after the introduction of facilitations for individuals. I believe that the self-employed, who, as I mentioned, are 3 million people in Poland, are citizens who are making more effort to switch to self-employment, self-recognition, often employing other people as part of their business activity, which is carried out on behalf of a natural person. We believe that because they are at greater risk, there are so many of them and they are so important for the Polish economy, they too deserve to be facilitated. How much does it cost? Now if as a natural person I use help and someone prepares for me such an annual report, I must pay about 30 PLN. On the other hand, the preparation of such a report costs almost PLN 100 or more - in case of extensive activity, if you are self-employed, so if you are self-employed there are 3 million, we are talking about PLN 300 million - so we can make it easier for them to function. The change we are talking about is very simple, because it is really just about deleting point 2 in Article. 11. It is easy to accept. Is it possible to introduce it in a systemic way? This is possible because we know even more about self-employed people than about individuals because of the introduction of a single control file. So there are no systemic restrictions. What, then, prevents self - employed persons from being treated in the same way as individuals? Are they a citizen of a worse category for the state? I don't think so. So that, as Modern, we are making this simple amendment and we are very much looking forward to supporting it. I was very pleased to listen to Mr Grzegorz Długi just now, who pointed out the self-employed in other aspects, the point is to give them 2 weeks more, so that I think that the Kukiz15 club will also support this shortening and also the Civic Platform will have no objections. It's all in the hands of the Law and Justice now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u27	The question was asked by 1 person. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a further question on this item on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers, so I'm closing the list. I also do not see Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, and therefore this part of the point will not be. Whether the draftsman of the committee or a representative of the government wants to take the floor on this subject Or not? No. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on income tax on individuals and certain other laws, prints No. 2809 and 2843. The bill proposes to continue the electronicisation of annual tax accounts in personal income tax, while leaving the current form of paper and electronic accounting for itself by the taxpayer. According to the project, the tax services of KAS will prepare an annual tax return, which may be accepted or verified by the taxpayer. At present, this form of settlement works for pensioners and pensioners with the possibility to provide information on the disposal of 1% a tax on the organisation of public benefit. The current project will cover clearing taxpayers individually, together with spouses and single parents already in the 2018 accounts. On the other hand, economic operators will be able to use this form for the 2019 accounts. The annual tax return prepared by KAS will be made available to taxpayers in electronic form, in an application available on the tax portal from 15 February each year after the end of the tax year. The taxpayer will have access to this statement after authentication with a free trusted profile or authorization data. The testimony prepared by the KAS will be available to the taxpayer between 15 February and 30 April: verify and accept without change, improve as a result of the verification carried out, e.g. the amount of revenue costs, to be added to the data that KAS does not have, e.g. tax relief, or reject and settle in other ways, e.g. in the form of a previous one. On the other hand, if the taxpayer fails to act, the statement prepared by the tax authorities will be deemed acceptable. The work of the Committee on Public Finance discussed the dates of the submission of information and settlements. Finally, the version proposed by the government remains. Thus, the deadlines for employers and pension bodies to submit declarations at the end of February will be reduced by the end of January using only electronic form. In addition, the committee accepted a number of legislative amendments tabled by the Legislative Office and adopted two substantive amendments. The amendments adopted concern the modification and clarification of information submitted by the Social Insurance Institution. In conclusion, it should be stressed that the submitted project is a good, modern solution using the possibilities of electronic communication and the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u29	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would just like to say that on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mrs Genowef Tokarska made a written statement. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on public documents (prints 2153 and 2845). Mr Jerzy Polakzek will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs a report on the Government's draft law on public documents, contained in print No 2153. Mr Marshal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, previously referred this draft law to first reading in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Commission considered the same draft at its meetings on 7 and 27 February and 11 and 18 September and asked the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. In order to approximate the solutions contained in the report relating to this project, I would like to draw attention to a few key ones, all the more so because it is a very important project, it can be said in simplification that the so-called. a system for the production of public documents. I would like to remind you that the main aim of this project is to create an effective system for the security of public documents, and practice shows that even the best secured documents without a sealed system are not and cannot be sufficiently protected from counterfeiting, from being used to commit crimes. The need for the regulations provided for in the draft law on public documents is primarily demonstrated by the practice of fraud and other illegal activities carried out by means of falsified documents. On average in Poland, statistically, among the more than one million criminal offences committed annually about 6% are crimes against the credibility of documents, and in this group of economic crimes of this type represent as much as 40%. So we have an urgent need to address these phenomena in this context. And that is the answer to the government presentation that we have worked here during the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which I mentioned. The most desirable documents by criminals are documents which forgery creates an opportunity to extort large amounts of money from the state or create even a new identity of a person, and the causes of such a phenomenon are very many. This is supported primarily by technological progress, greater access to modern devices that help to forge documents, as well as the development of new forms of business, migration movements, but also the lack of systemic solutions related to document security, including so-called. distributed production of public documents, a low level of protection against counterfeiting of certain of these documents, and a lack of unified models of public documents. The government project discussed and worked at the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in a way, I think, comprehensively introduces the necessary solutions for the security of public documents, starting with the design of the document sheet, through its storage, production, verification of authenticity by public officials. Here it is much stronger and will be the establishment of the Polish Securities Printing Works as the entity to which the State orders the implementation of this law in particular. The draft law sets out general standards for the production of public document blanks. These sheets of documents most important for security reasons will just be produced by the previously mentioned single-member company of the Treasury, the subject of which is the production of sheets of documents and highly secured prints. The public documents of category 2 and 3 will be produced by entities fulfilling the requirements laid down in the proposed law and implementing rules issued under that law. There is also a solution contained in this project, which boils down to the model of the online register of all public documents, and this is and will be a source of knowledge for public officials, citizens and officials so that it can be verified correctly whether the document with which they are in contact is authentic or should raise some doubts. And it is also an opportunity to equalize this, you can say in quotes, fight against counterfeiters. The Act also responds to the phenomenon of creating so-called. Collector's documents. This involves introducing documents that resemble original documents in their appearance to the general public. Where such documents are produced, offered and disposed of, appropriate criminal provisions are provided for in that law. The Minister of Administration will be responsible for the process of shaping the security policy of public documents in Poland, sorry, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. In this department, public documents will be properly designed against counterfeiting. There will be an analysis of these frauds, which will also allow for a very rapid response when it comes to breaking down, and I apologize, which will allow for a rapid response in terms of possible breach by counterfeiters of the security system in documents. The Resort together with institutions such as the Internal Security Agency will also be responsible for the control of bodies producing public documents. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the bill goes against the long-standing demands of environments that deal with the security of documents. Proper protection against counterfeiting, reliable methods of verification of their authenticity are important from the point of view of every citizen. They are also important for the certainty of legal trading, for the certainty of economic and financial trading. This law adopted here without a political dispute, which I would like to stress, provides a legal basis for building a public document security system. The amendments that were introduced by the Members at the committee's meeting were, as I would like to stress, some drafting and legislative changes. We have also waited for European case law for a time. It concerned an Austrian case where a similar solution was introduced to the proposed law. As a result, as I would like to stress, I strongly recommend that the High House continue its work and adopt this government bill on public documents. On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen for working together on a good cause. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u31	Thank you for presenting the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Marta Kubiak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u32	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I present to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on public documents, print No 2153. The Public Documents Act sets itself the main objective of creating such safeguards for public documents that would be effective enough to ensure the greatest possible security for the state and its citizens. The lack of a sealed system leads to a number of offences related to the counterfeiting of documents, even the most sensitive ones. Accession to the Schengen area has strengthened the internal security system of the country, but has led to the birth of unknown cross-border crime. The main problem with the current state of affairs is the dispersion of documents in nearly 400 legal acts. It is extremely important to improve the security of public documents that a number of procedures be organised in this area of public activity in order to guarantee the highest standards of protection. In order to achieve maximum benefits, it is necessary to properly establish the order of public documents, to establish design procedures, to establish a list of documents and to lay down rules for their storage. The essence of the project is the establishment of a body responsible for shaping the security policy of public documents. Designed solutions are important for the Republic of Poland and for every citizen. They provide certainty and guarantee the security of the legal area of the country. The proposed project mainly regulates the concept of a public document. The public document within the meaning of the project is only a document secured. The project classified public documents for their validity. The first category concerns the most important documents from the point of view of state security. These are among others. IDs, passports and registrations. Legal and notarial documents have been classified into the same category as a result of recognition of their fundamental importance for State security. The second category will include public documents relevant for reasons of state security, economic and legal security. The third category was covered by documents affecting the safety of economic and legal trade. For each of these categories a minimum protection against counterfeiting has been provided. The project sets out general standards for the production and production of public documents ensuring the safety of production. The most important models for the security of documents, which belong to the first group, will be carried out by a single-member company of the State Treasury, which will guarantee the highest level of security. The granting of identification documents to a company supervised by the State, which is characteristic of most European Union countries, will guarantee the security of the personal data of citizens for whom identification documents are issued. On the other hand, the company's production of secured documents used to carry out various types of transactions will guarantee security in this area as well. The project also lays down standards for the production and production of public documents belonging to the second and third categories. Detailed requirements for the security of production of category 2 and third public document blanks will be laid down by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs after consulting the Head of the Internal Security Agency. The proposed project also presents a security control and guarantee tool, which is the Public Document Register. This relates to the definition of the issuer's obligations as regards the transmission of information on the new model of the document and possible means of verifying its authenticity. Data on public documents and cases of counterfeiting will be collected in the register. Every citizen through such a register available on-line will be able to use the models of the documents in force, together with their description, as well as a description of the possibility of verifying their authenticity. The introduction of such a high level of security for public documents and the reliable control of the authenticity of these documents by public officials will produce positive results and will create a comprehensive tool for the implementation of the State's obligation to protect public documents. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I recommend a bill to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u33	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Lassota will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on public documents in print No 2845. The essence of public documents is the identification of persons, things or the confirmation of the legal status or rights of persons using such a document. To prevent such a document from being falsified, e.g. creating a false identity is an extremely important element of the essence of state security. The functioning of the Schengen State imposes specific additional obligations on the Member States. Thus, a public document is only a document secured, i.e. many other categories of public documents, such as administrative decisions, remain outside the scope of the law. As stated by the applicant in the explanatory memorandum, there are around 250 such documents. But the bill only applies to documents whose designs have been legally defined. The draft law sets out a document security system containing the establishment of their hierarchy, design procedures, requirements for manufacturers and responsibilities of issuing bodies for the creation of a register and rules for storage. This system covers in the first category 31 types of documents and 14 types of service cards for 14 types of services. The second category includes documents relating to economic and legal trade and the third category includes concessions, licences, licences, certificates, certificates, etc. A company which is required to have an up-to-date, certified, supervised by an independent certification body of the safety management system shall be authorised to produce the blanks of public documents of the first category. The Act in this case excludes public procurement law for the commissioning of the production of these blanks. The choice will be made by the issuer, the minister responsible for administration. The government claims that this will ensure effective control of their production by the State. I think that since it is generally known what company it is, the Polish Securities Printing Works, perhaps it would be better to put this company directly, directly or the name of this company into the bill, so that there is no doubt, I suppose there are other intentions, that it is not meant to indicate that again this referral, commissioning the production of documents, these models of documents to their own. After all, under the terms of the public contract it is possible to define such requirements as will meet all the expectations of the contracting authority, including the safety of production of the required safeguards. Such situations are known in the world, such as those in which banknotes are produced in another country, so it is also a security issue and it could be properly identified. Therefore, it seems that it would be better to put it directly, rather than so enigmaticly say: company. Despite these doubts, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, recognising the need to regulate in this very sensitive area of state security, expresses its positive opinion on the draft law on public documents presented by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u35	Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the government draft law on public documents, prints no. 2153 and 2845. From this discussion, it is clear that this law was indeed needed, that it was expected to regulate certain activities related to the production of state documents. This amount of crime against documents, which has actually reached 360 thousand in recent years, is indeed the amount that is causing fear that such things have occurred. Of course, technological progress has made these counterfeit documents increasingly of better quality and it is very often difficult at first glance to distinguish the original document from the counterfeit document. Therefore, there are measures aimed at establishing certain operating and functioning rules for both the production of designs and the security of those documents and their storage. These few points, which are set out in this law, namely the definition of the hierarchy of the importance of public documents depending on their importance and the establishment of their safeguards, are indeed quite important. The fact that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has been seconded, say, to care for all this production and later to preserve and store these documents also seems a reasonable solution. As far as the design procedure is concerned, it is important that public documents that are produced actually have features that also identify them as a public document. The establishment of the Register of Public Documents also seems to be a good solution, because then we will know which of these documents actually have the status of a public document. Defining storage rules - some of the crimes against documents are also accidents when someone gets the original document and places inappropriate information on it, and therefore the issue of security and storage rules is really important. Mr Lassota referred to the issue of production, because it is indeed clear from this draft law that, in principle, there is a company that is likely to produce these documents. We argued this at the committee meeting that it would be good to lay down rules for the valuation of the production of these documents, because we fear that because of the lack of competition, the company can abuse trust and value the production of these documents much more expensive than it would have been due to market conditions. Is it a good thing that this company will produce it, and we won't be able to refer to the form of the tender? However, as far as the principles of the free market are concerned, I believe that certain competition between economic operators on the market should also be allowed in this respect. Even though we have some doubts about this issue, we believe that this law is needed. Therefore, the club Modern will vote in favour of the solutions proposed by the government in this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will present his position. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Posel Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats with understanding and full approval welcomes the long awaited by the authorities of local government, government, law enforcement and justice authorities, as well as ordinary citizens unambiguous, clear, legible and understandable sanctioning of issues that are integral to the marketing of public documents. The draft law on which the Board of Administration and Home Affairs has dealt with is clearly and without any doubt defined the principles of the functioning of the public document security system. It is the security system that includes the design, manufacture, storage and verification of the authenticity of public documents and, consequently, the initiation of changes in the protection of public documents against counterfeiting, based on the scope of both national knowledge and the cooperation with international bodies responsible for the security of public documents. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 2 defines the meaning of concepts such as a public document blank, a public document, a graphic design and a form that have been approved by an eligible body carrying out public tasks. The draft law clearly and in no way raises any doubts is set out in the paragraph. 3 of this Article, the issuer of a public document as a public administration. It shall confer upon that authority the right to choose the model laid down in national law, European Union law or international law. The draft also sets out exactly what constitutes a public document for which it will be particularly applicable to the authorities, giving priority to the judicial authority and specifying the concepts of write-down, discharge, duplicate and repeater. Art. 3 of the draft law expressly obliges the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to publish information on public documents in the Register of Public Documents and requires it to control the manufacturers of public documents. It is noted here that the legislator proposes to establish three categories of public documents depending on their importance for State security. As an example, I would like to point out here: identity cards, passport documents, documents issued to members of diplomatic missions and consular posts, and copies of court orders and judicial references on granting a declaration of enforceability to enforcement titles. Special attention should be paid to the fact that special protection is given to military personal documents of persons covered by military records on the basis of the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, military personal documents issued on the basis of the Act on military service of professional soldiers and identity cards issued on the basis of the Act on military service of professional soldiers, which should be understood very widely. It welcomes the fact that military personal documents, in any form, have been identified as public documents and remain subject to specific legal protection arising directly from the provisions of this Act. At this point, it is impossible not to refer to the wording of the draft of the committee's report on the recognition as public documents of any official legitimacy as set out in paragraph. Article 32 5. High Seym! Today's committee report raises no reservations and doubts about the substance - on the contrary, it meets the expectations, as I have already mentioned, of the public administration, but also, and this is perhaps the most important, it protects public officials and ordinary citizens from all kinds of fraud and fraud, which has led my club to vote in favour of the committee's report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. And you are starting Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill you state that all types of documents issued by various public administrations are in Poland 250. This law uses the concept of the company and sets out some additional conditions which the company must fulfil in order to be able to issue the documents of the first category, while everything indicates that this company is the Polish Securities Printing Works and that this is also your intention to produce these documents. It follows from the provisions contained in the Act that 31 different types of documents and 14 types of business cards, which must also be properly secured, fall within the scope of the first category documents, i.e. those produced by the company. It can be estimated that 1/5 of all documents issued by the public administration fall under category one. Therefore, I would like to ask how many of these documents of category one, these 45 documents, are already produced by PWPW today. I would also like to ask what market share are those documents which are already legally entrusted to the Polish Securities Printing Works, which part of this market is those 250 documents about which you wrote in the justification for the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u41	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u42	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Falsifying documents seems to many of us abstract and distant. To the extent that we do not realize the scale and importance of this problem. However, the statistics quoted by your rapporteur, Jerzy Polkak, are shocking. We're talking about 6% of the crimes that are committed in this way. This distance decreases significantly when it starts to affect us. And unfortunately, when it concerns forgery, for example. documents in economic life, this could mean taking back an unpaid product, a commodity too much money. Therefore, this law, as Mr.Jerzy Meysztowicz said in his presentation of our position, goes against limiting such practices and fighting them. We're all for it. But I have three questions. Firstly, and this has already appeared in the statements of my previous speakers, who is this enigmatic single-member company of the State Treasury? Can you tell us directly who it is? Secondly, the draft law refers to the online public printing system. I would like to ask if this online system will apply to prints of all categories. Will it apply only to category 1 or category 2 and category 3 prints? Who will run this system, how much will it cost and how much will it cost to administer this system? The third question seems to me the easiest. Will the new system introduce additional fees for natural persons and legal persons? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u43	Thank you very much for this question, which closes the list of questions. Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will answer this question and previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you very much for an extremely interesting debate and, above all, for working at the stage of parliamentary work on the drafting of the bill. I answer Mr Mark Wójcik's question. Of 45 documents that are categorized and assigned to category one, currently 90% is already manufactured under supervision or under the jurisdiction of the Polish Securities Printing Works, i.e. after the proposed law has entered into force additionally 10 documents, provided that the PWPW is transferred under the contract, may be produced. I would like to point out that at the moment PWPW is very well prepared, it is about the highest competences of its employees, as well as the machinery park. I answer Mr Pudłowski's question. In fact, a single company of the State Treasury is included in the Act. This is based on the principles of legislative technique. This is an entity that will be individually defined in the Act and subsequently the Minister will entrust the performance of the tasks of the company on the basis of the relevant decision. In principle, it does not fall within the legal regulations of the names of specific entities because they can, for example, be used. change its name, and then it would require a change of law. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Yes, sir, that's right. As far as the Register of Public Documents is concerned, it will cover all three categories listed in the Act, and the Minister will therefore, by means of a regulation, determine the categories of those documents and may later be recorded in the Register of Public Documents, as well as those indications related to the counterfeiting of specific documents, as well as their serial numbers. The Act does not provide for any additional benefits on the part of natural or legal persons for the inclusion of a category of documents in the Register of Public Documents. [[But will it even generate higher loads?]] No, I mean. It's included in the OSR. With regard to natural persons, legal persons do not provide for any burden, but this is a general burden associated with the entry into force of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u45	Thank you so much for your answer. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws (prints No. 2853 and 2868). Mr Marek Wójcik will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the revision of the Act on State Medical Rescue. The first reading of this project took place at a committee meeting, so maybe it is worth to say a little in addition to the work report itself. on the reasons why we need to make this change today. The Act aims to correct a certain error, which was included in the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue of 10 May 2018. That law created a system of units, created a register in which all rescue units that cooperate with the State Medical Rescue should be entered. Such a register shall be kept by voivodships and entities that deal with water rescue, mountain rescue, e.g. Mining rescue, they have to sign in to that register. This type of action is indeed ongoing. Today, WOPR or TOPR and other entities actually enter this register kept by the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, the Act also included two provisions that could have caused very serious problems, if not disaster, in the area of water rescue and in the mountains. Well, there are provisions there, Art. 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 16 - they said that the relevant entities that are involved in mountain rescue and water rescue must... that the authorisation to carry out rescue activities issued by the Ministry of Interior and Administration expires on 31 December 2018. The inclusion of this provision in the Act was not intended and could lead to a situation in which after 1 January 2019 there will simply be no entities in Poland that could be involved in mountain rescue and water rescue. I would like to remind you that when the Act on Water Rescue and Mountain Rescue entered into force - it was the 2011 Act - the entities that carried out water rescue and mountain rescue prior to the entry into force of the Act had 24 months to obtain the permission of the Minister of Interior and Administration to carry out such activities. Getting that consent was really time-consuming. In the case of large WOPRs, these were often applications, which counted at 4,6 thousand. the parties, because these applications contained not only information on the activity itself but also information on the privileges of water rescuers. It was therefore very often the case that this procedure was simply very long. At present, in my opinion and in the opinion of the committee, there is no possibility that this condition, which is provided for by the Act of 10 May 2018, means that it is about re-applying to the Minister for consent and obtaining these consents... There's no real chance of getting that kind of consent again. Moreover, it seems pointless since these entities are still carrying on such activities. Let me remind you that there are only 120 WOPRs in Poland. These are, of course, individuals of different sizes, while imposing an additional obligation on them to obtain consent is simply not intended. Therefore, the Commission's initiative aims to amend these provisions relating to the granting of consent and to bring about a situation in which individuals who obtain entry into the voivodship register of cooperating entities can continue to carry out rescue activities. Here we are giving up this cezure so far designated by the law, with the need to obtain a new entry which would allow the operation after 1 January 2019. High Izbo! This law is, as I mentioned, a law that corrects a mistake, which is why it is important for it to enter into force as soon as possible, so that the situation that is taking place simply corrects it. It is therefore justified to enter into force as soon as possible. Here we propose that we move away from this 14-day vacathio legis, so that the legal situation of those individuals who are involved in mountain and water rescue is simply clear as soon as possible so that they are not in a situation of certain ignorance about what to do, whether or not to try to re-submit these applications. We believe that in this case, the withdrawal from this 14-day vacathio legis is most appropriate, and this is the opinion shared by the committee, such a discussion took place in the committee. In the committee we also introduced some editorial amendments to the original bill, while the sense is the same, i.e. this requirement for re-approval is replaced by this requirement for entry in the register of cooperating entities, to those registers which are kept by voivodships. This will lead to a situation where this entry procedure will be much less complicated. In this respect, we hope that by the end of the year these units will be able to enter and will be able to lead to such a situation that, after 1 January 2019, all entities that have been involved in mountain or water rescue will still be able to carry out these activities. On the committee, all the clubs supported this bill. Thank you so much for that. I would also like to thank you for your involvement on the part of the Legislative Office, because this is the case for committee projects - without the involvement of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, such projects would simply not have been created. In this case, We acted very quickly. We noticed this mistake a few weeks ago, and actually today we have a second reading. We hope that this law will be passed at this meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u47	Thank you very much for the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak from the Law and Justice Club to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u48	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on this draft law. The bill aims to amend the Act of 10 May 2018 amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and certain other laws. In accordance with this proposal, the consent to rescue granted pursuant to Article, respectively. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 18 August 2011 on the safety of persons residing in water areas or Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act of 18 August 2011 on Safety and Rescue in the Mountains and in the Organised Ski Areas is to remain valid provided that an entity authorised to carry out a rescue entry in the relevant register has obtained by 31 December 2018. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska is speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, it is my pleasure to present our position on this project in prints 2853 and 2868. It is a very short project that regulates the records, or actually corrects the errors that were included in the draft Act on State Medical Rescue adopted in May this year, but the absence of this amendment would have disastrous consequences in terms of the safety of our citizens. Its failure to accept such a situation would lead to the fact that on 1 January 2019 there would be none, I repeat: no entity that would be entitled to perform water and mountain rescue tasks. This problem was raised already during the procedure of the Law cited. I would just like to add with regret that this was not the case at the meetings of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs or at the meetings of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Health. It was pointed out that the expected deadline for obtaining appropriate authorisations for such rescue units was absolutely too short, but unfortunately the Ministry was deaf to these suggestions. And this situation was recalled by the members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, calling it a legal bubble of the provisions of the Act on State Medical Rescue in this area. There was also a moment of hesitation at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs concerning further proceeding on the amendment in committee, but here we bow to the rapporteur, Mr Mark Wójcik. He took this on himself, took the initiative to conduct this project, thinking absolutely and exclusively about the safety of citizens, which unfortunately has not been shown or shown by the Ministry before, proposing such provisions and not agreeing to the changes already notified at that time. And let me just remind you that in the Ministry it was then necessary to be aware that the maintenance of these provisions means that from 1 January the entity authorized to carry out mountain and water rescue, as well as the situation in which those who were authorised to carry out mountain or water rescue before 31 December 2018, would again have to undergo the full administrative procedure and have complete evidence to obtain consent to carry out those forms of mountain or water rescue. Today we are doing our utmost to protect the safety of citizens in the mountains and in the water areas. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is absolutely in favour of the proposed changes and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u51	Thank you, Member. Now it is time for the Kukiz club15, but I do not see Mr Bartosz Józwiak or Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. Therefore, we are moving to the next club: the Modern Club, Mr Marek Ruciński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission's draft law amending the Act amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws is only an intervention to correct the error resulting from the haste in working on the Act on State Medical Rescue, which was voted before the holidays. Many times in the Sejm - whether during work in committee or here in this Chamber - we meet with the madness of work and ignoring the voices of experts proposing the right legal solutions. In many cases such law-making results in many errors, legal gaps in important laws for the health safety of citizens. In this case, fortunately, there was still time to correct the error. It is only a pity that once again we had to run the whole legislative procedure to fix it. It is a pity that this is at the expense of draft laws that are waiting for their turn. To conclude: Modern will, of course, vote in favour of this law, but at the same time, on behalf of the whole club, I call for greater care in the process of lawmaking, but also for listening to both the opinions of experts and the Sejm Analysis Offices, which have so far been often ignored. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u54	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to inform you that we will support this Commission's draft amendment of the law, because, as my previous speakers pointed out and in our opinion, this is an obvious action to ensure that the entire rescue system can continue to function. It is a pity, and I repeat this also in favour of my previous speakers, that when the work of the committee was taking place, not so long ago, in May, representatives of the Ministry, the Minister did not want to accept these votes of experts or suggestions from Members. After all, we are to work together on writing records that will serve well. Why can't Members' suggestions of the skeptical option, the opposition, be taken into account and be good? Once again, we have the effect that within four months of intervention, we need to take the whole legislative procedure very quickly in order to ensure that the team of these actions, which are necessary, can continue to function, and we all know that very well. Hence the appeal to the Minister and colleagues: Let us be open, let us not look ill and distrustfully at all those who are not with us, and let us not think that if they are not with us, they are against us. If they're not against us, they're already with us. Let's make a good law together. We'll vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u55	Thank you, sir. In fact, we can all of the opposition agree with this last passage by saying that the opposition is also making good proposals and amendments or projects. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u56	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! As rapporteur for the Commission project, Mr Wójcik has shown - which in this Parliament is rather rare - what mistakes were previously made during the process of this project, and finally the government, the government has understood that it has made a mistake. But as for my previous speaker, who indicated in the conciliatory tone that it was worth leaning over the amendments, over the suggestions that the opposition is making, because we all care about good law, and that is not... This exception is that we do it twice, instead of dealing with things that are extremely important to the country, only because of your maniac stubbornness. There are more cases of such stubbornness, because very often projects from the Committee on Public Finance, the amendments do not find acceptance by the State from the PiS, and then it is repaired, corrected in the Senate, in an identical shape goes back to the Sejm and to this plenary room. My appeal is that you do not doctrinally treat the opposition and all the amendments or all the suggestions that the opposition is talking about without throwing into the basket. The Civic Platform wants to report a project [[♪ The bell ♪]] a new law on inheritance tax and donations, and it will test whether you have pure intentions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u57	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, there were further doubts, which were pointed out by the staff of the Department of Medical Rescue and Defence at the Ministry of Health, which as if showed that there would be a need again for changes in the functioning of other units, not only in the field of water and mountain rescue, but also in cooperation with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. Then we did not get a clear answer, whether such changes, such novels will be needed and there will be further changes, so that the safety of our citizens will not be compromised in any way after 1 January 2019. Are we going to get a clear answer today about what this situation is going to be like? And one more question. I wanted to ask you about the stage, about the register of cooperating entities. At what stage is this register located, and is its functioning in no way threatened and everything is in a timely and appropriate place? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u59	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I accept the information with disbelief - and I would very much ask you to respond to it - as if you were predicting such a delay and the possibility that WOPR and GOPR will not be able to take formal action from next year. I think it's kind of psychic. With all the legislative machinery we're watching, and the rush to introduce a lot of legal regulations, it's for you to forget about WOPR and GOPR... And I say this as a lifeguard licensed to WOPR, also as a person who knows how difficult it is to work and how important it is to work in both cases. So please explain: Why has this change been abandoned? Did you really consciously do so, hoping that these entities would be able to get their consent or not? If not, then what is it? Please explain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u61	I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski to answer these and previous questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards these positions, which were presented on behalf of clubs and circles, and some of the statements made by the requesting Members, these were academic requests related to the law-making process. I think that in our common interest, all Poles, it is that the law that the government prepares and which is later adopted by Parliament should have the best quality and substance and legislative. I interpret and accept your statements as a declaration of in-depth cooperation. That is how I understand Mrs Krystyna Skowronska's statement. For obvious reasons, I cannot address the issue of the inheritance and donation tax law. This will be a separate legislative procedure. As regards Ms Agnieszka-Kołacz Leszczyńska's question about the position of Minister of Health and the registers of the cooperating parties, I will ask my colleagues in the Ministry to reply in writing because this is their jurisdiction. I represent the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and therefore do not have the proper authority to take office on behalf of the Minister of Health. I can only point out that this law, at both the preparation and process stage for the government, has undergone full inter-ministerial arrangements and that all departments have jointly and severally declared their readiness to implement it properly. Mr Paweł Pudłowski asked a question about a certain intention related to transitional provisions, which are subject to amendment in the procedated law relating to the Water Volunteer Rescue and the Mountain Volunteer Rescue Service. It is so, Mr President, that these two institutions have been provided for in the Act since the beginning. The legislative process has also slightly prolonged in the parliamentary work phase, so these two actors have a slightly less time left to obtain possible consent. I would like to assure you that there is no and there was no intention of ignoring both entities, as evidenced by their inclusion in the law which is subject to amendment. We are dealing with a law that modernises our system, which causes so-called. the full responsiveness of this system. The stage of government and parliamentary work really went quite quickly, but we all wanted these very beneficial solutions to ensure that Poles were protected in the situation of their stay in the mountain area and in the water area as soon as possible. It is, of course, that every bill has its shortcomings, but I am very pleased that the High Sejm, thanks to the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, has attempted to improve this important legislative oversight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u63	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, is requesting correction. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u64	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I am asking if you have deliberately compromised the possibility that, in fact, WOPR and GOPR will cease to exist formally. Your answer, in my opinion, should be understood to mean that, since legislative work has been delayed, they will therefore have less time. But there's the Senate. Then why didn't you make that amendment in the Senate? However, I believe that you do not think about the safety of citizens or about the WOPR and GOPR. It's just that the way you're working on it and what you're saying right now is the best proof for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u65	Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, will refer to this correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! If we did not think about the safety of Poles, about the operation of these two specialized government partners in ensuring the safety of Poles, then this law, which is now being amended, would not be prepared and converted by us. Thank you very much. [[But it was Mr Marek Wójcik who caused her to be proceded.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u67	And the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Marek Wójcik. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u68	Thank you very much. I will also take a bit of reference to Mr Pudłowski's statement - I do not take it that the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs has forgotten about WOPR and GOPR. I don't think that's the case. It is simply that someone did not foresee the consequences of the laws that were included in this law, and today we are cleaning it with the law, with the novel that we are proceding. I believe that this situation will simply be clearly explained to the benefit of the WOPRs and GOPRs. I do not like the Minister's translation in turn in that you were hoping that the legislative process would be shorter... [[Oh, yeah, that's the way it's meant to be.]] ...so WOPR and mountain rescue operators will be able to re-acquire their business authorisation. In my view, it is simply pointless to reacquire permission to operate. Even if a register is created, entities shall register in a register kept by the voivods. On the other hand, why apply again, these thousands of pages of various kinds of documents I have spoken of? Often, when these entities are large and have some legal assistance, it is easier to do so, but sometimes they are small entities. So, again forcing these entities to submit applications, to ask the Minister for permission to carry out rescue activities in the mountains or in the water areas, in my opinion, was not intended. But I am glad that you are giving up on this because the solution we have agreed on is a solution that actually leads to the situation that it is enough to register with the voivode and that it will no longer be necessary to ask for permission to operate again. I believe that this law is simply good in this respect. Thank you all for working on this bill, for supporting it. I also thank the staff of the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs, because also thanks to your work you managed to capture this error and lead to the situation that the effects that could have been achieved will simply not be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u69	Thank you very much. And I thank you for doing a good job on this project. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Fund for Self-Government Roads (print No. 2859). Unfortunately, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk is not yet present in the plenary room. Therefore, I'm announcing a five-minute break because we're waiting for him to arrive. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 50 hrs. 11 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. I will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, to present the bill on this item. Minister, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour of presenting on behalf of the government a bill on the Self-Government Road Fund. It is a bill which is expected by local governments. The people I see in this room are mostly aware of the need for support. I hope everyone realises how much support is needed for local roads in Poland. Aside from the discussion today, modern and secure road infrastructure is an important element of the proper functioning and development of the economy. This is beyond discussion. This concerns both the level of national roads as well as the level of local roads. When we expand the grid of national roads, we increase the availability of communication regions of our country, we increase communication opportunities with our neighbours. We are part of the road network of Europe, especially the European Union, but not only. When we talk about a good and efficient communication network, we must remember that local government roads are an excellent complement to this communication grid. In addition to the discussion, it is also the fact that, due to the thinness of the resources available to local governments, the technical state of the roads in the county, municipal roads, roads in the cities on the rights of the county is absolutely unsatisfactory. It cannot be said that the municipalities have so far not acted to improve safety, improve the technical state of the roads, protect the most vulnerable road users. The communes carried out these tasks as far as they could. But we are constantly hearing one recurring demand: local government roads must receive more support from the government, more support from the state in order to modernise, rebuild and build them. And we respond to this request. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, earlier Prime Minister Beata Szydło and parliamentarians of Law and Justice have repeatedly declared: we will build a system of funding which will radically change reality on local roads in a short time, we will respond to the needs of local governments, we will respond to their demands, because today Poles are interested in being able to move safely on local roads, passing them to work, passing them over on matters that affect them every day. And they don't always use or often don't use national roads, they don't use expressways, they don't use highways because they don't have to. Their area of communication activity is limited to local roads. We need to remember this, we need to remember it before and we need to remember it now. I hope that this memory and awareness of this will be accompanied by a public debate which we are already conducting in the final part of today, when we are talking about the project, by presenting it to the High House, hoping for a constructive assessment, for a constructive debate and that the same words you will say in this Parliament will be repeated at local meetings. I appeal to all the parliamentarians who will speak, because it is a duty to speak during the debate on important bill proposals, on every bill, please and I appeal to all of you to repeat this voice, which you will speak from the Parliamentary Speaker's Speaker's Speaker, by going to the election meetings where you support each of us, because this is not some bad thing where we support candidates in the local elections: and from the Law and Justice, and from the Civic Platform, and from the Polish People's Party, and from the Kukiz movement, and from any other political party present or absent in the Sejm. If you are at these meetings, I ask you to repeat those words that you will say from the Parliamentary Speaker, those words that you will say during the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, because I hope that the High House, through the decision of the Marshal and the High House, will direct this project to further work in the Infrastructure Commission. It's extremely important that we say one thing here and outside. On the outside - I mean meetings with voters, I mean meetings with the public, because Members do not necessarily only participate in election meetings. They also organize their permanent activities. Well, local government roads in Poland have a total length of 374 thousand. That's about 88%. public roads. It's public, municipal and district roads. 88% out of 374 thousand. I need to eat my memo here. The results of the audit carried out in 2014 show that 36% of local roads are in poor condition, 35% in unsatisfactory condition, 29% in good and satisfactory condition. In turn, the resources allocated from the state budget in previous years to support initiatives for reconstruction, construction and modernisation of municipal and district roads were insufficient, as evidenced by the fact that in subsequent surveys the demands or expectations of local authorities exceeded more than 100% the possibility of this co-financing. Therefore, taking into account all that I have said, the Council of Ministers hereby submit to the session of the Polish Parliament a draft law on the Fund for Roads of Local Government. This project provides for the creation of a support mechanism for local self-government units investing on public roads. The same Self-Government Road Fund, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has repeatedly stressed, will gather unprecedented measures to finance the actions undertaken by local governments. In 2019 it will be over PLN 6 billion. The task of this fund will be to finance the construction, reconstruction and renovation of district and municipal roads, as well as the construction of bridges located in local roads. In addition, the fund will also carry out the tasks of supporting investments in local roads aimed at significantly increasing our state's defence capabilities. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Fund's funds will mostly come from the state budget, i.e. PLN 1.6 billion per year, and from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, i.e. 1.4 billion a year. There will also be other funding components for the Fund, as we will be talking about in a detailed debate. It is very important that the funds raised by the Fund will also finance investments that will be eligible for support in 2018 under the rules laid down in the current Therefore, the change of this mechanism will take place smoothly, because I would like to remind you that in September recruitment was carried out, selection of applications for the financing of local and district road investments - for the amount of over PLN 1 billion, recruitment carried out by voivodships. And this trial continues. We have responded to the proposals prepared by the local authorities. We didn't want or intended it, we were in favour of not holding back this process, let it continue. It is extremely important that an increase in the level of funding will allow to carry out tasks in municipalities and powiats with lower levels of income, I will not say that poorer, but about much lower incomes. There are municipalities in Poland, as well as districts that have not yet benefited from the support programme. They did not benefit from the fact that the budget was so purely humane that they did not have enough money to make 50% available. own contribution. We assume that funding in such cases will be able to reach up to 80% of the value of the investment. Once again, up to 80% of the value of investments in low-income municipalities, someone would say: in poorer municipalities, but if so, it is not because of their fault. The grant of funding from the fund for municipal and district tasks will take place on a competitive basis. The voivodeships will be responsible for carrying them out. Voivodeships will also evaluate applications for funding. On the basis of the evaluation carried out, a list of tasks recommended for funding from the Fund will be drawn up. These letters will be subject to verification by the Minister of Infrastructure in financial terms. The final list of tasks to be supported will be approved by the President of the Council of Ministers. This right stems from the fact that the President of the Council of Ministers is responsible not only for government policy but also for the entire country. The grant will be granted to qualified applicants on the basis of a contract concluded between the voivodship and the relevant local government unit. The proposed mechanism is aimed primarily at increasing investments on local roads carried out by local self-government units. We provide more funding and provide them with greater stability, and this is statutory stability. What is extremely important is that this mechanism will be a multi-annual mechanism. There are experienced self-government officials in this room. You know how difficult it is to announce a tender in one year, to settle a tender, to implement a project, to obtain appropriate documents to allow a modernised, rebuilt or built way to use and to settle funds from government support in the financial year. The mechanism we are presenting to the High House, the Self-Government Road Fund, will allow [[♪ The bell ♪]] realize projects in a cycle of... Your Marshal, I'd like to ask your permission...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u71	I'm gonna extend it by two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u72	Five minutes, Marshal, please. This is an extremely important bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u73	Well, in a large part of your speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u75	...you didn't present the project at all, Minister, but it was a commentary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u76	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u77	Hence the wasted time, but please - five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u78	Thank you, Marshal, thank you very much. As I said, the fund will be a multi-annual mechanism, I apologise, a mechanism allowing investments to be made over the years. Many investments require more time, several months, sometimes several decades of implementation. It is extremely important that we propose to increase funding for individual financing for investment. Today it was 3 million PLN. We propose an amount of PLN 30 million of funding for one project. This will allow large projects to be carried out, projects connecting municipalities, projects connecting powiats. This will allow the implementation of all devices that protect primarily the least protected road users. This will create a coherent, synchronised, integrated transport system for our country. The fund will also finance works related to the construction of bridge crossings. As so far, the Ministry of Development will carry out recruitments, will conduct a competition for the construction of bridge crossings in local, district and voivodeship roads. The Fund will be the source of funding that will ensure the smooth implementation of these projects. The selection of proposals after their preparation, after obtaining the relevant decisions, of the ZRID will be after prior indication by the Ministry of Development... In the selection of these proposals, recruitment is already ready in the order of applications... The Minister of Infrastructure will accept and qualify for implementation, I apologize, and will lead to implementation. As I said, this draft law is also extremely important in order to ensure stable financing of voivodship, district and municipal roads of defence importance. And here, practically, the funding will be 100%. as regards the implementation of such projects. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposed solutions provide financial support to local governments on an unprecedented scale, which will help especially poorer local authorities, forgotten by previous governments. I am sure that the development of local authorities, the development of their transport infrastructure and the improvement of road safety on local roads lies at the heart of all Poles, lies at the heart of the members of the High House. I hope, I believe, that the project will be supported by the Polish Parliament, that later the bill will be supported by our Senate, that it will be adopted as soon as possible to serve the support of local governments. I'm not gonna waste the time you added to the marshal. Once again, I appeal to all the countries: local governments in Poland - no matter what political color they are - no matter what political sympathies are presented by the rulers, mayors, elders and councillors - are waiting for increased funding of local roads. I ask you very much to support the draft government bill submitted, to vote in favour. And today, Mrs. Marshal, I ask you to hand over the project for further work under the specific procedure of the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u79	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mr Rafał Weber, who will present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our guests! Ladies and gentlemen! Reviewing the bill on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is always a great honor for me. In the case of an opinion on printing No 2859, this privilege is exceptional. It's special because this bill is special. The law under which we create the Self-Government Roads Fund is a milestone in supporting local countries is a milestone in the serious, systematic and concrete support of local governments, local governments and district governments. Those of you who have been parliamentarians for several terms of office, but also those who have been MEPs since 2015, in every conversation with the mayor, president or governor, talk about local roads. In every conversation, the local government stresses that it needs support in terms of investment in infrastructure, both the municipal one and the district one. While in previous years such government support was, with full responsibility as parliamentarians and self-governments, we say that this support was not sufficient that local government officials did not provide advice from the funds they were gathering in municipalities or powiats, with the support they received from previous ministries of infrastructure, renovate, rebuild and build new municipal and district roads on the scale they expected from local communities. And this bill, the bill by the Government of Law and Justice, goes against these expectations. Ladies and gentlemen! The year 2019 - over PLN 6 billion dedicated to renovation, reconstruction and construction of new municipal and district roads. It's historically high support. Such support has never been provided by the Polish government to Polish self-governments. The Minister gave numbers in his speech. I'll do it again, but I'll give you another new one that should prove how much this project is needed. The municipal and district roads are 88% all roads in Poland are more than 370 thousand. km of roads. But on these roads, ladies and gentlemen, there are accidents where people die. The year 2017 is the year in which, fortunately, the number of deaths across the country has fallen below 3,000, while 950 people have lost their lives on municipal and district roads. That's the number that lasts. That is why we need to create a program which in an even faster way will even better support local authorities in renovating and building municipal roads so that they are safe so that they can be safely reached the workplace so that the child can be safely taken to school. It doesn't matter if it's in a big city or a small town or a few hundred people's town. In this project, in particular, the municipalities that are smaller are preferred, which do not generate such high revenues as large cities in the case of their budget. So far, no mechanism has been created that has supported smaller municipalities with lower revenues of up to 80% of the value of the investment. This bill contains it in itself, this law has it in it, so it is worth talking about it and it is worth voting for it. Ladies and gentlemen! Report from NIK 2014 - 36% of municipal and district roads in bad condition, 35% in unsatisfactory condition. I am convinced that the introduction of this mechanism, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The creation of the Self-Government Road Fund will reduce roads that are in a bad and unsatisfactory state, will contribute to the greater security of our local Poland, will contribute to increasing safety in the transport of people, but also goods. The Law and Justice Club will support this government submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u81	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, will present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u82	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The roads dominated the election campaign in the elections to local governments, the campaign that is currently taking place. I will remind you of one of my favorite quotes: 'Untrue is the information given by me on 15 September 2018, during the election rally of the election election committee Law and Justice in Świebodzin, that within one to one year and a half we spend more money on local roads than during the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party within 8 years. Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: A woman's voice.]] [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] This quote confirms the theory that the roads dominated the election campaign. The additional confirmations of this fact are: the Radomski PiS system exposed - it was yesterday's Gazeta Wyborcza, perhaps, the Radomski layout - today's Only these three titles, as well as the big TVN footage, confirm this thesis: the roads dominated the election campaign. And if it hadn't been for the election campaign, the draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund wouldn't have appeared in the High House. Why? Because local roads are important, we have been reminding the government, the Government of Law and Justice, every year since 2015, preparing amendments to increase expenditure on the reconstruction of local roads. Every year we proposed: support our amendment. And it never happened. This amendment has always been rejected. That means today you're dressed as an ornament and you're calling. What are the facts? For eight years... Minister, you should know this data because you're an infrastructure specialist -- some people think you are. 2647 million in 8 years - a reserve of general subsidies, these are expenses that have escaped those who prepared the data to Prime Minister Morawiecki. That money went to local government roads. There were various programs, once we removed dangerous places, rebuilt sections of roads with bridges, but always the joint committee of government and government set priorities. We spent 2647 million in eight years. And it's worth 5400 million. What's the sum? That's over 8 billion. Even if you want to spend next year - as I wish you, but we will talk about the details at committee meetings - 6 billion, it will not be more than the sum of the sketches or the amounts spent on the schetins and the provision of general subsidies, because this value exceeds 8 billion. I'd like you to bargain with Prime Minister Morawiecki. We're gonna be working on this bill for a while. Maybe you can top that size. The roads dominated the election campaign. We don't want to bid, we don't want to give the data except for the data that came from you. That's the answer to my interpellation. Minister Gwałek, then Deputy Minister, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, today I think he is no longer Deputy Minister of National Defence, answered. It was created thanks to the program of reconstruction of local roads 14 800 km of good, reinforced local roads. And that's the fact, that's the truth. $1,000. km was created on green ground, where there was no previous [[♪ The bell ♪]] No communication routes. And you guys are coming in today and you're trying to tell us and the public that you're the only ones who've diagnosed this problem? This is falsehood and hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u83	Mr Łukasz Rzepecki from Kukiz.15 will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u84	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a certain déjà vu regarding the title of this project, the general assumption of this project. I have a question for my friends in Law and Justice, do they remember July last year, when they also presented it so dignifiedly... Then Mr Dolata, today he is not in the plenary room... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No more?]] ...he said he was honored to present a bill designed to raise fuel prices by 20 gr. Remember? There were also assurances, also was the Self-Government Road Fund. Then I, on behalf of the citizens, as the only member of your group, opposed this project. As a result, President Jarosław Kaczyński threw him in the trash. That's when you assured me that you wouldn't be looking for other methods, ways to build roads, you wouldn't reach into citizens' pockets. What do we got today? Today is another bill to put your hands in citizens' pockets. On the way there was an electromobility bill in which you also did it, you raised fuel prices this time by 10 gr per litre. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, you assured me that the money from the so-called. the issue fee, which introduced an increase in fuel prices of 10 gr per litre, will go to electric cars, to fight smog, to improve air quality. You're not saying that today, you're already denying it today. Today you want to build roads. First of all, you want to campaign for law and justice for your citizens' money. Back then, a year ago, you were lying when you said you weren't gonna raise fuel prices. Courtesy of President Jarosław Kaczyński, thanks to the rebellion of public opinion, Poles and Poles, it was not, you withdrew. A few months ago, you voted for a 10 gr increase in fuel prices, and this amount of 1,400 million PLN was added to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. What are you doing now? Money for electric cars, money for fighting smog you're moving to build roads and bridges. Then you fooled Poles and today you also act at the expense of drivers, citizens, at the expense of all of us. You want to tell Poles and Poles that you do not campaign for local law and justice for their money. You do, you have to admit you do. That is why we as Kukiz.15 speak clearly and clearly: enough spoiling of Poles, enough looting of drivers, enough hitting them in their pockets. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this bill is concerned, the contributions from the Treasury companies are 7.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean? It means that companies will shift funds from their own profits in order to provide this bill with funding. What does that mean? This means another real increase in fuel prices. According to analysts, an increase of PLN 6 per 1l may already occur in 2019. As you know, 6 PLN for 1l - today we already have a huge sum of more than 5 PLN - it will be lethal for drivers, for industry, it will be lethal for the whole industry. We as Kukiz.15 responsiblely say: enough spoiling of Poles, enough hitting on the citizen's pocket. We want to lower the fuel price, which is why a few weeks ago we filed our bill to eliminate the fuel levy. And what, ladies and gentlemen? She's stuck in the freezer. She's not here. You don't want to lower the fuel price. All you want is... Here you gestulate, I see, glad that you are taking money from ordinary Poles and Poles. That's why we oppose this bill. We think you lied a few times about the previous laws. This is the essence of those laws. That's why we think money should... Road construction, bridges are needed as much as possible, self-governments need it, but it should be financed by other means, for example through funds obtained from the liquidation of labour offices. There's billions of gold in there, and that money could be [[♪ The bell ♪]] developed for these purposes. Today we have low unemployment. Why, then, is there a job that is kept fictitious at work offices? But don't get the money out of a regular citizen's pocket, ordinary drivers. That is why we as Kukiz.15 apply for rejection at first reading of the Government's draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund, contained in print No. 2859. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u85	Thank you. Please speak on behalf of Mr Mirosław Suchon's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u86	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on the Fund for Local Roads. Ladies and gentlemen! North bypass of Krakow - PLN 100 million, eastern ring road of Warsaw - PLN 90 million, National road no. Ladies and gentlemen! Is anyone in the world building roads? That expensive? [[Applause]] No. The most expensive roads in Europe, the most expensive roads in the world are built in Poland and are built by Minister Adamczyk. 5.5 zlotys at gas stations. [[Applause]] Give it up, Mr. Minister. Give it up. 5.5 PLN at gas stations - that's how much gas costs. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Question: "Could it be cheaper?" It could be if Law and Justice didn't introduce a fee that was theoretically supposed to go to thermomodernization and electric cars. Where's he gonna go? Well, let me explain. One last thing: spending on self-government roads. The multi-annual investment plan foresees that in 2016 800 million PLN will be allocated to roads, in 2017 - 1 billion PLN, in 2018 and 2019.1100 million PLN. What did Law and Justice do? It's reduced those amounts. In 2017, it was supposed to be 1 billion, it was 800 million, in 2018 it was supposed to be 1100 million, it was reduced to 800 million PLN. This is what the Prime Minister's lies about the amount of expenses are all about. Minister! I am surprised that you come here so calmly and tell us about these local roads, about which we absolutely agree that investment programmes, government, budget programs, supporting local governments should exist, should work, should function, but the state for three years of its governments these funds simply erased, so nothing else can be said about this programme as it is merely an electoral sausage. Given the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki, I apologize for the lies of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is the only Prime Minister of the Republic to whom the court has ordered an apology for lying, this is merely adding oil to the fire. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] I must say that the bill itself is, I would say, strongly, but it is highly questionable. It seems that the main objective is to equip their colleagues in local governments with instruments that could lead to an increase in their popularity. What am I talking about? Well, the draft law contains absolutely non-transparent rules for the distribution of funds between voivodships, powiats and municipalities. This will be set out in the regulation, but the guidelines for this regulation are so generalized in the law that really a horse with a row of who will be able to say today, how to which voivodships, to which local governments these funds will go. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Where the PiS wins the election.]] Yeah, where the PiS... Well, you don't know that. According to the provisions of this law, final decisions are taken by the Prime Minister, who can change the lists prepared, can modify them, add new tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! When I read this article, I thought there was only one article missing about the coronation. Really. If there is an administrative procedure leading to the selection of the best projects, because I understand these records, then why at the very end equip one man with such royal powers that he can now change everything, move it, cancel it and change the list completely? What is this, where do we live? Is this a single-member kingdom, or is it a country in which there is a democratic, administrative procedure, on the basis of objective criteria setting out the best and most priority tasks? It's not right. Another thing that hasn't been said yet. 500 million zlotys you want to train from the state budget from defence tasks. [[Scandal.]] This is once again, when the Law and Justice, which governs this defence, drains our state's defence budget. [[Yes, sir.]] In addition, the tasks will be carried out in an extremely non-transparent way. A secret list that will not be publicly available will absolutely not allow us to verify where, for what purpose these measures have gone. And let me remind you that a few months ago, we were here in the Sejm trying to amend the Public Road Act. This amendment also provided for a financing formula for roads of defence importance. And there you have trained this defence budget for PLN 240 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You claimed from this speaker and at committee meetings that this 240 million would be enough. So I'm asking you when you lied: when we were investigating that bill, or today, when you're draining the defense budget for another PLN 0.5 billion a year. This depletion will be absolutely visible. This should all go to defense, not to roads, not to something that stays in cement. It's supposed to be other funds. And the last, if I may, your marshal, is literally three sentences. PLN 1400 million from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a legislative fraud mechanism. I'm just saying it. A few months ago, you adopted a law providing revenues to the national fund in the same amount to cover thermomodernisation expenses. Today, the same amount comes out of this fund to finance the local road construction project. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u88	You do not have the courage to stand here and tell this to Poles, and to carry out a bill through Parliament, which will be clear, simple, just such tricks you try to deceive society.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u89	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u90	Of course, this bill should be rejected for all these reasons, your marshal, and given the importance of this case, namely the construction of local roads, we will not do so... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...and we'll see what shape she'll have after she's on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u91	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, please speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u92	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are proceeding today at the first reading of the Government's draft law on the Fund for Local Roads. Listening to Minister Weber's speech, it was possible to get the impression that we were just standing on the threshold and opening a new stage - a new stage in a virgin area where nothing was happening. No, it's not. Minister, this is not a special bill. I'm saying this as a self-government officer with a 25-year internship. [[Applause]] since 1990, at the level of the gminas: three terms in the district and two - the second unfinished - in the voivodship. It's just a continuation. And how beautiful it would be in this country if we hadn't crossed out one another - because everyone would be once and how we would feel then - and they would have built on the foundations of better, worse, like they were then possible to do. That's what locals expect. Minister, the political colours of the local government. After all, the municipality in the municipality and in the county must carry out these tasks to which it is called. Now a local government campaign is being created at central level. Who, as you recall, at the central level was interested in local government elections in the '90s? People have to choose the ones they trust. [[Applause]] And now you want to control this, just as you control the voivodship with funding at the moment of specific road tasks: 100 m, 200 m, 500 m - where your candidates are. And you're telling us to go in the field and tell the local government what we're going to say here in this courtroom. I've always done that. I've participated seven times in a local government campaign. Coming through, Minister, come on. There is a need for help for local governments, but clear, legible and without political color, as saturated with one colour as you show it. We are talking about sources of funding - well, the law provides for sources of funding and that is the basis. Because if we're making a plan, we want it to work for years, we're gonna secure the sources of funding. But the sources of funding have already been mentioned by my previous speakers, Mr Kukiz spoke. National environmental fund, issue fee, etc. - Minister, you want to build roads for our money, for drivers' money, and say it's the PiS that gives it to local governments. How can you do that? [[Applause]] Minister! One of the sources from which you want to take money is the State Forest Forests Forests. And remember what that upheaval you raised in 2015 was about. Isn't it about the state forest budget and the resources from there? What were the amounts needed at the time? How much was it? Let's move on, Minister. way of allocating and allocating funds: in principle, local authorities will apply for funding from the Fund in competitions. What does that mean, basically? What my predecessors pointed out. How can you do that? We believe that we need to work on this project, its purpose and its idea. But if that's what you're predicting and predicting, then why didn't this project come out a year ago, six months ago, just three weeks before the municipal election? Or maybe it's like talking about the people who run? There are ten of them on stage. One says what he's gonna do, two and three says, and the tenth thinks, "What am I gonna say when it's my turn?" They'll tell you everything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So he says: And I promise you that I am able to promise you more than all those who have spoken before me are able to do together. [[Applause]] We'll vote it out. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u93	Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? Only after the questions, Minister. Wait a minute. I'm asking the people who want to ask you another question about signing up. We begin with Mr Richard Galla, a non-associated Member. Question time - 2 minutes. Once you have entered the Members who are standing here on the list of people who want to ask a question on this item of the agenda of the Sejm, I will close this list. Please, sir, you are beginning to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u94	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Minister is already smiling. Minister, these really are going to be very substantive questions. I'm not hiding that any funds for the construction of local roads, as you call it, are very important. However, I have a question because in the draft of this law you are talking about local roads, and in fact you are indicating only a part, i.e. self-government, municipal, district and possibly bridges, viaducts in voivodeship roads. What is the reason - if you might ask - that there are no voivodship roads there? My second question, Minister, concerns the sources of funding, the origin of the funds of the local road construction fund, i.e. the state budget in the part of the Minister for National Defence, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the State Forests. Incidentally, I remember today how there was a big argument when the previous government proposed to shave a little bit of money from the State Forests budget and direct it to the construction and modernisation of local roads. It's like it's happening all over again today, so I think this idea was a good idea. On the other hand, I would ask you to give me a closer look at the way these funds are used. Will they continue to be marked under the Local Roads Fund? That is, if the municipality makes an application, it will have to justify why it is applying for funds that come from the state budget, part of the Ministry of National Defence, and prove that the road is important for defence reasons or otherwise. What will be the way in which these requests for funds applied for by local authorities will be assessed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u95	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u96	Minister! Why in the bill, in the explanatory memorandum, did you skip the results of the National Road Redevelopment Program? It was $15,000. km of roads. In the Opolskie voivodship itself it was 531 km of roads, in such a small voivodship. If you hadn't deleted the data, you'd have left it there, then the Prime Minister wouldn't have had to lie, because he would have known that roads were being built and on what scale. That's the first question. The second question is why not voivodship roads. This is very important, because if we look at the budgets of voivodships, their revenue, it will turn out that these budgets are smaller than the budgets of voivodship cities. Another case is where you get your money. Is it true that the tribute of the State Forests will take a third of their profit? Exactly a third of the profit. This is the result of the data relating to the State Forests, which tells us what their financial result is. Next thing you know, you're gonna set up a completely national environmental fund. This does not close: if it is to give to clean air and to give to roads, it is no longer intended to accomplish other statutory objectives. Please answer the question of why. You didn't rip off the Sports Totalizator. After all, ladies and gentlemen, people on the municipal roads are Nordic walking and cycling. According to such logic, funds should not be raised for such a serious fund. It's some kind of Yano money-sharing thing. The various spheres of the functioning of the state are devastated by taking money in a Janosik way to build this budget. It seems that this is the weakest part of this program - just this compilation, which is surprisingly strange. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u97	Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. I don't see your MP, so we're moving on to the next one. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u98	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund are concrete support for local authorities in the construction and modernisation of local roads. This is the real support for which both local governments and residents of our communities have been expecting for years: cities, municipalities, powiats and voivodships. In previous years, our predecessors had little regard for local roads. An example can be Małopolska. Only in the last 2 and 3 years have local roads destroyed e.g. After the floods in 2010, they are repaired and financed by the current Government of Law and Justice. [[Bullshit!]] The Law and Justice Government only spent over PLN 1400 million on the renovation of local roads in 2018. [[That's not true!]] The 2019 plan foresees that we will spend over PLN 6 billion on local roads, and by 2020 the government plans to spend PLN 36 billion on local roads. This is certainly another good change, thanks to which it will be safe and comfortable and which will benefit all Poles regardless of political color. Minister! Under this fund, local authorities will be able to apply for the financing of the so-called construction. Bypasses, bypasses, which - as in the case of Myślenice, my city - would open new opportunities for building a single-family and economic commune in addition to ordering and lightening traffic in the city centre? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u99	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In these really semi-truths, lies which Law and Justice regard as a success, I think, I am convinced of this, Polish self-government, local, district, communal will never believe. Minister, how can you lie through the local government, which shows that the great success of the rule of law and justice will be - because it is not yet - the construction of 46 km of municipal roads, district roads in the Podlasie voivodship? The Civic Platform and the PSL for their governments built 15 thousand in the country. km of local roads, so-called. Schematics. By simply comparing these sizes... You're saying it's going to be a great success. It's a big bullshit, and it's just a lie they won't be fooled by self-government as well as residents. You really need to have a lot of shoes in you to emphasize, for example. It's 500 meters in diameter. In recent months, in the Podlasie Voivodeship, the 500 m long communal road was noisyly opened by the Deputy Minister of Interior of Mr Jarosław Zieliński. This is the greatest success, so to speak, in the construction of local roads. This is embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if you're ashamed to tell such things. I have a question for the Minister. When we're done with this Christmas dance. Welcome to the construction variant of the S16 road on the section [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ełk-Knyszyn? Is the Ministry finally considering a final position on this matter? When will the section of the S16 road in Podlaskie Voivodeship be used so often? When is the change in the continuous course of Via Baltica? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u101	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Self-Government Road Fund Act is a milestone in improving the state of local roads: municipal and district roads. As a long-term self-government officer, I can say that this is an extremely expected, you would say, from the beginning of the existence of self-governments, a very hopeful project. 88% public roads, which we move on a daily basis, are county and communal roads, largely of poor surface condition. Despite the existing development programmes of these roads, the scale of funding has always been poor. Recently, the demand for resources was much higher than the available limits. Other constraints experienced by local governments include: low limits on the amount of funding, reduction in the number of tasks that could be carried out by the municipality or district in a given year, too low a percentage of funding, which made it difficult for poorer local authorities to carry out such investments, and annual planning. But my question is about the cost of bridge tasks. Local government units will always be able to receive funding of 80% the cost of carrying out the task and it is not possible to obtain additional funds from the State budget and the budget of the European Union. Will the remaining 20%, when the bridge connection between the two municipalities leads to the municipal roads, rest entirely on the shoulders of these two municipalities, or will it be possible to involve the resources of local governments of other levels - the district and the voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u103	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You called on us to speak at our election-supporting meetings what we said here, to talk about how we're building roads. I accept this appeal. I promise that at every meeting I will talk about how many roads the Civic Platform and PSL have built during our governments, how good these programs have been and how we have developed them. But I also have a request for you to appeal to your boss, Prime Minister Morawiecki, to prepare for the next meetings and not to lie about the correct quantities. And to make it easier, I'm gonna ask the Minister to answer in writing, because it's, I think, easy to do, every voivode has that kind of statistics. I ask for a very detailed list of how many kilometers it is, what number of roads it is and what money has been used during the implementation of the so-called. Schetynówek in every voivodship. I think this material will be good for me, but above all for the Prime Minister. And I'm asking you to make sure that information gets to me. Because I once asked Minister Smolinski to make such a comparison comparing the apartment for young people with the new housing+ programme, and such a comparison never occurred to me. Minister Smolinski is no longer here, which is why I am appealing to you, too, to make sure that information is received. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u105	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The fact that state aid is needed for the renovation of local roads is obvious and no one doubts that this is an important task. I would like to remind you that the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL during the years of government spent enormous resources every year on the renovation of local roads. Large-scale schetines were implemented. The PiS government, on the other hand, has shown absolutely no interest in assisting local authorities in the renovation of local roads over the past three years. Our amendments to the state budget were rejected each year. Why, Minister, did you vote against the amendments which concerned financial support from the state budget and which were intended to improve the state of the local roads for which you are responsible? I'd like you to answer that today. Today, the great words of the Minister, great help to local governments. But when you go into detail, it looks paler and paler. Just look at the sources of funding. The budget of the Ministry of National Defence. Already in 2017, funds were allocated from this budget for various purposes, least for improving weapons, after all, even the helmets from the 1970s are being renovated. Second source - National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, fuel fee. I think there's been a lot of talk about it, and I'm not going to develop it. State Forests. Do you know the state of the forest roads after excessive logging of trees and heavy equipment? Of course, these roads are not being repaired at present. Next - companies of the Treasury. And where is the support of the state budget, which is supposed to be so high that it can finance all expenses? And last question: How will the local government's proposals be qualified according to what criteria? To what extent will the criterion of political sympathy be taken into account? After all, it is no secret and it is clearly heard at pre-election meetings that political sympathies are very important that the money will be given to those local governments that accept a good change, during these meetings it is clearly announced. And how will it be with local governments that want to rebuild roads that have other political sympathies or are they even apolitical? After all, the heads of the PiS, and the President, and the Prime Minister, do not hide how important the amount of funding will be depending on these sympathies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, which concerns measures directed to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, so far devoted to protection against smog or to meeting the challenges that Prime Minister Morawiecki has posed to this government. I'm thinking about a plan of 1 million electric cars, but also 1,000. electric buses per year, and all of this is due to happen by 2025. Let me just mention that we were going to be and are going to be part of the transport revolution in the world and become a pioneer and leader of electromobility. That's why my questions are here. First of all, at what stage are we coming to these planned sizes as Poland? But will not taking funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and sending them to the Fund for Self-Government Roads become an excuse and justification in a moment when we will ask about the state of implementation or lack of fulfillment of these challenges presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As Vice-Marshal Mazowsze responsible for infrastructure until recently I would be delighted with the additional funds for roads. [[Voice from the room:...no]] Yeah, but it's self-government roads, then the money stays in the voivodship. Roads have no political colors, roads are simply necessary, because, as you said, they connect municipalities, districts, generally connect people. But as a member of the Radom land, I cannot keep silent about the Radom arrangement that all the media are talking about. This applies to the S12 road, which does not connect, but now divides people. It's under your guidance that the S12 route is meant to be in the vicinity of Radom. I don't know if it's the final run or if it's gonna be changed. So what kind of mechanism do you want to put in place so that such situations do not happen again? Who will decide - because here really political colors can play a major role in the implementation of the investment - whether or not a given road will receive funding? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u111	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u112	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When it comes to local roads, it is important to guarantee stable funding. What the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party carried out, i.e. the programme of reconstruction of local roads, was based on stable financing. We had funds coming directly from the budget. And that's the cloud of the matter. The draft law provides for several sources, at least several of which may be questionable sources. Why would it be guaranteed that State Treasury companies, where the State Treasury owns all shares, will make a profit? Today we are forecasting this, today we are on a wave of economic growth. And if the crisis comes, where will you get the money? These companies won't have any money. Robbing the national environmental fund from the money that was to be used to fight smog is also questionable. We just had a committee meeting. You wanted to use funds from the State Forests to build houses. The resistance of this environment caused this project to fall. This could happen again. And finally, the question. Reserve with general subsidy. It is also a stable source of funding for local road tasks from the budget. [[Voice from the room: Stay.]] That's exactly what my question is. I want it to sound here, from the Seymour's bleachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the government doesn't dare take that money away from local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One Member of the Law and Justice has asked this question: Why is this repair, these renovations of local roads taking so long? I must say that this question should be addressed to the Minister, and since the Member of Law and Justice has not asked this question, I will ask it. Well, Minister, why - despite the fact that quite high resources were foreseen in the local government funding programme for 2016 and 2019, for 2017 even PLN 1 billion, for 2018 PLN 1100 million - you as Minister allowed that these funds in the state budget were planned at a much lower level: for 2017 - only PLN 800 million, as for 2018, which is PLN 200 million and PLN 300 million less, respectively? Question: "How many kilometres of local roads were not built in municipalities, districts were not renovated because of the Ministry's negligence, which allowed this scandalous situation, namely the reduction of pre-planned expenditure on local government roads?" It is also about those roads that are after the flood. Minister, I understand that you are not going to give the number of kilometers now, but I would ask you to answer this question in writing: How many kilometers of local roads have not been built, has it not been repaired by the fact that you have abandoned this 300 million PLN? Second question. I wanted to ask you about the funding from the State Forests, about the 2%. State Forests finance projects, construction of local roads on an ongoing basis. How badly will these tasks be affected because the funds will go to the central budget so that the Minister, the Prime Minister and the Government can boast about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing. Why do you want to indebt Poles to another 3 billion PLN, because that is the limit...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u116	...possibly debt under this fund, which is to increase the debt of Poles just in such a way that you are designing a fund that will be a purely propaganda fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u117	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The fund referred to in the proposed act collects funds not only for construction and reconstruction, renovation of district roads, municipal roads, but also for voivodeship roads, district roads, municipal roads of defence importance. Minister! Since the beginning of our term of office we have talked about insufficient amount, about 800 million PLN for reconstruction of municipal and district roads. This was, among others, the case. one of the themes of one of the Parliamentary Group meetings. solving problems of residents of the Polish county-dominant region. At the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure in Chojnice and Starogard Gdańsk we also talked about the amount of PLN 1.1 billion. Today we know that in the next six years, we will spend around 6 billion a year on these roads, with the possibility of being co-financed up to 80%. This is very good news for residents of Poland as well as for residents of less prosperous communities. In the current 50-50 programme, as shown in the example of 2016, in the Pomeranian Voivodeship there was enough money for about 30% of the investment. The proposed law combines 6 billion a year, so today we will say that there is almost 400 million per voivodeship per year. Minister! In a relatively short time, the state of the communal roads, thanks to this fund will definitely improve, while the state of the voivodship roads in the area Polish is diametrically different, also within one voivodship, e.g. Pomeranian Voivodship. Let me remind you that the road manager is the Marshal's office. In the south-western part of Pomeranian Voivodeship this condition is fatal. At the meeting of the team on 28 February 2018, at which the director of the management of the voivodship roads was present, he said that there were no plans to rebuild such voivodship roads as roads No 235, 212, 201, 203, 208, 237. Minister! voivodship road 201 connects two national roads, leads from Barkowo to Black. In Black at completion is the construction of the Rosomak repair hall within [[♪ The bell ♪]] service and repair center in the military complex. voivodship road 201 has no defensive significance. Minister! What's the chance this road could have that meaning? I ask, because for many years the inhabitants will have no hope of repairing this road, and I will remind you that it is in terrible condition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u120	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Minister, nothing new that you haven't said here today. The draft law is a simple, natural continuation of actions. There wasn't a flood before you, as you think, as you're trying to manipulate social opinion. You're not starting anything over. I should say, actually, I commend you: it is good that you are continuing the program of reconstruction and modernization of local roads, wonderful that you are doing this. But do you do it and do it? Because you're not doing anything. Get to work, people will see that you can actually do something. [[Voice from the room: We keep our word.]] This bill is the result of the Radom deal. It was your P.R.s who told you to throw him in the plenary room, because now you're gonna be happy to share a lot of money. As you can see, not so great at all, because the Civic Platform has performed and would continue to implement this program, but you come and destroy everything. You only want to warm up in the glow of those projects that are initiated by the Platform and PSL government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Since 2007, I have lobbied behind the ring road of my hometown, Wałcza, and how glad I was that we signed the contract for its implementation a month before you took over, because it will be put into service in June, only your deputy governor warms up beautifully in front of it, of course, by carting out all those who really cared about it, who supervised its construction, who built it. This is irrelevant because you may not like Paul Suski, but pay respect to the voters who voted for me. That's what they deserve, because they're the ones who've been working for this ring road for decades. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That's basically how you're gonna be, Minister, choosing projects in competitions, basically from competitions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] After being careful, for your own. That's how it's gonna look. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u121	Thank you very much. Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, congratulations to the Minister. He joined the electoral staff of Law and Justice, hence the congratulations. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Minister! One thing I would like to say is that we should not use the words: ladies, we will finance, we will renovate. You don't have any money. You may kindly ask the High House to agree to allow you to transfer this money for different purposes. Don't tell me you're doing this because it's just cheating. You have no money, no government has no money. So it's not your money, it's your money taken. You say all the locals are waiting for this money. Okay, everybody's waiting. Who's gonna get it? It is clear from the statements of the Law and Justice politicians who will get it. Where you win the election, that's where the source of the money will be directed. So they're expecting that money, but they're not sure they're gonna get it. The question is: If these roads are repaired, will they also change the course of these local roads? Because if it turns out that every road has to go through the parcels belonging to someone connected with the Law and Justice, we will have the most twisted roads in Europe. [[Applause]] Please don't do this, because I'm afraid even the S16 road will soon lose its status as a high-speed road, because it will have so many turns that you will simply have to introduce speed limits. Minister! There was a request from Mrs Sibińska from the Civic Platform. I will also ask that this information gets to me in writing, because there is a discrepancy as to the false information given by the Prime Minister, but there is also information in other media about the fact that nothing happened at all and that there are probably no local roads at all. So I would very much ask for this information in writing. And asking it to appear before the election, Minister, because if this data is to appear after the election, it will be unfortunate. As far as the last thing is concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which I would like to mention, I would like to draw your attention to: if you want to pluck further companies of the State Treasury from 7.5% I'm asking you what's gonna happen if this company...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u123	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u124	...work 8% And you're gonna take 7.5% of it. ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How much arrogance it takes to say what you said at the beginning of your speech. It was a speech bordering on... and I'm not going to use that word because of the seriousness of this House. Well, you had the audacity to teach Members how to behave in meetings with voters. And yet it is enough to quote, perhaps paraphrase, the words of your idol former Prime Minister Szydło: it is enough not to lie. [[Voice from the hall: And not steal.]] Do you hear me, Minister? He can't hear, he'll keep lying. The Minister, of course. [[Applause]] After all, this exposure to the embarrassment of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who probably in his naivety, or perhaps a revelation of some mental blindness, believed in the nonsense you presented to him and said that there were no roads or bridges. Law and Justice officials always say: the Government of Law and Justice. It is not the Polish Government, it is the Government of Law and Justice. And it's really lucky, because I would be ashamed if my Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of my country, behaved this way. PiS is glad the court didn't order an apology. But after all, a culturally-bred man, if he's lying, and the court said that the Prime Minister was lying, based on your records... didn't apologize. Well, it turns out that he is not only a liar but also a rude man. I have a question for the Minister: Why did you do this to Prime Minister Morawiecki? What was the reason you stood him up like that? After all, you should be dismissed from such behavior. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did you do that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u127	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Richard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u128	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have been a local governmentman for many years and I would like, Minister, to thank you for this program because the local government is waiting for it. I'm just surprised why so many unpleasantness, so much anger, so much hatred... [[Three years ago, three years ago. And you're nothing.]] ...states from the Civic Platform to local communities. After all, this program is intended to serve people, to serve the local community. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It was you who took their money.]] I wonder why we should all vote in favour of this program. I'm just worried if we have enough companies to build these roads, because, as we know, in the days of the Civic Platform of the company that built the highways, the road-building companies broke down. It happened all over the world that, with such investments, companies were developing, and in Poland, somehow they were failing. I wonder what you'd say about that. [[Now they're going down, now they're going down.]] I am glad that such towns in my district as Turk, Konin, Kawęczyn, Przykona will be able to benefit from this program. They will be able to, because finally there is a program that allows for 80% funding for the construction of local roads. Minister, I would like to ask whether these projects will be able to combine counties, voivodships and municipalities, whether there is a possibility, if need be, of large projects, connecting many roads and exhausting needs of society [[♪ The bell ♪]] local. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think the PiS state must hate people very much because you have no respect for their accomplishments either. You've been basing your entire propaganda on a lie for three years. Everything you say is one lie and one fraud. Two months ago, when the issue fee was introduced by you guys, you said it was going to be thermo-modernized and electric cars. I don't know if the Minister of Energy knows you're taking $1,400 million a year from him. [[Applause]] from that fee you brought in. You say you're putting in a program and giving more money for local roads, but the truth is completely different. It is Minister Adamczyk and the entire government for 3 years voting for the local road construction programme - not 1 billion PLN, 1,100 million, 1300 million PLN, but 800 million PLN. That's the reality. No more, just less. Minister Grabarczyk showed here: for local roads 8 billion PLN. What I'm trying to say is that that's not all, because there was definitely more money. After all, from European funds at regional level to local roads there were over PLN 5 billion. [[Applause]] Only in Małopolska we supported over PLN 350 million, and the value of 64 tasks carried out by European funds under local roads exceeded PLN 620 million. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] On the scale of the country it was about PLN 10 billion. This should be added because it shows how high the bar has been suspended. Today you have not only lost PLN 100 billion from European funds - you can't even dream of passing some percentage of this money on local roads, because how to pass it on when they just aren't there - but you can't even allocate funds, find funds in the state budget to keep [[♪ The bell ♪]] the level that was. And that's your shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the first words to self-government: dear self-government, no one will give you as much as Prime Minister Morawiecki will promise you, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and today, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. Minister, you are unbelievable in this justification you have made. Here we have to talk about facts, and the facts are as follows. In 2017, you removed 200 million PLN. Let me remind you, in August, local government officials had information that you had 1 billion PLN. That's what they've been doing. Following the decision of the Council of Ministers in December, it turned out that in 2018 there was 800 million. In August there were still 1,100 million, and after the decision of the Council of Ministers in December it turned out to be 800 million. As a result, 300 million were removed. [[Added 500.]] The assurances you've been quoting here that it's going to be $1,400 million, maybe 1,800 million, because we're just going to see if that's true. And that is not hatred, Mr Bartosik. It's annoying because of your lies. In Lublin, Minister, it took place this way: there were 83 million, there are 60, there were 75, there were 60 - almost 30% down. Self-governments prepared projects, incurred costs, and thus losses, because these projects had to be corrected. And finally, the question about these procedures. Many Members have asked that question. Minister, let me ask you briefly, because time is running out: Will the snarling local governments also get local government support? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You fired.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unlike my colleague Jerzy Meysztowicz, I will not congratulate you on joining the campaign. I think it's just sad to politicize this topic in the fire of self-government struggle. This topic is so serious that you should have taken it sooner. I listened attentively to Mr Weber, who was concerned about how many people died on the district roads in 2017. He said 950 people. Mr President, how much is it in 2016? How much in 2015? Where were you then? It's wrong to politicize this topic. District roads, on the other hand, need this money very much. My question to the Minister is where the money's coming from. He gave me sources of funding. But what does that mean? What's not gonna happen? What's gonna be less? In general, I am curious how this was going on with regard to the idea of this law and its inclusion on this agenda. You sat down and found that the county roads were an important topic in the local government campaign. That's gonna have to put something in it. But there isn't. Who do you have to take to put it in here? Who's not important? Who's not important? What's the public not gonna react to? Environmental protection. A billion this way or that way. Who's gonna notice a billion dollars spent on smog? Well, he'll notice. Ladies and gentlemen, there are even more people dying because of smog than people dying on local roads. Your approach is ridiculous. There are also rumors about this, and I would like to ask the Minister if it is true that the voivodship cities, i.e. cities like my family Green Mountain or Gorzów Mrs Sibińska will not be able to apply for funding. Will these cities really not be able to apply for funding? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u135	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have already presented you from this speaker, how the Law and Justice manage the money of Poles. He collects taxes from them, then takes them in the form of salaries, bonuses. He gives them away elsewhere, saying that he gives something to Poles, and really distributes money that comes from the introduction of new taxes and fees. Exactly the same thing in this case. Let us be honest with ourselves that the money you want to spend on roads will come from the 10 gr issue fee introduced by your government, although the money in terms of the fuel burden that citizens pay is enough. Let us remind you that nearly half of the fuel costs we pay for at the fuel station are various types of fees and taxes. As well as this tax, whether it's VAT or excise, money could be spent quietly on road construction. This should be the objective of spending these funds. I have a question for the Minister: Why do you charge a double margin in this case when it comes to taxes? It's completely illogical. This also shows how the PiS expands the state administration. You have introduced a fee of 10 gr per litre as part of the issue fee that will go to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Someone's got to be hired to keep this fund running. Then this money will be transferred to the Self-Government Road Fund so that another PiS nominate can get a position and continue to manage this money. Why are you creating an even more anti-Citizenish and even more extensive administration? Enough stools for your Misiewicz. Take it easy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u138	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In previous programmes addressed to municipal and district authorities, as regards the criteria that were defined, there was no load capacity of roads, therefore on many modernised roads, whether municipal or district roads, there are road signs limiting carrying capacity - this is 8 t, and this is 12 t of total pressure. I have a question: Will this new programme of the Fund for the Roads of the Self-Government be a criterion for raising the capacity of these newly modernised roads? Entrepreneurs are waiting for this. It seems very appropriate. The sustainability and quality of these roads will increase. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u139	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to address the local government, too. You're getting a new instrument in the form of the Self-Government Road Fund, and I think you're going to use it well. This is the first time you're gonna have so much funding, and I think you're gonna benefit from it. On the other hand, I address the Minister. Did the previously functioning system, which introduced this funding 50-50, not lead to an increase in the diversity of district and communal Poland, where the richer municipalities once again received 50% because they had this contribution, while in those poorer ones, as a rule more neglected, this negligence continued to worsen because they could not afford 50% funding? Do we count how many such roads were not built just because they were poor, poor? Was that what the previous coalition was paying attention to? And one more thing. I think the old biblical saying about the splinter and the log is... You keep talking about the PiS government giving away money, and you're calling it us, Platform and PSL, building roads, spending money out of the budget. You spent as much as we spend or spend. It wasn't your money, it wasn't ours. Yours were just as much from the budget and from the taxpayers as they are now. The government doesn't have any other money, it always spends taxpayers' money. [[It's got, out of the citizens' pockets, fuel tax.]] So as you spent it, it was yours, and as we spend it, it's the taxpayers. Please use one measure. And your constant saying, don't lie. All you have to do is not steal so that the money is there. And the money's here right now, and it will be. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] There's money and there will be. I think... [[It's recorded what Mr. Prime Minister is...]] ...that you're afraid that you're gonna lose again. Just like you lost in parliament, that's how you lose in local governments. The government knows they can trust us, and I'm sure they'll trust us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u141	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, if you came here three years ago, two and a half years ago and presented this project, which is presented today at the summit of the local government campaign, then okay, then you might consider yourselves credible, in what you want to do, but today - just as one of the previous speakers said - there is no credibility in what you present. Why? Well, if you were credible, in recent years, just as it has been presented here on the basis of concrete figures, you would not have cut down the local road construction fund. If you were credible, you wouldn't be putting together a map of investment on national roads according to the economical political needs of the country. I represent a small town which lies north of Poznań on national road 11. Now Prime Minister Morawiecki at the Wielkopolska Convention said: you have an eleven. But why is this section from Poznan to Obornik still marked as non-funded for 1.5 years or 2 years on the map presented by the General Directorate of National Roads? It's gonna work out, Minister, it's not gonna hold. On this occasion, I ask you in writing to answer the question: Is there going to be funding for the Poznań - Oborniki section on national road 11, including the Obornik ring road, the new Wart bridge in the coming years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because Mr Pudłowski referred to my speech, and now he has escaped, he is not in the plenary room... [[He's gone.]] Your marshal, well, if the correction formula could be used immediately, then he could hear what I have to say to him, and now I will not refer to him. But it's a good thing there are other people in the courtroom who say other things that are just not true, they're a lie, because it's worth it, Minister, asking a question, these lies to correct. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, that is the year in which we are, PLN 1300 million transferred from the state budget for renovation, modernization... [[And we'll see about that.]] ...and the construction of new municipal and district roads. [[Yes? Will they be used?]] 800 million are part of one programme and an additional 500 million are implemented under the second programme. Contracts in the Lublin Voivodeship have also been signed, Mr. President. What's new about the other program? [[I was talking about facts.]] There were those who talked about continuing. Newness is one, namely local governments, these poorer local authorities, could obtain funding for the value of the task up to 70%. And the question, Minister: Did those countries who were sitting there, who ruled Poland for 8 years, create such tools for support for poorer self-governments, in which they could gain up to 80% of the value of the task as in this project? I, Minister, have not heard of such tools. So, ladies and gentlemen, don't lie about us continuing because we're doing a lot of things again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u145	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Jakub Rutnicki, I would like to welcome the children sitting in the gallery from the Respect Football Academy in Szalowa. Welcome. [[Applause]] Now, please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform. [[The Sejm's representative's bouncer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have the main character here. It is Minister Adamczyk, ladies and gentlemen, who is to build roads, but, of course, PiS only promises, because for the last three years, and for three years you have ruled, in fact these local roads you have built less than the PO-PSL coalition. Minister, I have a great concern, because I think that every plan that you're facing doesn't really work out, because let's remind you, Minister Adamczyk was a great builder of Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Adamczyk built these apartments so well that they were taken from him because he didn't build any. Exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen, with these roads. [[I'm sorry.]] It's only going to be an election sausage. 'Cause what's the PiS saying? The piss says it's like today's rule is starting. He's been in charge for over three years and he says we're gonna build. What's the truth? Ladies and gentlemen, you are also listening to this debate. Who's gonna pay for these new roads if they're even gonna be there? And given that he will try to build them Minister Adamczyk, really, ladies and gentlemen, the chances will be minimal. But who's gonna pay for it? All drivers will pay at the gas station because the fuel will go at least 10 gr. And if the fuel goes up, what's going to go down? Food supplies. So who's gonna pay for your election sausage? Citizens. You really lie to them all the time. And I think it would be worth it to be honest and say that you've actually done much less for three years. And what else does it turn out to be? Apart from the fact that you're gonna bust drivers at gas stations, we're gonna get another 0.5 billion from the Ministry of National Defence's budget. So what, Minister? It turns out that maybe the roads will be built, but at the expense of citizens' safety. It's a real shame, Minister, that you're preparing this wick five minutes before the election. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u147	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were many comments, doubts, but also voices of support. I thank you for the majority of these votes and, above all, for those which resulted from the analysis of the text with the understanding of this text. It was worse with those who were completely disconnected from reality. One of your fellow Members referred to this - and it has been repeated - that these are the roads that dominated the election campaign. The question should be asked why the roads dominated the election campaign. [[Because you don't build them.]] Because the roads dominated the election campaign because their condition is so bad that today Poles expect to improve their condition and quality, safety on the roads and normal mobility. [[Three years, scandal.]] You will not scream - I address the Members of the total opposition - you will not scream reality. [[Weak.]] The state of the roads, especially local roads, is terrible. [[It's not an exposé.]] The Supreme Audit Chamber referred to the state of the national roads, defining this condition as good, but no one has any doubts about the local roads anymore... Now let me answer your next questions. Are we building expensive roads? One of your fellow Members mentioned all the roads with tunnels and large ridges. In fact, it is very easy to show that the road is a road: it is enough that it has 2 km of tunnel or 0.5 km of tunnel, 1 km of tunnel or a kilometer walk. Road S61. I address this Member. You forgot that as a result of the tender for the S61 road, it costs 22 million to build a kilometer of this road. Non-transparent distribution of funds in the proposed bill. The Act provides for rules for the distribution of funds into the voivodship, then the voivode announces the competition, the Prime Minister can change the list, but it has legal conditions, but there is no such freedom as you are talking about. It's a secret defensive task list. It is important to remember that defence tasks have always been classified tasks. Nothing changes around here, and it's not some special project developer's initiative. This is the maintenance of rules, procedures and compliance with applicable law. It is the Minister of National Defence who identifies the roads that will be implemented within the framework of defence needs, and only those decisions will decide which roads will be financed by the Fund, which will be indicated by the Minister of National Defence. State Forests. You know perfectly well - 2% the amount resulting from the sale of wood. And when you talk about excellent quality, about the quality of forest roads, yes, they are very good quality. And since you are already so sorry that the forest roads will be of worse quality, please pay attention and consider which way this tree is going out of the forest, which way. Mostly self-government. For which roads should we seek to participate in their repair, in renovation, in modernisation, in increasing load capacity? Of course, those whose tree is exported from the forest. It's natural, isn't it? I already told you when the defense roads are being chosen. I do not see Mr Jarosław Nobletka in the room. Mr Nobletka asked if the Self-Government Road Fund - that was a positive, creative question - would build city bypasses, whether they could be financed from this fund. Yes, it will be possible to finance these investments, which will relieve towns and cities and reduce this movement, which often kills them, which destroys them and kills their inhabitants. The multi-annual tasks, the funding of PLN 30 million to one task - this already allows to take into account city bypasses, this already allows to include in the selection of proposals those investments that people often expect, the inhabitants expect for generations, not for years, but for generations, and what has not been solved so far. Why are there no voivodship roads? The voivodship roads can receive funding from the fund for defence tasks, as well as the implementation of bridges and access roads to these bridges. You know very well that voivodship roads have a greater opportunity to receive funding, among others. from EU funds. As far as the Podlaskie roads are concerned, my ministry spent almost PLN 200 million on local roads in the years 2016 and 2018 in Podlasie itself. So it's not true, and it's an absolute abuse of the claim that no funds were spent. Continuity of the Via Carpatia route. Tell me when in history, Via Carpatia had access to Via Baltica through the Knyszyńska Forest until 2015. Didn't it just happen to be that... It wasn't a coincidence, it was just a conceptual action. A solution was adopted to ensure that the S16 will be run and financed from Knyszyn to Ełk. For the sake of clarity: by 2009 Via Carpatia had no continuity at all, it was not included as an expressway. In three years, the government was not interested in funding local roads. That's not true. Every year, 800 million PLN was allocated to this purpose from the municipal development programme of district road infrastructure - that is a fact. In addition, every year, as you have already forgotten, creating such negative visions of what has been happening since November 2015, from the reserve... [[What does Morawiecki do?]] ...a total subsidy was spent on PLN 330 million. That's 1 billion already. So please add almost PLN 1 billion in these accounts. Operation is easy, because it's just a simple range of accounts. Why doesn't the state budget finance the tasks? The Act clearly states that the State budget will finance the tasks with the amount of PLN 1600 million. In addition, the budget transfers bonds to the fund for an amount without a small amount of PLN 3 billion. Please bear this in mind and take this into account. I hope that you will take this into account in further debate and parliamentary debate. Why are there guarantees that companies of the State Treasury which are obliged to transfer some of their profits to the Self-Government Road Fund will make such profits? Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the amount deducted from the companies of the State Treasury is only PLN 130 million. Transfer of resources to fight smog. The national environmental fund has the right financial resources and is not at risk in the fight against smog. However, there is one comment: most of the country, practically everyone is aware that the road in good technical condition, renovated, having all the attributes that protect the least protected traffic participants, i.e. cyclists, pedestrians, is less exhaust emissions from vehicles that use it. Surely the use of financial quotas for modernisation, reconstruction, construction of local roads is also linked to the reduction of exhaust emissions. I was amused by one of your fellow Members, and I can't give myself here when... [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] I was amused by one of the Members who said that in 2018 in September, in October, the policy entered the local elections. I do not know if you remember, because I perfectly remember that in the first elections to the restored powiats the election committees issued by the parties and the party of the Member, the PSL party, also presented their candidates in local elections throughout the country. At that time, PSL was proud to introduce many activists from the green flag into the local government. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the Self-Government Road Fund please don't mix politics into pragmatic discussion... [[Good point to the Prime Minister.]] ...the object of which is primarily safe self-government roads in Poland. If your marshal will allow me, I'll have to look at my notes so I don't miss anything. There's one more thing that matters. This doesn't apply to the Self-Government Road Fund. This argument has been repeatedly used in today's debate and discussion. I would like to ask and appeal, in particular, to those who know what the procedures for determining the road path, the newly implemented road investment are like. I address in particular those who empathize with this Seymary and beyond events that have been described for the last several dozen hours or the last few days in the space of public debate. I would like to appeal, reminding you that the agreement for the execution of STEŚ - and those who use this argument know that it is a technical and environmental study - requires an analysis of the course of the road. If one year earlier we sign a contract for the implementation of STEŚ, this is the preparation of materials for the request for an environmental decision, you know perfectly well, ladies and gentlemen, that at this stage there is a public consultation on the next options of the road, and a decision on the choice of a specific option will be made not sooner than the environmental decision will be issued. And please, if you are already getting this information, use your knowledge, your experience in the implementation of road investments. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for this lively discussion. I understand that the Phillips, and the purely political ones, and the purely personal ones, are an integral part of the debate in the Polish Parliament - but not only in Poland, because it is so in every civilized state of the world. So, first of all, thank you for this debate... [[And the reserve?]] ...especially in the substantive part, because we are particularly concerned about this discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u149	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The envisaged Self-Government Road Fund is intended to be a permanent mechanism for financial support for local road tasks. In agreement with the idea of creating a fund, the efficiency of future investments must be questioned. For three years we have been hearing further announcements from the politicians of the governing party about the creation of a local road support programme, but these announcements are not followed by any concrete action, and the government clearly has no coherent idea of financing such expenditure. At this point it must be clearly stated that the current government is unable to implement even half as effective a programme as the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme, in which during the years of the PO-PSL coalition governments successfully completed the reconstruction of hundreds of kilometres of roads. An important aspect of the project is the financing of the newly created fund. It is worth recalling here that in 2017 Law and Justice tried to adopt a law which provided for the introduction of a road toll of 20 gr to each litre of fuel intended for construction and repair of roads. This year an issue fee was introduced, which according to government calculations is to allow the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to be credited with PLN 1.4 billion. These funds were originally intended to finance powerful purchases of electric buses for Polish cities. According to the impact assessment of the law, this amount is exactly the same, i.e. 1.4 billion from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be used to finance the Fund for Roads of Local Government. Is it therefore clear that the scheme will be financed through the money from the issue fee, i.e. from the funds that Poles and Poles pay daily as part of the price of fuel purchased at petrol stations?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u151	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The competent committees submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on the Polish Press Agency. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 5 and 6 of the agenda: 5. First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws (Print No 2854). 6. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax (print No 2852). I ask the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill contained in print No 2854. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a draft of the amendments that we are introducing into the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, which concern mainly transparency policy, simplicity and friendship of the system. The main change or really new solution contained in this project is the introduction of a reduced CIT rate, i.e. corporate income tax, which is - according to the proposed project - 9% , for taxpayers whose revenues did not exceed the equivalent in PLN 1,200 thousand. Euros. At present, this revenue threshold entitles 15% of the rate to be applied. We want to reduce this rate to 9% in order to activate entrepreneurs, say, small and medium-sized, who are about 400,000. operators currently registered and entitled to apply this rate. In addition, we provide incentives to leave capital for development in companies. We're introducing the so-called. a hypothetical deduction of interest on retained earnings and on company subsidies. This hypothetical deduction is that we want in some way to align the tax effects of the financing that a taxpayer can obtain outside, i.e. debt financing, with its own funding. We predict that the deduction from this hypothetical interest rate on equity will amount to 2,5%. On a yearly basis, with the upper limit, the top limit will be 250,000. zł. We provide for a number of simplifications for taxpayers of personal income tax, among others. a provision which provides for the right to preferential taxation of common spouses or single parents. We will abolish the current restriction that failure to testify by 30 April will result in the loss of the right to this joint settlement. We are introducing amendments relating to a 5-year period for the exemption from the sale of real estate. It's an idea that we're counting this 5-year term not from the moment the heir acquires the property, that is, from the moment the estate is opened, only from the moment the heir acquires or constructs the property. There are also a number of other simplifications that I can present in the next item. We will ease the conditions for the use of the so-called. We will extend the term of the right to benefit from the exemption from 2 to 3 years in the case of the sale of the property and the use of the income obtained for our own housing purposes. We will introduce changes to passenger cars used in business, which will consist of an increase from the current 20,000. EUR, about 85 000. PLN, up to 150,000. zł limit of expenditure which entitles you to include expenditure on a passenger car in the cost of obtaining revenue. With regard to electric cars, we will raise this limit from the current 30,000. the euro, i.e. About 130,000. PLN, up to 225 thousand. zł. The project also introduces a lump sum of 70... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You are reducing the possibility of deduction.]] I'll get right to it. In the project we also provide for the right to deduct 75% expenditure on the maintenance of a passenger car in business activities without keeping records, i.e. that someone who does not keep detailed vehicle records for business purposes will simply be able to deduct 75% the expenditure. If, on the other hand, the taxpayer keeps such detailed records, it may deduct up to 100% according to that record. expenditure. In my opinion, this is an easy one, which is that someone who doesn't have any documentation can count 75%. expenditure. We're also introducing an additional deduction, which means that if someone uses a private car in business, they can deduct 20%. expenditure incurred without detailed documentation in this respect. We also harmonise the rules on the deduction of costs in the case of leasing and leasing of passenger cars, such financing. They're going to be the same for everyone, this is about the amount that we're raising to 150,000. zł, and this higher limit for electric cars - up to 225 thousand. zł. We also propose in this law the repeal of certain information and registration obligations, e.g. as regards the flat-rate from the rental revenues recorded. Currently, someone who wants to benefit from this lump sum must report to the tax office by the 20th day of the following month, stating that he wants to benefit from this lump sum. We are introducing such a deadline here that this decision will be taken at the time of the annual statement, which means that we are significantly extending the deadline for taxpayers to take this decision. The project also provides for the establishment of a cost deduction in case of debt-to-equity conversion. At the moment, this case is controversial in court case law. We waive information obligations that are unnecessary in relation to the tax group - namely the announcement in the Court and Economic Monitor that there is a capital group - because the capital group does not really matter from the point of view of civil law relations, only from the point of view of taxation. This project will be implemented the exemption for technical surveillance units. It may be important for entrepreneurs that we raise deduction limits in terms of contributions to employers' and entrepreneurs' organisations, those to which it is optional. Overall, this limit will be increased by 0,15% up to 0,25% the salary fund, while the quota limit will be increased from PLN 114 to PLN 250. The tax exemption for the sale of the agricultural holding - both corporate and individuals - will be extended and clarified. We will also allow this law in certain situations to use copies of residence certificates in case of payments with small amounts, i.e. up to 10,000. zł. A paper certificate signed by the competent authorities will continue to be required above this amount. With regard to the draft submitted for consideration in item 6 of the agenda, print 2852, I would like to ask the High House to reject it as it contains similar solutions, in principle identical to those proposed in the Government project in print No 2854, with the parliamentary project submitted in print No 2852, providing for a way of calculating this 5-year period for the exemption from real estate disposal, but it is a little bit more kazuistic, i.e. predicts what happens when someone is an heir, an heir, what happens when someone is married to the heir who lives together with him. All the proposals presented in this parliamentary project are also included in our government submission in print No 2854. Our project is a little wider because we refer, in addition to the acquired property, also to buildings built, and in addition to these possibilities proposed in the parliamentary project we introduce additional credits to tax costs, e.g. the possibility of being included in the tax costs of the expenses incurred for the acquisition or construction of the property by the heir - i.e. the heir will be able to reduce the tax base for those expenses or, if he inherits those expenses incurred by the heir, we will also introduce the possibility to consider inheritance debts as costs of obtaining proceeds from the disposal of the inherited property. Thus, it seems that in this case the government project treats this more widely, giving the heirs further-reaching powers. For this reason, we ask you not to include the message. Thank you, High Izbo. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u153	Thank you very much. Before I give my vote to you, I would like to welcome the Cogito School Group from Siemianowice Śląski, who is listening to our discussions. Welcome to the Seym. [[Applause]] And now Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will present the 2852 print project. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! To be honest, you have said scandalous words to the Minister, because it is about respect for the work of Members who, on the basis of their own knowledge, without government legislators, without all the machinery, which is hard, write draft laws that they make earlier, and then the government copies it to its proposals. To reject this at first reading only because these are opposition projects, it is not appropriate, Minister, I must be honest. [[Applause]] It is worth leaning over them, it would be good for both projects to be meticulously... to go to the subcommittee, since some of these regulations have simply been copied to your solution. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a print of 2852, which the Minister has already said here, that he intends to propose to reject it, including a revision of the Personal Income Tax Act. What do we propose in these regulations? We propose, as has already been said here, a change in the rules on the calculation of personal income tax, which acquired the property and disposed of it before the expiry of 5 years, but have acquired it in the meantime by way of inheritance, distribution of the assets resulting from divorce or the establishment of separation. This is precisely the basis for charging this tax to the heirs of their spouses, fathers, grandparents and divorced and separated spouses. These rules are subject to a number of controversy in case law, in the opinions of legal and financial backgrounds and are clearly detrimental to taxpayers. In principle, the current rules create a paradoxical situation in which the disposal of assets belonging to the spouses does not constitute a basis for taxing on one day and in the other where one of the spouses, for example. He dies, he is already the basis for charging the tax, in the event of death, divorce, separation, as if the second spouse, children of the deceased, grandkids again purchased this property, because that is how it should be understood from the tax point of view. This approach of the tax authorities leads to the situation that inheritance of property after the spouse, parents, grandparents is treated as a re-purchase of real estate or rights to real estate, which in fact previously constituted the property of the heir, in particular. in the case of the property community of the spouses. It is quite important here to stress that we have a much greater nuisance of the current solution for citizens who are covered by such a right, in relation to the benefits which, on the other hand, flow from this provision to the state budget. The death of a spouse often causes a drastic deterioration in the living conditions of another spouse, often a reduction in household income. It's just that, instead of two benefits, there's one thing left, and it's often the cost of living, and the basic ones aren't getting any lower. However, with regard to tax revenue to the State budget, in 2015 less than 100,000 were paid by the tax on the payment of real estate and property rights. taxpayers, and the proceeds from it amounted to PLN 210 million, which represents 0,25% tax revenue from individuals, which is really showing that it is some sort of promil, irrelevant from the point of view of the entire state budget. On the other hand, if we take into account that only part of this revenue will be reduced due to the exemption of the heirs from this tax, we estimate that it will cost PLN 50 million, i.e. about 1/4 of what at the moment this tax on real estate disposal and property rights affects the state budget. In short, we propose that the death of one of the spouses, parent, grandfather, divorce or separation should not affect the duration of 5 years after the acquisition of the property. The Minister, as I said, has made it clear that he is suggesting that this project should be rejected. I don't see why. In fact, there is no reason to reject this project. He can go freely with the government project to the Committee on Public Finance and then work on these solutions. And this is my important question to the Minister, who said that the government project is wider. I wanted to ask: Does the change in the five-year deadline, the five-year period since the acquisition of real estate in your law apply only to persons who acquire the right to inheritance, whether it applies to all persons who have a right to inheritance, but also whether it concerns the distribution of assets as a result of divorce or separation? Ladies and gentlemen, a curiosity situation: In the event of inheritance, especially in the property community, we imagine such a situation that... The wife acquires her husband's inheritance, but finds that the property she inherited in its entirety, which she is already the sole owner of, is unable to maintain. She's got one pension instead of two, and it's hard for her to physically hold this property, and she says she wants to throw it away, and life forces her to throw it away. And today he must pay income tax on it, even though he did not actually acquire any new rights, because this property previously constituted the property of the community of the spouses, from whom the tax was meticulously paid, because the money for which, I understand, the spouses purchased the property was taxed in one way or another during the life of the spouse. However, the same situation is common in divorce cases. The wife beaten by her husband leaves her husband, the court grants her property which is a property association - an apartment. Wives divorced from their husband can't afford to pay a tax on it. She often stays with two children, alimony payments are sometimes paid, sometimes no, sometimes, her property situation is getting worse. And the penalty that she decided not to be a victim in her marriage and to be emancipated from the tyrant is to pay the property tax that the court granted her as part of the distribution of the property previously covered by the community. I ask whether your bill regulates this situation and to what extent. I ask the Minister a similar question. Does your project address this issue to the possibility of a separation decision between spouses, which in the same way may cause a situation in which the spouse, who is injured and who is not guilty of divorce, is ruled out by the spouse, can be harmed by the fact that it will have an additional tax burden, while its property status is very often not improving at this point, but, on the contrary, getting worse? So much for me. If there are any questions on the part of the Members, of course, I am serving as the answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u155	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the club Law and Justice against the bill presented in print No 2854 on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this project and I will literally say why in a few sentences. The Minister presented this project in a clear and synthetic manner, but he also referred to each of the elements of the bill. Individual solutions are dedicated, respectable state, natural persons, legal persons, but also to those who conduct business activities. The purpose of the amendments or modifications to the provisions of these laws is broadly understood to simplify tax law, as stated in the justification for this project. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a project that amends several laws. I think it would be good to refer to the titles of these laws so that the scope of the proposed amendments can be understood. The proposed bill provides for amendments to the following legal acts: the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporate income tax, the Act of 20 November 1998 on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by natural persons, the Act of 9 September 2000 on civil law taxation, the Act of 25 September 2015 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the promotion of innovation, the Act of 16 December 2016. The provisions on the rules for the management of public property and the Act of 27 October 2017 on the amendment of the Law on personal income tax, the Law on corporate income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by natural persons. I have presented a bill relating to very many laws, because we will probably also be discussing the submission of a group of modern Members in a moment. In my opinion, like the Minister, all these solutions have been consummated in this bill, and, moreover, they go far further, where taxpayers will gain much more. Specific solutions are being introduced under which the Government of Law and Justice, in the previous discussion we heard, Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice, the Polish Government, introduces regulations to reduce the CIT rate to 9%. We implement, ladies and gentlemen, both the Law and Justice and the Government's commitment and significantly reduce CIT tax for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a measurable, clear, very clear indication that if we are able to manage the country effectively, we can also reduce taxes. 9% This is one of the lower rates of tax that we can observe today, ladies and gentlemen. This is set out in the Responsible Development Strategy and identified as one of the priorities for the Minister of Finance for 2018. Thus, Minister, I thank you on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for preparing the draft contained in this printing. But this law or amendment of these laws also introduces further solutions very, but it is very beneficial for Polish taxpayers, for Polish citizens: changes relating to heirs, about which the Minister said here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] easing the conditions for the use of housing benefits by extending from 2 to 3 years...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u157	Please make your way to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u158	Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to, as I said, print No 2854 Law and Justice will vote in favour, and with regard to print No 2852, just as the Minister has submitted here, Law and Justice will be opposed and will ask for rejection in full in the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax due to the fact that the government project consumes the same project. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, it is not.]] [[And just now there was so much about pluralism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start with a government project, which primarily concerns changes in income taxes, and the aim here is supposedly to simplify tax law. According to the explanatory memorandum, the proposed amendment is in line with policy 3 x P, i.e.: transparent, simple, friendly, but most of these solutions are deprived of these qualities. As a result, this novel will certainly not encourage us to engage in business, even though the Minister is trying to convince us so. The project in fact confirms the idea that the government does not have a vision of the tax system or the goals it wants to achieve, that it does not know exactly how to stimulate the economy, how to prepare the Polish economy, entrepreneurs for the upcoming crisis, which economists are increasingly talking about. In return, we have a legislative mess. The proof of this is, for example, Art. 7 and amendment to the amendment, I no longer know which amendment of the Act of 27 October 2017. I will remind you what I said before: You are really doing what you have just done, and Minister Gruza promises - I remember he promised it from this bleacher - that this is the last time. This is not the best indication of the quality of your legislation. I'll get to the details. The issue that we believe is absolutely unacceptable, especially in the context of the objectives that the Minister was talking about, is the accounting of expenditure related to the use of passenger cars by entrepreneurs, because under the banner of increasing the limit, as well as the definition and harmonisation of rules, additional obligations are introduced for entrepreneurs and, in fact, the taxation of all entrepreneurs is increasing by reducing the costing capacity to 75%. The question is, how does this apply to 3x passwords? Q: transparent, simple and friendly, especially if we take into account the fact that entrepreneurs do not work 8 hours a day, and often at night, on Sundays, holidays. The car replaces the office, the hotel, and the detailed VAT records are not actually kept primarily because the entrepreneurs lack time to comply with detailed records, and they are afraid to expose the tax administration. In fact, this is the only record that must be kept by the taxpayer, not by the tax office, as it is on other matters. This solution is extremely hostile to entrepreneurs, and it is hypocritical for the government to point out that it is friendly to business people. A significant change concerns the reduction of CIT for entities whose revenues are lower than EUR 1.2 million. It seems as if you want to introduce this solution to the sunshine. It is also worth noting that this concerns a relatively small number of entrepreneurs: potentially 400 000. If we consider the consequences, this is 80 PLN, 83 PLN per month. This is the scale and tax advantage resulting from this. At the same time, it is worth noting that the government in one law speaks of a limit of 1,200 thousand. PLN, and already in the next one, over which we are about to process, raises the limit to 2 million. Question: "Will we be updating the records again?" Is this the result of a mess at the Ministry of Finance or a simple oversight? With regard to the introduction of preferential taxation of the income of spouses, single parents, this is a proposal which is a kind of equivalent to the restoration of a material term. And this is the solution that, if I remember correctly, is included in the assumptions of the new Tax Order, which is being worked out by the General Tax Law Codification Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wouldn't it be better to introduce ordination as a whole, rather than just transfer some of the issues contained in it to legal submissions? Just one more thing. It's about taking advantage of the housing benefit. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the extension of this deadline...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u161	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u162	...to 3 years reduces control capacity to 2 years, which, given the dramatic even after the reform, the efficiency of the tax administration, as I have evidence in response to the interpellations, raises serious concerns.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u164	One last thing. I see no reason to reject the Modern Project. [[Applause]] If we are working on these points together, they should be in one report. We should proceed over both laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u166	I'm calling it on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, I must say that I am shocked that the Minister is informing, as it were, indicating the way of the Members of the Law and Justice... [[Which there isn't.]] ...who aren't here, not one of the PiS members is in this room... [[I'm at the gallery.]] ...shows how these Members are to proceed. Did the Minister say to the Members of the PiS: Do you have to reject the Modern Project? The Member presenting the position of Law and Justice went out on the stand and said: As the Minister said, we will reject the Modern Project. Minister! This is not a dictatorship of executive power... [[Voice from the hall: Yes, it is, unfortunately.]] ...only we are in the Chamber of Legislative Authority. I call on you to refrain from dictating what to do to Members, and to focus on the substantive work that, as I see from this project, is lacking in some elements. I'll start with this better project, prepared by the Modern Posel Club. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is an expected project. The rules that are in place today lead to a paradoxical situation in which, at a given time, the disposal of assets belonging to the spouses does not constitute a basis for taxing, because the acquisition of that property occurred earlier than in the last 5 years, but at the time of the death of one of the spouses or at the time of divorce or separation, the tax obligation arises in relation to the disposal of that property, which lasted for the next 5 years. Moreover, in some cases this period counts not even since the death of the spouse, but since the date on which the acquisition of the estate was established, i.e. a later date, which is still prolonged. The proposed amendment provides for clarification of the current regulation, seeks interpretation for the benefit of the taxpayer - this Law and Justice and the Government of Law and Justice - lacks: action for the benefit of the taxpayer - in order to be precise and consistent with the logic of the functioning and interpretation of tax law in accordance with the essence of the marital system, and takes into account the interests of the closest heirs. It's important because here Law and Justice applies, I would say, rules rather from some kind of perception of the world... Rules not related to the institution of a democratic rule of law. This project shall in particular clarify the legal status of the tax obligation on transactions for the payment of the sale of immovable property or assets which are part of the matrimonial union after the death of one of the spouses or the distribution of assets as a result of divorce or separation, so that that event does not affect the time limit referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (8). The Minister said it was a casuistic rule. Minister, the casuistic rule is when your government, the Government of Law and Justice, submits a bill for one purpose - to dismiss the director of some central office. Then, in fact, it's a casuistic recipe. You may not be watching Parliament's work, but I assure you, Minister, that such casuistic rules on the part of your government have been in this term of office for at least a few dozen. On the other hand, this is a project expected by a large social group and calling it casuistic is an expression of disrespect for citizens who have collided with these laws in their lives. But I understand the ministry is behind the fence, so you can't see it. As regards the draft regulation presented by the Ministry in print No 2854, we read in the impact assessment that it is a project which is supposed to comply with the 3P principle, namely the principle of transparency, simplicity and friendship of the tax system. I have to say, after reading this project, that it is rather in line with the PKP principle, which is the principle of increasing, complicate taxes. Minister, this is a project that treats tax law as a law that can be changed at any time, at any time and in any way, completely disregarding the fact that the tax system, in order to be transparent and consistent, must be uniform in some way. The State draws and places things that, throughout the tax system, prove to be absolutely opaque and unfavorable to taxpayers, such as. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the 90% tax rate mentioned here. Minister, who's gonna pay her? After all, there is a limit to this tax amount. Not a lot of taxpayers fit in. But the important thing is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u169	Step to the end, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u170	You are introducing - of course, your marshal, if you allow, literally half a minute - changes in the accounting of the use of passenger cars in the activities of companies. Minister, really, 150,000. zł. I went through the parking lot under the Ministry of Finance. That's really not the kind of car that's standing there. To deal with it in such a way that if a taxpayer uses a more expensive car in his business, he's a bad taxpayer... For many taxpayers, for many small companies, microenterprises are the only assets that make them even earn revenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u171	Quit really, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u172	You want to take this opportunity away from them. This isn't tax simplification. This is a tax raise, and you, Minister, should come here and apologize to the taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u173	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u174	...on behalf of the government in which you operate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u175	Thank you very much. You're welcome to keep an eye on the financial discipline... Temporary. And the financials, too. [[Of course, Marshal. I'm very sorry.]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on two draft laws at first reading: a government bill amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and some other laws, contained in print No.2854, and a parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax, contained in print No.2852. Let me start my position with the first, i.e. the government project, which provides for regulations that concern entrepreneurs and individuals who are not engaged in business activities. The project introduces a reduced CIT rate of 9% for taxable persons whose income does not exceed EUR 1.2 million in a given tax year. According to the projectors, this solution is intended to apply to taxable persons starting their business and already running it. It is estimated to cover around 440 thousand. taxable persons entitled to a lower rate and will then pay CIT-8. What's next for the project? Allowing to include in the costs of obtaining the income of fictional interest on the capital left in companies. It is proposed to eliminate discriminatory treatment of equity capital vis-à-vis debt financing by introducing the possibility of increasing revenue costs by an equivalent cost of debt financing. The draft also provides for the following modifications, such as the repeal in the PIT Act of the provision providing for the right to preferential taxation of income settlement of spouses and single-parents from the timely submission of a tax return, i.e. from 30 April each year, the introduction of amendments relating to property heirs or certain property rights acquired in succession, the relaxation of the conditions of use of the so-called. housing relief, e.g. by extending from 2 to 3 years the period during which it can be used to introduce changes to passenger cars used in the business of up to 150 000. zł the amount of the limit on the value of a passenger car to which it is possible to fully deduct depreciations due to the consumption of such a vehicle, as well as an increase of up to 150 thousand. zł amount relating to the value of the car accepted for the purpose of deduction of the contribution from the insurance of a passenger car, which can be included in the cost of obtaining revenue, increase to 225 thousand. MRO settl. limit for electric cars, lay down rules for the accounting of the cost of using passenger cars used in business and for other purposes. It is also envisaged to repeal the information and reporting obligations relating to a lump sum from the revenues recorded for rental, sub-rent, to determine the cost of obtaining revenues shown in connection with the conversion of debt to capital, to repeal the obligation to publish in the Court and Economic Monitor information on the registration and deletion of the tax group. The government project also allows the use of copies of residence certificates under certain conditions - currently it is only possible to present the original and current certificate of the taxable person's place of residence for tax purposes. So-called. the residence certificate allows the benefit of preferential tax rules following changes to the rules. On the other hand, the Parliamentary project prepared by the Members of the Modern Parliament concerns a very important area, which is the 5-year grace period for the heirs of their spouses to the extent that they acquired the property through inheritance and subsequently disposed of it. It is about the tax burden, specifically the elimination of this 5-year period. The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is behind this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to forward both projects to the committee for further work. We are also joining in with criticism, Minister, of the position you have presented here, already setting out, indicating to the High House, which project deserves further proceding and which does not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u177	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u178	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I understand that Prime Minister Morawiecki sets standards of speech in the rule of law and justice based on a lie, [[Applause]] because you, Minister, lied in your speech, saying that the rate was reduced from 15% to 9% concerns small and medium-sized enterprises. A small entrepreneur is an entrepreneur who employs 50 people and accounts for 10 million euro, an average entrepreneur - at least 250 people and 50 million euro. Which of these entrepreneurs will be taxed at a rate of 9%, Minister. ? Why don't you explain it to me? [[Applause]] Because the law only refers to micro-entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to EUR 1.2 million, and such entrepreneurs represent a source of around 0.7%. all receipts, all income from corporation tax, CIT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! If you have prepared a great project, why didn't you change the distribution criteria for micro-entrepreneurs? As my previous speaker said, you tell Poles that you are doing something for them, and that is not true. The second point concerns the project proposed by the Modern Club. It's a reliable and excellent solution. In our fifth term of office, we agreed that inheritances and donations would be tax-free among the immediate family. What difference does it make if my spouse gives me diamonds or half the apartment? It's not like you can stop people from owning their assets. A setting the criteria for real estate and disposal only after a certain date [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is not a help to the citizens at all, but a burden. It is worth changing this by voting for the procession of the Modern Project. [[Applause]] I am directing these words to a few Members, actually to the Member. Tell your friends.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u181	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń. [[Mrs. Zofia Czernow.]] Sorry, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I want to bring up two things. The first is a matter of good legislation. Minister! At today's meeting of the Sejm in the plenary room, three projects are being considered concerning amendments to the Individual Income Tax Act. It's like... I don't know... [[Abstract.]] It brings chaos and mess. The current draft proposes to repeal the provision governing the right to preferential taxation of income settlement of spouses and single parents, subject to timely submission of a tax return. And yet this morning we talked about settlements and reliefs at PIT. This is ridiculous at all. Second thing. What compensation will local authorities receive for income reduction [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the CIT tax? After all, the minister was just talking about how to take care of local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u184	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is worth noting that these proposals - I am talking about real estate sales - do not eliminate the pathology associated with property taxation. It is primarily about the so-called. Report relief introduced during the PiS rule in 2005 This is a serious problem, also in terms of social justice. It is worth noting that in the case of real estate sales we are currently dealing with three facts, depending on when the property was acquired: if before 2006, the tax is 10% revenue, but it is possible to deduct housing expenditure if in 2006-2008 - 19% , but is entitled to a reportable discount, in turn for real estate purchased since 2009 - 19% income and deduction of housing expenditure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, is the government going to do something about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to address one question to you, which concerns complicated rules regarding the accounting of the use of a passenger car for business purposes. Let me remind you that most micro-entrepreneurs use this car and this is the most important component - I will say in general - of their businesses. So thanks to car vehicles, these entrepreneurs can make money. It's not like in the case of officials sitting behind desks, having comfortable chairs, computers and everything, and drinking coffee. The entrepreneurs in question often live in cars, most of the time during the day. My question is: How much government will pull out of business pockets by applying regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] as amended by this law on the accounting of a car for corporate use? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say, Minister, that your curial appeal to Members of the Law and Justice to reject the Modern Project unfortunately, I fear, has not arrived, given the incredible turnout in this Chamber today and the involvement of Members of the Law and Justice in the debate on tax facilitation for Polish entrepreneurs. Honestly, I think they broke the record today. The Member who has reached us is the only representative. I have a question: Will you officially issue a letter to Members of the Law and Justice so that they know that they are to reject a very good modern project? At the same time, I would suggest that you continue to write that they should not be confused that your project should be voted in favour. I'll be honest with you, sir, the suggestion has really upset us. On the other hand, I am deeply sorry that the Members of the Law and Justice are treating their work in this way. I would like to point out that there are no meetings today because the marshal has forbidden it. I hope that the next ban will apply to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the Members of the Law and Justice Party do not carry out electoral agitation during the deliberations of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u190	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Proceding over three Income Tax laws at the same time It's actually a display of either courage or stupidity. Unfortunately, it is not possible to judge the prudentness of the state because we have only just improved the WOPR and GOPR law. As the minister himself admitted, he was hoping that WOPR and GOPR would be able to obtain proper permits, but it turned out that they did not make it and we had to correct them. I am afraid that in the chaos of many threads that you are taking, in this case it will be similar. But I have a question for the applicant of this modern project, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloski, because I understand from Mr PiS's statement that he considers the Modern Act to be consummated by the Government Act. It doesn't seem that way to me, especially when it comes to divorce and separation. And my question to you is this: Is it really so that this law goes on? What does she offer and why is it important for Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u191	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I will refer to questions that were substantive in nature. The first question was about divorce and separation. Our project predicts that the 5-year term counts from the moment of the acquisition of the property or the construction of this property in the community. The subsequent abolition of this community as a result of divorce or separation does not mean that the term ceases to count. So... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You do not know the caselaw in this case.]] ...our project provides that both divorces and separations will be counted from the moment of acquisition or construction within the statutory community. Another issue was the reduction of CIT to 9%. The question referred to the limit of 2 million - whether this is the result of a mess or an oversight. This is not the result of a mess or omission, it is our conscious decision that we want this 9 percent very low rate, really rare in developed countries, to apply only and exclusively to revenues that do not exceed the equivalent of 1200 thousand. Euros. To clarify this a little bit, I will say that this limit in our project will be calculated on the net amount, i.e. it will not include this amount of VAT. The third question was whether it would be better to re-establish in the new Tax Order a material legal term. This is a matter... that's what the new Tax Order is planning to do. I'm working on a new Tax Order, too, and that's the solution we're going to put in. On the other hand, we felt that it was better not to wait for the new Tax Order, that it was better just to introduce this solution, which allows spouses and single parents to benefit from common accounting as soon as possible. This solution for the restoration of the material legal term will be applicable to other issues where such a restoration would be desirable, and here it seems to us that for social reasons, however, it would be worth speeding up and hence this presentation which I have discussed here today. Another issue is the issue of passenger cars. I understand that you're assuming that at the moment it is so that the entrepreneur can deduct 100% the costs resulting from the use of the car, while we introduce as if a limitation, because we say: it can only deduct 75%. It's not like that. In practice, the situation is now in such a way that the trader can deduct as much as is related to income. So if he uses the car in its entirety to conduct business and does not use it for private purposes, then he can actually deduct 100% costs. However, if it were to come, say, tax control and really wanted to see if it was using it for business purposes, it might not be. That's why I think this is our solution, which allows us to deduct 75%. costs without documentation, is an orderly and business-friendly solution. On the other hand, those entrepreneurs who, as you said, use the car almost 24 hours a day in such a way that they sleep in it that they carry out this activity and use it as an office will indeed be able to deduct 100% expenditure. I apologize for my slip on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - I should have said: micro-entrepreneurs, and this is really about small taxpayers. That's the truth. That's what I should have said. This concerns small taxpayers, not medium-sized or small entrepreneurs within the meaning of Business Law. There was a question about the reporter's release. Our estimates indicate that this problem concerns about 15% taxpayers. We'll look into it and consider what we can do about it. We've been thinking about that, and we haven't yet prepared a solution to this problem about, let's say, 15%. - I don't know if these estimates are correct, so I'm saying about. Let's see if there's actually a simple solution here. The next question is how much we're going to pull out of entrepreneurs' pockets because we're going to introduce, as I understand it, these requirements for... this limit of 150,000. or that deduction which is related to the limitation - up to 75% expenditure. It's not like we're pulling something out of entrepreneurs' pockets. We're raising the limit on cars that have been frozen for a very long time. I don't know, since I started taxing, I think that limit was about 80,000, 20,000. The euro was equivalent to about 80,000. zł. Therefore, it seems to me that raising this limit to 150 thousand. evil is a reality of the situation, but I also think that most micro-entrepreneurs do not buy such expensive cars in practice. I think it's a $150,000 limit. is such a limit, which is easy to rationally justify, because it actually allows for the purchase of a quite decent car and the cost of this expenditure, which is, as you rightly claim, in many cases this basic component of the micro-company. As for the Modern Project, I appreciate your work on this project and I appreciate your leaning on this problem. In my speech, I wanted to say that our project contains the solutions you are proposing and goes on, i.e. proposes solutions that are a little further along the lines of the project, giving greater cost deductions than those you proposed in your project. That's why I think our project is better because of it. So in the project that we submit in print no.2854, we propose that in the event of the sale acquired by inheritance of real estate, this 5-year period should be counted from the end of the calendar year in which the estate was acquired or built by the heirs. In the event of disposal after the cessation of the matrimonial property communiqué acquired into the joint assets or built during the duration of the matrimonial property communiqué, this period of five years shall also be calculated from the end of the calendar year in which they were acquired into the joint property of the spouses or their construction. These are solutions that are similar, the same. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: What about children and grandchildren?]] Children and grandchildren, if they inherit, will count from the moment... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: These are the successors. This isn't a property community.]] Yeah, but I'm talking in the first... I take it we're talking about acquisition by inheritance, aren't we? Thus, the successions, as they acquire through inheritance, take into account the period that affected the heirs. This solution therefore provides for the case that you have now mentioned here. In addition, our printing project 2854 gives the heirs the right to credit the tax costs of those expenses which have been incurred by the heir for the acquisition or construction, i.e. those expenses which have not yet been disclosed in the sense that he has incurred these expenses. In a normal case, in this state that is now, they would be as if they were lost, wouldn't they? However, we propose, as if to inherit also the cost which the heir suffered, right? Another point that we are proposing is to take into account debts and inheritance burdens as revenue costs. In a normal situation, the heir who inherits receives not only assets but also liabilities, right? We propose that these liabilities be costs when the heir sells. It seems to me that this project is more comprehensive in this respect - maybe let's put it this way - and better solves the problems that arise in the inheritance of real estate. So that thank you for your attention and I hope that these explanations will be helpful. We have such an approach in the Ministry of Finance that if you ask me something whether it's by interpellation or otherwise, we answer these questions. If you have any questions, please contact me on the way whether it's formal or simply informal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u193	Thank you very much. Please, the representative of the applicants, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My doubts about divorces and separations have not been resolved to some extent at all. I do not know if the Minister has followed the caselaw of the courts in this regard. There, clearly, what led to a conflict of laws and unfavourable judgments in such cases to the State was that the courts recognised on the basis of existing law that the property community would cease when one of the spouses died, right? It was the main rule that the parties were pointing to. At this point, I have a huge problem with whether the courts will still consider that, nevertheless, this property association ceases at the time of divorce or separation, but frankly, I do not know your records in detail, so I will simply review them. There would be no problem, Minister, if both projects were to go to committee, and if we had the opportunity to discuss the subject of accomplices, children, grandchildren, grandkids... [[Divorced.]] ...we'd have an opportunity to discuss successions, divorces, separations. On the other hand, your movement, rather authoritarian, which causes one project to go and the other not to just own the changes made and say that the PiS gives something to Poles, not that we worked together on something here... [[They just called for reconciliation.]] Yes. ...unfortunately, this project will be lost. If it turns out that one of the areas is not regulated, it can significantly affect even for unequal treatment further to citizens, because whether the decline or divorce or separation have the same effect for citizens often on tax and property, because somewhere there this weakening of the financial position of the household in these three cases is often getting worse. As I said, in the life of both spouses, we usually have two influences for the household, and in the case of death there is often one chosen, higher. The same is true of divorce or separation. And very often one of the parties, so may happen, the victim in a given relationship has a much lower income and then has a problem to pay for, maintain the property that the court will grant her for use, for example with child care, and is forced to dispose of. So this is an extremely important matter, which absolutely at this point... It has a marginal impact on the state budget. Because I think the Minister realizes that this bow towards the citizens or citizens of our country in this area There is little damage to the state budget, and many Poles at a difficult time in life can really help solve the problem. So if it turns out that your legislation does not regulate it, and I will look at it quite closely, then I will simply have to make appropriate amendments at the stage of the parliamentary committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u195	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 2854, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. The discussion also requested that the draft law in print No 2852 be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Order Act and some other laws (print No 2860). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal to amend the laws on income taxes on individuals, corporates and tax administrations provides for certain simplifications in relation to income taxes and, in general, the sealing of the tax system, also implements certain EU directives to some extent. As far as simplification is concerned, or in general the compatibility of the system, these provisions contain comprehensive transfer pricing regulation. This is a regulation that is substantively difficult. We have taken the effort to simplify this regulation and to make it more transparent, above all on legislative issues, by eliminating the bunk references contained in the current legislation. And this regulation that we propose in terms of transfer pricing is really much easier to understand even for an average person, for an average reader than what is in the current regulations. Furthermore, this regulation is linked to such a technological leap, as we propose here an automatic analysis of transfer pricing data, within the framework of, say, reporting documentation, reporting information on transfer pricing applied by taxpayers and on transactions with tax havens. The second important thing is to introduce certain simplifications or friendly solutions for taxpayers. This friendly solution is IP Box, i.e. preferential taxation of income derived from intellectual property. This is a solution to push the Polish economy a little bit towards a more knowledge-based economy, and it is a solution that is internationally accepted by both the OECD and the European Commission, which is being applied in many other countries. In addition, there are a number of such simplifications, facilitations, for example, concerning the acquisition of debt packages, tax write-offs for cooperative banks making payments to the institutional protection system. We will also introduce a very important simplification on collection, in fact the exemption for withholding tax on interest paid on Eurobonds. This is a solution which aims to gather more external financing on the Polish market and facilitate large economic operators to look for this funding outside. In this way we also hope that there will be more credit for smaller companies in Poland. In addition, we are also introducing a completely new regulation on the taxation of income from virtual currencies. As regards the sealing of the tax system, this project provides for the introduction of mandatory reporting of optimization schemes, i.e. a situation in which professionals who advise on how to reduce taxation, often unfortunately using artificial tax structures... We want such plans to be reported to the National Tax Administration. The result of this notification will be an increase in knowledge of planned optimization schemes, as well as the discouragement of these optimizers to apply tax optimization, I would stress the wording: aggressive tax optimization. We will also introduce changes regarding the sealing of the source tax collection system, so-called. royalty tax, dividends and interest. We will introduce a different way of collecting taxes in case of large payments. We want to have more control over what money comes out of Poland. The point is whether they are taxed correctly. We want to have more control over it. We want to be more active in this area. This law provides for e.g. actively using the exchange of tax information by the Polish tax administration. We also introduce sealing changes in the anti-tax avoidance clause, as well as sealing changes in foreign controlled entities, namely CFCs. I will briefly present these solutions, which I mainly discussed here in general. As far as transfer prices are concerned, we are reducing documentation obligations. We extend our reporting deadlines, which means we actually make them real, from 3 to 12 months. We are introducing some facilitations and exemptions for documentation. This law also aims to bring our regulations and documentation requirements into line with the requirements imposed by the OECD. There are some simplifications regarding the rules of settlement, so-called. safe harbors. We comprehensively regulate the rules on the use of market prices in transactions with related parties. We are actually introducing non-existent rules on transfer pricing adjustment. The rules for the correction of invoices were used, but they are not entirely the same. First of all, what is important from the point of view of sealing, we introduce modern reporting principles based on computer systems and macro data analysis, which we will obtain with these reports. We also harmonise certain concepts used in the law. With regard to IP Box, we introduce a 5% rate of taxation of intellectual property income. This is very important because the Polish relief offered by us in this area will be one of the best in Europe. It aims to increase the attractiveness of R &amp; D activities in Poland and to increase employment and stimulate investment in R &amp; D. Such solutions are present in other countries. We introduce a solution, which is a very beneficial solution, because it covers a very broad spectrum of intellectual rights: the right to an invention, the protection right to a utility model, the right resulting from the registration of an industrial design, the topography of a integrated circuit, additional protection rights concerning patents for medicinal products or plant protection products, the right to register a medicinal product and a veterinary treatment product which are authorised to market, and other rights, also relevant copyrights for a computer program. An important feature of this relief, so-called. The relief from IP Box is that we're going to want this revenue to come from the commercialization of intellectual property rights. We want this 5% stake actually contributed to the development of R &amp; D activities. We are also introducing simplification solutions, e.g. concerning the acquisition of sets of claims. We are simplifying some unfavorable provisions on the current rules. As far as cooperative banks are concerned, we are introducing a 50% deduction, a reduction in the tax base for this system of institutional protection. Rules for the taxation of virtual currencies. Since virtual currency trading is an increasingly growing area, we want this exchange as a virtual exchange to remain tax-neutral, while we will tax income from these currencies, i.e. revenue valued as money considered a legal means of payment. An alternative bond taxation system is a solution that will drive large players to look for funding in the eurobonds market. We will abolish taxation at source because we are most often faced with the situation that entities issue Eurobonds to a distributed owner, i.e. for those with whom we do not have contact, often we do not know where their residence is. It is difficult to obtain information that allows the application of tax concessions. We also foresee some abolition arrangements for taxpayers who have already benefited early from this issue of Eurobonds and have applied tax optimization. We are introducing reporting of optimization schemes, as I have already mentioned. These are the solutions implementing Directive 2011/16, which is true to say that we are exchanging information on cross-border schemes, but this is because the European Union has competence in cross-border issues. However, this does not mean that we cannot put in place such reporting in the case of domestic transactions, and such reporting in respect of domestic transactions, we are also introducing, because we want our tax authorities to be at least as well informed about the optimisation schemes as they will be informed to the authorities of the Member States of the European Union for which we will also collect and then forward this information to them in relation to cross-border schemes. The action we are taking also implements the OECD Recommendation to counter the erosion of the tax base. We're making changes to the collection of withholding tax at source. As I said, we intend to introduce greater supervision of large payments, which cause a significant outflow in the tax base from Poland, and we want to control whether the conditions for the benefits provided for by the European directives and the reductions provided for by the double taxation agreements are maintained. As regards the anti-tax avoidance clause, we are partially implementing European Union Directive 2016/1164 called ATAD, namely Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. We are introducing additional solutions to seal this clause, i.e. sanctions for income, which will be defined as revenue from aggressive tax optimization. This sanction is going to be 10%. that kind of income. In other countries, these sanctions are much higher, e.g. France applies the rate of 80% Depleting height, New Zealand - from 20% to 150% Follow-up, Ireland - 30% backlog, United Kingdom - 60% tax arrears. So I don't think our sanction is going very far. Importantly, we are introducing the possibility of reversing the effects of optimization. We are also introducing an exit tax or exit tax solution. This solution also introduces the ATAD Directive into the Polish tax system. However, in our project, I admit, we extend this solution to individuals. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many European countries also apply such a solution to individuals and that our solution is aimed at fair taxation of the value that was created in Poland. Transfer of assets outside Poland or transfer of tax residence outside Poland causes us to lose this right. Hence we introduce taxation on exit tax, but we also introduce reliefs, e.g. The relief is that if someone decides to return to the country within 5 years, this tax will be refunded. Thank you for listening, and I'm asking you questions. If you have any questions, I would be happy to answer and explain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Order Act and some other laws, the Seym No. 2860. It should be noted that the draft submitted by the Government of Law and Justice is part of a package of legislative measures aimed primarily at sealing the tax system and, in particular, income tax, so as to ensure that the tax paid by large international companies is linked to the actual place of their income - in other words, as the Minister said, if the company's income is generated in Poland, by Polish employees, then the tax should be paid here - as well as the simplification of tax law in the field of CIT and PIT taxes. The objectives of this draft law are in line with the implementation of the "Strategy for Responsible Development' adopted by the Government in 2017. The project also includes a partial implementation of EU directives. The Minister discussed in very detail the scope of the Act, including the partial implementation of Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164 introducing provisions to combat tax avoidance practices. Previously, this problem had not been seen in the European Union or was not wanted to see and make profits, among others. for tax havens such as Cyprus and Luxembourg was a daily occurrence. At the same time, we introduce an obligation for tax authorities to disclose information about tax systems. Importantly, we are introducing an alternative way of charging Eurobonds. Different arrangements are proposed for the issuance of bonds made before and after 1 January 2019. Importantly, this is a proposal for preferential taxation of income earned by rights holders of widely understood intellectual property. This is the main goal, an incentive for Polish entrepreneurs, Polish producers to focus on development and knowledge, on research and development. With this aim, we will create a strong economy, an innovative economy. Business preferences are the rate of 5% taxation of income generated from broadly understood intellectual property. We also introduce specific arrangements for the acquisition by economic operators of sets of claims. A long-awaited relief is also proposed for cooperative banks that make contributions to the intellectual protection system. Importantly, the bill introduces a number of changes concerning taxes on PIT and CIT, which comprehensively regulate the taxation of revenue generated from cryptovalut trade. We haven't had that kind of regulation so far. The proposed solution simplifies transfer pricing rules, including in particular the alignment of transfer pricing instruments with the latest OECD guidelines. It also introduces a flat-rate income tax exemption on debts paid by the national bank for the management of foreign exchange reserves. It is therefore a comprehensive bill, another to seal the tax system and at the same time introduce preferential tax rates. The government assumes that these provisions will enter on 1 January. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club fully supports print records No 2860. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u199	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is about 180 pages long, 280 pages long. I'm negative about the fact that the clubs have five minutes to make the evaluation. This shows the government's advantage over the Sejm, reducing the role of the Sejm in this regard. [[With such a variety of subjects.]] In my speech, of course, I will present only selected regulations and evaluations. Exit tax first. These changes are the implementation of the ATAD Directive, as the Minister said. But our designer decided to tighten the tax conditions of the directive. First of all, natural persons have been taxed, whereas this directive does not provide for such taxation. Yes, there are countries where there are individuals, but there are countries, and there are many countries where there are not. In addition, the proposal provides for taxation regardless of whether emigration is intended to abuse tax law or is dictated by other considerations. The distribution provided for by the project, the method of payment, may be shorter, may be incompatible with Union law. A better solution under the law of the Union and the Polish Constitution would be the deferral of direct tax, which would consist in the obligation to pay it only at the time of the actual disposal of assets. Moreover, it is not possible for the taxable person to take into account the loss that would have arisen if the State of entry had also imposed a tax. Now pass on the schematics information. The project introduces a reporting obligation, which is to be burdened, among others. on tax advisors, lawyers, legal counsels, other entities. Of course, mandatory reporting is intended to discourage taxpayers from tax avoidance. But here's the problem with the mystery of certain professions. I would like to say that tax advisors assess this in this way: The analysis of the project leads to the conclusion that the proposed changes illegally enter into the matter of professional secrecy, which is linked to the professionals of public confidence. Next - an additional tax liability. Among the new rules, the new chapter 6a of the ordination, which is devoted to an additional tax obligation, draws attention. It will be determined by the tax authority at the same time as the decision concerning inter alia. the anti-tax avoidance clause for measures limiting the contractual benefits or set out in the amendment of the income tax laws. The additional commitment will amount to 40% of the amount of the benefit. The Minister was also talking about 10%. income in other cases. I'm not going to discuss it further, because I want to say a few more things. Changes in individual interpretations. The project contains limitations on the interpretation of individual tax laws. Another matter that the Minister spoke of - the withholding tax. It's been presented, and I'm sure the government wants more control. Only the Minister didn't tell us what the consequences were for taxpayers. Well, a taxpayer who has the right either to an exemption or to a reduced tax rate, suddenly - perhaps not suddenly, because it will result from the rules - turns out to have to pay this tax, as if it did not exist at all. And then what's he gonna do? Then he's gonna apply for his due back. He's gonna apply for a refund. How does he perform when he gets it? It says right away. What does that mean? Six months. But it could be a lot more, because the rules indicate that the tax authority can extend it. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is what these regulations look like. Because of the circumstances that I noticed at the beginning - I no longer have time to commend, because some things there actually deserve a positive assessment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But here the microphone will be turned off because your marshal has such a habit, so thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u201	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u202	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the Government bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws, print No 2860. At the beginning, the conclusion on the amount of personal income tax contributions. This has already been mentioned here, but it should be repeated, because this is a particularly shocking case. At today's meeting we have three different projects on personal income tax. This indicates that the Ministry of Finance does not control the so-called. legislative diarrhea, which concerns taxes. Moreover, this submission, which we are currently discussing, concerns changes in 13 different legal acts and is very extensive. Indeed, it is difficult here in a five-minute speech to refer to all the elements related to this submission. But in the justification for this project we read that this presentation is supposed to implement the philosophy of 3 x P, i.e. a simple, transparent and friendly tax system. Minister, what is a simple and friendly tax system for an entrepreneur when you introduce additional tax charges on entry, and when these rules are introduced from 1 January 2019, i.e. in a very short period the taxpayer is to adapt, prepare for the possible implementation of those rules. I understand that this is related to the implementation of the EU directive, but this is, I think, the implementation of the EU directives. Here, this ATAD Directive imposes an obligation to impose exit tax only on capital companies subject to CIT tax. On the other hand, and it was the Minister who, for the sake of fairness, admitted in his speech that the Polish government is expanding this action to individuals, and this is only a matter of our government. The Directive requires Member States to mobilise tax from 1 January 2020, and we have been doing so since 1 January 2019. As at the moment, the entrepreneur, and especially the entrepreneur who would like to invest in Poland, will receive tax changes of this kind, which in addition introduce in the laws a number of other unfriendly restrictions on taxpayers, among others. related to a tax evasion clause? The proposed project leads to an extension of the anti-tax avoidance clause, which may result in the fact that even economically and economically justified activities of the taxpayer may be regarded as tax avoidance if they are accompanied by a tax advantage, unless it is of little importance. Such a formulation could lead to the possibility for a taxpayer to be deprived of the world-wide principle of freedom of tax avoidance, the essence of which is that the taxpayer has the right to choose an optimal tax route for real economic purposes - real economic purposes. However, here, by extending this clause, you also want to introduce, among others. new powers for the head of the National Tax Administration relating to the establishment of an additional tax obligation, but also the limitation or repeal of individual interpretations. Is it tax-friendly? Well, it's hard to accept. And another thing - restricting or disabling the professional secrecy of a counsellor, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a lawyer or tax advisor on reporting related to the tax system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish Party...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u204	All these assumptions, unfortunately, are significantly obscuring the good elements... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...which also appear in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u205	... Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to take part in the first reading of the government bill amending the Act on Personal Income Tax, the Act on Corporate Income Tax, the Tax Order and some other laws contained in Seym Printing No 2860. We have been interested in the most important solutions related to the simplification of tax law contained in this submission. Undoubtedly, they include changes in transfer pricing rules, as well as a reduction in bureaucratic and administrative burdens for businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. The solutions also seal the tax system. The project envisages preferential taxation of income generated by intellectual property rights, introducing specific arrangements for economic operators to purchase sets of claims or introducing relief for cooperative banks making payments to the Institutional Protection System. The proposed amendments also include mandatory disclosure of tax schemes, changes in withholding tax, changes in the general clause against tax avoidance. In addition, the project also provides for changes to the catalogue of corporate tax exemptions for the flat-rate income tax exemption paid by NBP in connection with the statutory task which the central bank carries out in the public interest under the Law on the Management of Foreign Exchange Reserves, as well as changes to the extension of the scope of the exemption for investment funds. With regard to transfer pricing developments, it is proposed here, among others. reduction of documentation obligations. There is an increase in the documentary thresholds, after which the obligation to draw up transfer pricing documentation arises. This solution will significantly reduce the responsibilities of most taxpayers, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The mechanism for setting thresholds will also change, which will be much easier to apply. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of the project being proceded in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u207	Thank you. Mr Richard Petru, Circle of Liberal and Social Members, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address mainly the issue of exit tax in this project. It's the beginning of October. In 3 months' time, Poland will have a completely different tax law in several areas. You will admit that this is not a way for entrepreneurs in this country to forecast, plan their investments if tax law changes so rapidly. This is to a large extent a surprise to them, because the information about this law has come to light in connection with my interpellation from the summer of this year. This is contrary to the business constitution, the principles of a good relationship between entrepreneurs and the government. As a rule, in a country where we should support investment, support innovation, the vacathio legis of tax changes should be 2 years, not really less than a month. I have a series of questions for you and I would like a precise answer. Firstly, why should this law be introduced in 2019 when the EU directive is talking about 2020? It is usually the case that the Polish government is known for delaying the introduction of EU law, and here, in terms of money, money into the budget that is missing, there is a sudden acceleration. Secondly, I have a question - I will repeat it because my previous speakers spoke about it - why does exit tax, i.e. exit tax, apply to individuals? Is it a fiscal issue or are you afraid to escape Poles from Poland because of the PiS government? I have some specific questions. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have an example. This is the situation: there is a person, son of an entrepreneur who inherits or receives a share donation and goes abroad to learn, is it the tax office that will decide whether he has left permanently, or will you ask him? Because there is a concern that any person who temporarily moves his or her place of residence abroad may be taxed with such a 19 percent tax. The question is, will you return the money to him when he gets back or not? [[Voice from the room: With a percentage.]] Will you ever pay me back? Second line. Do you not think that this law will limit the foreign expansion of Polish companies and actually favour international companies? Prime Minister Morawiecki, as we know, is a supporter of international companies, promotes them in Poland. But imagine that the Polish company invests in Ukraine, in the Czech Republic or in Slovakia, as time passes, it transfers more and more of its assets in this direction. What guarantees do you give him that these assets transferred to Ukraine or Slovakia will not be taxed on 19 percent tax? It's not in the bill. I've consulted with entrepreneurs, and I know there's such a fear. Namely, this would mean that any Polish investment abroad could generate a risk of 19 percent tax. It's every businessman 15 times to wonder if it wouldn't be better to just start a business abroad right away and start their business there. The question is, as far as this exit tax is concerned, is this an idea related to fiscal issues, i.e. how to patch the budget hole, or is it a tax introduced to tie the Pole to the ground, and is a reaction to the fact that many Polish entrepreneurs, seeing what is happening with the Polish judiciary, seeing the unpredictability of the decisions of Polish courts, move their assets abroad? Are you aware that now foundations are being created on the basis of foreign law, where Polish entrepreneurs move their assets, further paying taxes here, but separating the person from the property? This will avoid this exit tax. Are you aware of this? Are you aware that many Poles who hold shares on the Polish stock exchange have already done so? Therefore, the question is this: Would it not be better for this law - my previous speakers here spoke about its errors and imperfections - which has 150 pages of very detailed rules, contains a lot of ambiguities and gives the tax office enormous opportunities for tax interpretation, so to proceed, taking into account normal consultation, so that it can, in accordance with the Directive, enter into force in 2020? Notice that, in fact, once again, you are giving more and more room for manoeuvre to the tax office when it comes to interpretation. That's what made a big part of the electorate go to the Civic Platform. That's exactly what you're saying, actually eliminating the possibility of a binding tax interpretation. I would like to hear specific answers to my questions without resorting to generals. Secondly, if I may, I appeal to you for reason. Such a law should not be adopted at such a rate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u209	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum, you clearly state that the introduction of new rules on the establishment of an additional tax liability, so-called. sanctions, where a decision is taken under a clause, should lead indirectly to an increase in taxable persons' interest in obtaining a protective opinion. Do you really think that such legislation is business-friendly? The security opinion is 20,000. zł. Here's another thing. A tax avoidance clause was introduced in 2016. How many decisions did the finance minister make? What were the influences of these decisions? How many protective opinions were issued under the anti-tax avoidance clause? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u211	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As far as I understand it correctly, the intellectual property tax is to be set at 5%. You said this was the most favourable level compared to other countries. I would like to ask for a comparison of some examples of the level of such taxes in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u213	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u214	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Although it is said that up to three times the trick, I was in vain looking in this third income tax project to mention an increase in the tax-free amount. Unfortunately, it's not there. Of course, the first question to you is: Why isn't it there? The second question is about positives. I think innovation box is a directionally good idea. In all kinds of surveys that appear in analyses of our innovative situation, we are at the end. I think it's a good thing you went that way. I wanted to ask: What are the expected results? Do you have a scheduled quantity, e.g. increased number of patents, commercialisation of ideas? Is this somehow Quantified, and what will result? The last question unfortunately concerns the extension of exit tax to individuals. Is it related to the fact that you have in your plan to get Poland out of the European Union, i.e. the so-called. polyxit, and you're afraid that many people will just want to leave Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u215	The question is now asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister said that in several cases his actions were driven by the willingness to control taxpayers. It's understandable. However, I would suggest that the Ministry should have a controlled design process. The point is, it's not that we suddenly have three projects to change income taxes. Therefore, the question is whether the Ministry plans to build any concept of tax policy, or, say, in a few weeks' time, we will have eight changes in income taxes by noon, and in the afternoon three changes in the tax on goods and services and two changes in local taxes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u217	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to topics that have already been discussed. Well, in Poland we are dealing with a permanent state of uncertainty in the field of tax law. The trader cannot be sure that those rules that apply at the beginning of the year will also apply at the beginning of next year. They change relatively often. This lack of trust is characterised by a dramatically low level of investment. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether this is not the case and whether you are concerned that such a rapid implementation of these provisions will cause an even greater collapse in the field of investment, because today mostly local governments and the state budget dominate in this area, while private investment unfortunately constitutes, I would say, a ball and chain, and should be a flywheel. So shouldn't such legislation be implemented well in advance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what would make it easier for entrepreneurs to get involved in this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u219	Thank you, sir. We've exhausted the questioning formula. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the questions asked in the discussion. I would like to address your comments and questions. I'll start with Professor Nykiel's statement. The fact is that as far as exit tax is concerned, we are extending it to individuals and considering the distribution of payments, as the professor here mentioned. I mean, no. We have spread the payment into instalments in this project, while we have considered deferring taxation. This is a difficult issue, because the deferral in this case unfortunately is a tool that de facto causes the loss of tax power, and we are not able to enforce this obligation after, say, moving the residence abroad. Professor and other Members have asked questions about reporting tax schemes and the secrecy of regulated professions. We have conducted a very extensive pre-consultation. In December 2017, we completed a pre-consultation on the secrecy of regulated professions and took into account the most important probably request from regulated professionals - so that there is no mandatory reporting of the scheme in the case of regulated professions, just to make it possible to choose. The point is that when someone who does a regulated profession asks the customer if he can give up this secret and report it, the customer decides whether he reports himself or whether he allows it to be done by a professional. In both cases, we made a duty for a professional to assist a client to prepare this report. As far as sanctions are concerned, here were questions about whether it even worked, how many decisions there were and how many protective opinions there were. Ladies and gentlemen, the anti-tax avoidance clause operates in such a way that it is applied daily by professionals: auditors, auditors, tax advisers, lawyers, legal advisers, because they realise that such legislation is in the Polish system. If someone is an honest, good professional, they will not expose their client to creating artificial structures, transferring assets to artificially created foundations, to foreign companies that do not carry out any actual activity. That's how the clause works. As regards the question of how many of these decisions were, there was currently no decision based on the general anti-tax avoidance clause. But she, like I said, functions through it... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There were two protective opinions and two probably negative opinions. I'm not sure, but I can check it out. [[Yes.]] Now for questions about exit tax. We assume that we have the right to tax the increase in the value of assets that occurred in Poland. As for business planning, if someone is planning a business activity in such a way that they want to change their residence, then of course It's possible, it can change its residence. It's okay. On the other hand, if someone plans to do his business in such a way that he wants to change his residence and actually conduct his business in Poland, that is, he wants to benefit from the benefits of the system, which gives him e.g. 2% taxation because it changed residence, but in fact all assets are in Poland, it is not... This is tax optimisation. This is an attempt to show that when I'm in a better system, I want to pay 2%. No. If someone is active in Poland, they pay according to Polish rules. That rule remains. As regards exit tax for the transfer, as Mr Richard Petru mentioned here, the exit in the sense that we are transferring assets, again this is a bit of a misunderstanding. If we make a direct investment abroad, we include shares or shares in the company, i.e. we transfer assets, we can transfer assets, for example. to Ukraine, we create a company there, we receive shares for it, that is okay, because this does not cause the property to be removed from Poland. However, if someone transfers assets in such a way that they physically dismantles the factory that they have in Poland, transfers these assets abroad and creates jobs there, then okay, that is his right, that is his choice. It takes on the risks associated with that market, takes on the risks associated with that legal system. It's okay, it's okay to do that, we just want to have the right to tax any value that has grown on these assets at a time when they were in Poland. There were quite a lot of questions, so why don't we do that so that I don't answer questions right now, during the oral answer, I'll prepare written answers. [[It's about individuals.]] About the naturals. Good. Why are we extending this to individuals? Because, as Mr Petru pointed out here, there is indeed such a phenomenon that individuals form foreign foundations and transfer their assets there. It's an undesirable phenomenon because they don't do it... See, we have introduced the most liberal rules in terms of taxation of succession. There is no tax on succession in the family between loved ones, whether inheritance or donation. And now someone's telling me that he's creating a foreign foundation in Liechtenstein, because this foundation better protects his succession rights. We have introduced a bill on business succession, this law is already in place. From a civil-law point of view, it is secured, from a tax point of view there is no tax on the transfer of assets between family members. So, what kind of business is it that's protected by someone who's moving their assets to a foreign foundation in Liechtenstein? It is intended to counteract this tax, the taxation of assets in the event of a transfer by a natural person abroad. Here I must point out that we are only talking about financial assets, shares, shares in companies, not that you will move out in the sense that you will take a car and family and leave to find happiness in another, cooler system. It's okay, you can do that, only that if someone has a property quite important, because we introduced this exit tax only from the property, which exceeds 4 million PLN... All of us here, in this Chamber, and in general all Poles wish such property at today's prices and according to today's value of this money, that everyone should have so much, but at the moment it is not common, that someone has such property in liquid, financial assets, i.e. shares, shares, bonds. There was a question here concerning e.g. moving implementation times, why we are doing this in 2019 and not waiting for 2020. This is because there has been a situation in recent years that many have moved their wealth. We know that's what happened. They transferred their assets to foundations, which we believe to be foundations aimed at tax planning, to aggressive tax optimization. We want to put an end to this as soon as possible. Now as to why we impose it on individuals and why the European Union only imposes it on companies, it is because the European Union has no competence to impose it on individuals. This is our sovereign decision, every country that imposed this tax. By the way, this is perhaps 10 developed countries which imposed an exit tax. And we're putting it on the basis of our sovereign decision, because we want to protect our tax base from erosion. It's simple. As for the fact that we are doing this in 2019 and not in 2020, this is because we want to have it introduced faster. That's why we do it in 2019. We also know that if we had done this in 2020, those who were actually planning to employ the Luxembourg or Liechtenstein foundation to manage Polish assets would certainly have done so. Because creating such an artificial structure is time-consuming. This requires the formation of companies, going to a notary, transferring assets, doing a number of consulting activities, obtaining valuations. It's not that simple, it's not easy. In fact, it's happening now and there's a race against time. The point is not to close up situations where someone really wants to bring out their assets in such a way that they do not tax the value that has grown on financial assets, for example. from the moment of their purchase to the moment of the transfer of the assets abroad. I would like to stress once again: We have no objection to moving assets abroad. We don't mind. We just want it to be a fair tax, and we don't want it to be a situation where someone's taking a fortune so they can cash it out later without paying that tax. Because this is something that this exit tax is about to counter. There is no such thing as chaos in tax legislation. We have several laws, because they relate to a few, let's say, thematic areas. The fact that these laws are so intertwined results in a large part of... [[There were changes before the entry into force.]] Yeah, but... I'm sorry. I'm just gonna finish. We do so because these changes are closely linked in a legislative way. Why, for example? This bill we're talking about now, is it that big? Because there's a lot of references to transfer pricing. And all these appeals, for example. exit tax, CFC regulation, must be linked. We correlate it. We have full control of what's going on in the Ministry of Legislative Affairs. I think I've referred to at least most of the questions that you... [[Effective innovation...]] Effective innovation box. I'll admit, I don't have all the information on how much. there will be patents or how much innovation there will be. I understand that it is the Member's interest in the context of the objectives, let us say, which we want to achieve. It is difficult for our economy to define such a prediction. [[Targets to be achieved.]] We have no record of that. We have data on the amount of funds that companies really invest and classify as innovative activities for the present time. We have, say, investments in research and development. However, we do not have a specific correlation between investment in R &amp; D and the number of patents registered. The answer to this question is that we do it because it is necessary. Because it has to be done. Because it is something without which the economy will not develop in this direction. What we are proposing is something that will direct the economy or give it an impulse to go in this direction. On the other hand, how many of these patents are actually going to be, I'm not able to say. I don't know if anyone can say it. Something like that. Are we expecting... Is this about getting Poland out of the European Union? Of course not. This regulation is completely unrelated to this. I don't know how to put this together at all. I know there's been speculation in the press. This is something very, very strange to me. Because we at the Ministry of Finance are working on this exit tax and suddenly we find out that our initiative has this kind of connotation. It's a totally weird association. I don't know where it comes from. As I say, the aim of this solution is solely to protect the tax base against erosion. And that's our job, that's what we do. Now the broader concept of tax policy. I think our concept tax policy is that we had to make a very big effort to seal the system first. We've done a lot of that, and we're gonna keep doing it, because it's not over yet. Actually, it's a process. It's like one pillar. The second pillar is that we want this system to be simple, friendly and transparent. This is the strategy we're going to pursue. We want to do it through e.g. separation of taxation of companies and individuals. We want to have a simple tax for ordinary people and a tax for companies that may be a little more complicated, but that's what professionals generally do. And we want this tax system to be easier to apply. We'll be spending more individual interpretations. We want the taxpayer to be sure how to apply tax law, i.e. the system will be simple, friendly and transparent in this regard. Thank you so much, and I hope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that if there are any further questions, we will answer them in writing or later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u221	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws, contained in print No. 2860, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 19 October 2018. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: 8. First reading of the government bill on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities (print No 2848). 9. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on assistance to independent individuals (print No 2771). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to present the justification for the bill, contained in print No 2848.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to present the justification of the Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, Parliamentary Printing No 2848. The act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities aims to introduce into the legal order a state special purpose fund without legal personality, which will focus on social, professional or health support for persons with disabilities. As you will remember, a few months ago the Prime Minister announced the creation of such a fund and today I am pleased to present to you a law which sets up such a fund. The need for regulation arises from the need to provide additional social, occupational or health support to disabled persons. We want the rehabilitation of people with disabilities to be comprehensive, to take into account all the support that a disability or a person with disabilities requires. Currently, support covers only selected aspects of professional and social activation, mainly through the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. In the meantime, people with disabilities often need more support to benefit from equal opportunities from different areas of life. The Fund will finance new tasks and new forms of support for persons with disabilities, as defined in the programmes of the Council of Ministers or the Minister responsible for social security respectively. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 3rd act indicates the fund's revenue catalogue. The main source of this revenue will be a mandatory contribution to the fund amounting to 0,15% the basis for the contribution to the Labour Fund and the solidarity tribute, which will be governed by the Personal Income Tax Act. The amount of the contribution to the Fund will be determined in the Budget Act on the same basis as the amount of the contribution to the Labour Fund. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 and 7 are talking about how the fund will be financed and what things will be implemented from the fund. Art. 6 states that the fund will primarily finance government and resorting programmes, including the implementation of the own tasks of local government units in support of people with disabilities. The second type of task will be to promote and support the support system for people with disabilities. The third task will be to address innovative solutions to support people with disabilities. Art. 7 talks about how this will be implemented. This will be implemented through government support programmes for people with disabilities. In addition, the Minister responsible for Social Security will be able to implement Resort support programmes for people with disabilities. According to Art. The 10th draft law will be drawn up by the Minister responsible for Social Security for the calendar year by an annual action plan to support people with disabilities, hereinafter referred to as the support plan. The support plan shall specify in particular the type of tasks or programmes to be carried out and the conditions for their implementation. This plan will be published annually by 30 November in the Public Information Bulletin in accordance with the draft law. At the same time, the support plan will be subject to extensive working consultation with the environment of people with disabilities. Art. The 11th bill tells us how tasks will be carried out. We're pointing to two modes here. One is the selection procedure, the other is open competitions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 We specify that the Minister responsible for social security may only order social, professional or health support for persons with disabilities to be carried out without the procedure for the selection of applications or open competitions if there is an important social interest or an important public interest. As far as the main tasks pursued by the fund are concerned, as I have already mentioned, they will be implemented through government and resorting programmes. In connection with the creation of the fund, the bill also introduces a number of amendments to separate laws, mainly in the law on enforcement in the administration, in the Act on income tax on individuals, in the Act on corporate income tax, in the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, in the Act on social security systems, in the Tax Code, in the Act on social assistance, in the Act on promotion of employment and labour market institutions, in the Act on the provision of public-funded health care and in the Act on liability for violation of public finances discipline. Art. 20 of the draft law amends the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax, hereinafter referred to as the Act of PIT. The main changes concern the essence of solidarity tribute, i.e. they specify in particular the entity, object and amount regulated in the added Chapter 6a of the Act on personal income tax. According to Chapter 6a of the PIT Act, the solidarity tribute will be 4%. the basis for its calculation and the deadline for its payment will be 30 April of the calendar year. The calculation of solidarity will be based on a surplus of more than PLN 1 million of the sum of taxable income under the rules laid down in Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 9 and 9a, Art. 30b, Art. 30c and Article 30c 30f PIT Act. In addition to these amendments to the various laws that allow the creation of the fund, Article. 32 We also propose that the Act should enter into force as announced by the Prime Minister on 1 January 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for kindness for this law, as in order for it to enter on 1 January 2019 it requires urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u223	Thank you. I ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz to present the justification for the bill contained in print 2771. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the draft Act on Help for Independents is a systemic and comprehensive solution in the field of care for Independents. It is the result, it must be made clear, really a few years of work of the working group, which was established at the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform under the leadership of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. It is based on a reliable diagnosis supported by many studies and expertise. Prof. Piotr Błędowski, who in 2014 developed an expert on the number of people in need of long-term support, makes an invaluable contribution to the preparation of these solutions. Thanks to the PolSenior study we know that as much as 95% The needy receive help from their loved ones, but we all know that family care opportunities are getting smaller because there are fewer and fewer multigenerational households. There is another labour market. Young people emigrate outside their home. All of this makes the family have limited opportunities to take care of their loved ones directly. It's not like they don't want to take care of their loved ones, they just change reality, they're different times, they go away, they have to work, they live somewhere else, while parents, grandparents stay in their homes. And it is indeed a problem for those who are close to them to witness to this help. The municipalities come here with their help, and although the number of people benefiting from the support of the municipalities is steadily increasing, this aid is insufficient. Why? It requires increasing funding from local governments, and not every local government can afford it. Yet, those who are independent require the same help regardless of their place of residence. There is also a lack of coordination between social assistance, health, labour market, case-law and pension systems in relation to the care of dependents today. This often leads to cost shifting between families, social assistance, health care, social assistance and local authorities. This aid is diverse, it's true, it's aid and financial, and it's material. Stationary care includes welfare homes, health care facilities, care and care facilities, daily residence homes. Environmental care, which he doesn't really use much, because more than 44,000. social assistance clients, however, do not reflect the amount of environmental care provided at the place of residence. From the data of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy itself in 2014 it was apparent that the care services themselves charged up to 105 thousand. persons, special periodic allowance - 14 thousand, care allowance - 76 thousand, care allowance received more than 927 thousand. persons. So we have many forms of support, but the problem is that it is either insufficient - in the case of financial assistance or it is difficult to access - in the case of services, as evidenced by queues, especially for care and care establishments, but also to social services homes. It should also be borne in mind that the payment for stays at the welfare home and in care and medical establishments is very different. On the other hand, we have another problem. Our potential carers are recruited to work abroad. Everywhere we hear all the various announcements that talk about employment, about the willingness to employ especially Poles, because it is mainly women who take up employment as carers in the Western countries of the Union. There are also caring negligence. There are cases of lonely people left unattended. The number of elderly and infirm is steadily increasing. High Izbo! In the next 20 years, the need for some forms of care will increase with increasing intensity, so that in 2035 there will be more than 2.5 million people. During the same period, care opportunities for loved ones will be reduced, as the number of women aged 50 will decrease, and mostly they, as I said earlier, are taking care of independent people over 80 years of age. The parents of sixty - year - olds will be 90 years old and over, so half of them will need care. It's not over yet. The rate of substitution for a pension will decrease significantly, especially now, after the retirement age has been reduced. Meanwhile, wages are the basic cost of caring services. So the question is: How much will we be able to buy for this future retirement hours care services for a loved one or how much will she be able to buy these services for herself? Retirement benefits can be bought less and less. The burden of care will also be difficult to bear by the municipality. Without changing the burden of self-government over a period of 10 years will double. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a great challenge. We're facing a huge problem. If we don't face this challenge today, which means the challenge of an ageing society... Along with the ageing population, unfortunately, there will be more and more people in need of help when they are independent. This project, I would like to stress very clearly, does not eliminate any of the benefits that have been made so far, but introduces new independent benefits. It is a care-care provision, a refund of telecare costs, a refund of the cost of care-care services. The basis for qualifying for benefits is only to be determined in the district disability assessment team. We are also very much looking forward to this government solution, which we have been hearing about for months, that it is to be introduced, regarding the degree of independence. He's not here yet, he's supposed to be in March, he's supposed to be in June this year, and we don't see him now, in October. The basis for qualifying is precisely this degree decided in the district team. Care and care services would be paid by means of a welfare check, today we are talking about its maximum value of 1,000. zł, from the checkbook issued by social assistance centres together with the decision to grant the benefit. The right to cover the costs of care and care services would be open to those self-employed persons whose carers are limited in scope, e.g. linking professional work and care. The effect of the law is to create a market rich in the offer of certified care and care services. In this market the assistants of independent individuals are to work. This new profession would result from the legalisation of today's undisclosed employment. Once upon a time, I remind you, the Civic Platform and PSL introduced them - we introduced them in the case of babysitting nannies and it works perfectly. Directly addressed to independent persons and their close care cheques and covering social and health insurance costs up to the minimum wage for an assistant to an independent, previously unemployed or job-seeking person, should lead to the legalisation of the employment of several hundred thousand informal carers. On the other hand, the personal care provider will be entitled to a replacement care refund. Further, in order to help workers who are severely ill and need care, we propose that the possibility of taking a free nursing leave be introduced. After a leave of absence, it would be guaranteed to return to work for a previously occupied post. The aim of these regulations is to increase the availability of care and care services and to help families care, but also to guarantee the quality of care. In order to create and monitor new solutions, we want to set up a Council for Independents with the Minister responsible for Social Security. The entry into force of the law would follow. In the first 2 years it would cover only people with first degree independence and then every 2 years with subsequent ones. The funding to finance services would come from the state budget. We estimate that the financial impact of this law would be over PLN 1 billion next year. As I said at the outset, this project is an absolutely systemic and comprehensive solution for the care of independent persons, if, as I would like to emphasise very strongly, we take into account, first, the existing forms of support and, second, the execution of the 2014 judgment. Because existing forms of support give, for example, parents can take care of children with disabilities, it is about paying care, which, I remind you, we have raised, so that today it is 1477 PLN, but there is no such possibility of caring for an adult disabled person. Therefore, no one else, but the Members of the Law and Justice in 2014 asked the Constitutional Court to give a judgment on this inequality. We did not have time to complete this solution, but we left the project ready on the website of the Government Legislative Center in March 2015. This is still not realized today, the sentence is still not executed today. So in order to talk about comprehensive and full support for independent individuals, one must bear in mind the existing forms of support, as well as the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014, because he says that if someone resigns from employment and takes care of an adult disabled person, he has the right to provide care. Plus, our solution is in this draft law that says that if someone wants to work, but at the same time has a person who should and wants to take care of, we say to him: work, your work is needed. You need it because of your future retirement, you need it, because taxes on your work are affecting the state budget, and we're gonna help you as a country to take care of your loved ones. Hence, we give a guardian's cheque so that a person close to this independent person decides who he entrusts to care for this independent person, and we pay for it, using a custody check and also from supervision, because we are talking about a new professional group, about assistants of independent persons who - properly trained, certified - are to carry out this care so that someone working is comforted that he or she is not harmed, that he or she is well cared for. So a new form - a care check, an assistant to an independent person, but also a rest period, when we take care of a loved one and we just need to rest. Then the state budget will be obliged whether the State will be obliged to ensure that during resting leave care of your loved ones. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I just wanted to say this: our project is not only a well-diagnosed project, not only based on a reliable and good diagnosis, but also a really well-consulted project. In our club, in the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform was formed a team of messengers. Since the fall. We were in all 16 regions of our country. We met with thousands of seniors, close to independents, we had more than 70 meetings. They're waiting for this project. They're really waiting. I have this appeal and this dream. I propose that we remove senior policy from the current political dispute and together take care of those who can no longer or will not be able to take care of themselves. We politicians will be no exception. I assure you. So it's worth thinking about those who can't help themselves today, because sooner or later it's gonna touch us directly or indirectly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u225	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's bill on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities from Print No 2848 and, at the same time, to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Help for Independent Persons with Print No 2771. I will now present my position on the government project. The solutions proposed in the Act are the implementation of the actions announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for the creation of a special fund consisting, among others. with tribute from the best earners. Law and Justice builds a united and just state. Ones that are to be a community in which the most deprived, the weakest, and those with disabilities need our support most. The proposed bill envisages the creation of a new institution, i.e. Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. The Polish State should fulfil its obligation to persons with disabilities in order to enable them to exercise their rights fully, allow them to live independently and therefore provide adequate means to achieve this objective. The need for the proposed regulation arises from the need to provide additional social, professional and health support for persons with disabilities. The Government of Law and Justice has been active in supporting people with disabilities and their families since the beginning of its operation, among others. Introducing tasks from the programme "For Life in Coordination and Rehabilitation and Care Centres" and supporting families who raise children with disabilities from the programme "Family 500+" by increasing their social pension, raising the amount of care allowance and special care allowance, introducing new rules for the deduction of rehabilitation allowance, increasing the funding for the costs of occupational activities and occupational therapy workshops. The strategic objective of the government is to build a comprehensive system of support for people with disabilities and their families, and one of the elements of this system will be support programmes financed from the Solidarity Fund. The fund's revenue will be generated by compulsory contributions to the fund, representing 0,15% the basis for the contribution to the Labour Fund, as well as the solidarity tribute on the income of natural persons of 4% from the surplus income of more than PLN 1 million, the revenue being reduced by the social contributions paid. The other sources of revenue of the Fund are: grants from the State budget, funds from the European Union budget for co-financing projects financed by the Fund, interest on the funds of the Fund remaining in the separate bank account, interest on free funds, transferred in the management of the Minister responsible for public finances and fines for failing to pay contributions. The proposed law provides for funding from the funds for the implementation of government and ministry programmes of the Council of Ministers and the Minister responsible for social security, aimed at comprehensive support for persons with disabilities. In addition, the appropriations may be used to carry out tasks related to the promotion and support of the support scheme for persons with disabilities and to carry out tasks related to innovative solutions for support for persons with disabilities. The proposed project was widely consulted and was positively assessed by the trade unions and the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. He was consulted in 16 voivodships as part of the road map of building a support system for people with disabilities and their families. The objectives for which the Solidarity Fund will be allocated will be consulted on the representation of people with disabilities and specific tasks will be identified in the Annual Action Plan for People with Disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice is a credible government. It shows that he's doing what he promised, and that's what he's doing in this case. As a result, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the government project and recommends further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. As for the second project, the parliamentary project, I want a brief, two seconds longer, your marshal, to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The purpose of this parliamentary bill is to provide support to independent individuals by granting benefits...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u227	Member, conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u228	Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u229	Member, conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u230	Conclusion. After examination by the parliamentary club of the Parliamentary Draft Law No 2771 I would like to say that there are many legislative inconsistencies in this draft. Doubts arise, among others. construction...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u231	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u232	I move that the bill be rejected at first reading. I'm already filing that motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u233	Thank you. [[And then this morning, you called for a joint... and a shift this afternoon.]] [[The narrative is good, sir. You just have to do the work equally.]] Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As far as these promises are concerned, I would like to warn you, and I would urge you to be cautious. At the beginning of last year, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Rafalska announced 5 000 very loudly. new jobs for people with disabilities in public administration. Tell me where these jobs are. As Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz said, four years ago you demanded a judgment by the Constitutional Court that equals benefits for carers of adults with disabilities and children with disabilities. You've been in charge for three years. Why aren't you doing what you've been demanding? Such lists of promises could be multiplied. We don't know what the idea of this fund is for. We don't know because it's a bizarre hybrid. After all, there are simple mechanisms if we want to increase tax rates and allocate 0,15 contributions to the Labour Fund to support people with disabilities. We need to amend the Individual Income Tax Act and redirect the contribution from the Labour Fund to the Rehabilitation Fund. We don't understand why there's this weird construction about creating a new fund. Perhaps Minister Michalkiewicz could tell us whether this is a kind of vote of distrust towards the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. After all, if you want to simply really increase the money to support people with disabilities, you should increase the funds transferred to the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. What's the new fund for? More, in your explanatory memorandum to your bill, you write this way: As a result of the separation of the new fund, there may be an increase in the number of procedures on the part of enterprises in relation to the collection, calculation and settlement of the new contribution. In addition, there will be an administrative burden related to the collection of solidarity tributes, inter alia. on the obligation to determine the contribution of the Fund to the tasks set out in the Ministry and Government programmes or the financing rules. At the same time, voivodeships and entities who have received these funds from the Fund will be required to verify the financial and factual accounts. In fact, instead of increasing real funding, I'm sure you're increasing your bureaucratic monster. One more fund, settlement, conversion, etc. Of course, we believe that the resources needed to support people with disabilities need to be increased, but this needs to be done in a simple and transparent way. The funding of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities needs to be increased, not to create a new fund, a new institution, new bureaucracy, new settlements, new verification procedures. That is why we are requesting that this project be rejected at first reading. I would also like to ask what you really think about supporting people with disabilities. Once again, I will return to the question of whether you are in favour of people with disabilities being independent first of all because they work. And we'll probably hear the answer again to that question: yes. How does it happen that the employment of people with disabilities in public administration is decreasing? According to Rzeczpospolita in the middle of this year, for the first time in 7 years, employment in the civil service was increased. As far as the whole body is concerned, the increase was slight - 0.4% 534 jobs. The record fell in executive and executive positions. That's where the growth was 52%. On the other hand, the number of people with disabilities among those employed in the civil service fell by 233. On 31 December 2017, 4637 people with disabilities worked in the civil service, i.e. 3.9% of the civil service corps. Until now, this employment has increased every year. In 2010, this indicator was 2.6% , and in 2016 - 4%. Between 2010 and 2016, 1560 people with disabilities arrived in the corps. However, last year the number of people employed with a judgment fell by 233. This is a true determinant of such easily-spoken declarations. In particular, these declarations are made before the elections, as is the case with the Constitutional Tribunal, in order to compensate for these benefits. I'll remind you, four years ago, there was a conviction. You've been in charge for three years. Why aren't you carrying out such elementary and obvious responsibilities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I submit a request to the secretariat's staff. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u235	Thank you. Please take the floor of Agnieszka Chcaj, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities from Print No. 2848, including the position on the parliamentary draft act on the assistance of independent persons from Print No. 2771. I will start by justifying the draft Solidarity Tax Act in which the Minister said that he was to provide comprehensive support for people with disabilities. It is simply absurd in the main sentence, because it is impossible to provide comprehensive support when we do not know how many disabled people we have in Poland. And we still don't know that, because for three years, you promise to reform the caselaw system and we will finally find out who's help, what kind of money to address. You're just introducing a simple tax. The genesis of this bill, this tax, as you recall, goes back to the strike that took place in the Seym. During this strike, the demands of people with disabilities were clear and clear: to increase the amount of money for living to a minimum of PLN 1400. Then the Prime Minister, wanting to get out of a difficult situation, said that he would introduce a new tax that would solve the problems of people with disabilities. In all this justification, there is absolutely no correlation between these demands and this obligation. All we have is a tax that's going to be another creation, and it's going to create another special-purpose fund. I've got a card right here. We already have 28 of these special-purpose funds. 28, ladies and gentlemen. That's 28 resort funds. President Kaczyński used to talk about resort funds. He said that it was money that is off the budget and at the disposal of certain ministerial dukes, and that it was about places for their people. I'm confirming it. This is another creation that really will not improve the situation of people with disabilities. We already have that kind of funding. Let's take a look at how this money is spent. The State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, the Labour Fund, because we're talking about this money, it's... Let me give you an example of how spending money works based on a bad system of judgment. We have people who are in the system due to a significant and moderate degree of disability e.g. Because they were once in uniform service, they left the service, got themselves a disability ruling. They live well, they have various benefits, including care benefits, and yet the state rehabilitation fund finances them with jobs in security companies. So whatever money you put into this system, all that money will run away and not go to those people who really need it. I'm not criticizing this government, just so we're clear. I have been criticizing a fatal policy towards people with disabilities that has actually been practiced for years. I'm criticizing the government for failing, because you've had the perfect tools for three years, you've got executive power, you've got the legislative power, you've got all the instruments and you're not doing the reform. You're creating another fund that's actually gonna only cause people who make a pretty good living just to get their businesses out. People want to share money, but they don't want to see their money wasted, and unfortunately at the moment they're wasted. An example of a comprehensive approach to people with disabilities. Take a look at the sheltered work facilities. We have three institutions, three staffs of officials who control, distribute money from PFRON from the position of the voivodship: PFRON, Marshal's office and the voivodship office. I ran an institution like this. Really, believe me, when you add another fund, with more officials, more control functions, it's every institution that takes care of people with disabilities, it's just gonna run away from that money. You want to have a fund that you'll be sharing again between NGOs, because you're putting in such a way as recognition of the minister responsible. This money is going to some non-competition foundation, some friendly institution, which, for example, I'm gonna run some more consultations. You do not use huge money, billions from the European Union, which have been introduced to test innovative working methods with people with disabilities. There is no correlation between case law and schemes for the entry of persons with disabilities into the labour market, for example. already in individual institutions, in protected workplaces, workshops of occupational therapy, ZAZs you have a diagnosis of people with disabilities, while because they start work, they are deprived of the degree of disability. One big hole. I want to end with this project. Perhaps a discussion about changing this system would be good if we talked together. The Civic Platform project, surprisingly, has not been under parliamentary discussion for 8 years and could have been subject to, because it contains a good intention regarding individualized assistance and the possibility of choosing money for services. It has not been introduced. If we could at least see the connection, which means the money is [[♪ The bell ♪]] drawn from people to one and addressed to some group of help, but there is no connection, so this discussion is simply pointless. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u237	Thank you. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored on behalf of the Poselski Club to present my views on two prints, projects on solutions dedicated to the environment of people with disabilities. First of all, I would just like to point out that I do not understand why, over two proposals of laws concerning completely different issues, made by two separate clubs, it takes place together, at one time. It could have been separated, as in the case of print No 2471, which this morning was given a separate time. The first printing is a government draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, a project well known not only to people interested in the environment of people with disabilities. The idea for him and his assumptions were created at an express pace at the request of the Prime Minister as a tender card to resolve the crisis, culminating in a 40-day occupation strike for people with disabilities and their carers in the Sejm in April and May this year. The project concerns the introduction into the legal order of a state special purpose fund aimed at comprehensive support for people with disabilities. Sounds good, but the title of the bill contradicts her assumptions. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no solidarity here. It's taking the unemployed and the new Yanos. Unless we use one concept to determine different conflicting situations. There is no solidarity, but it is stealing money from a fund with a different destiny and imposing new taxes on Poles. There is no solidarity, there is not even a purpose that was at the heart of it. Money will not go to disabled people, but it will fund accounts of friendly foundations and government programs such as the Lifetime Programme, and you promised protesters an increase in benefits, money for rehabilitation, rehabilitation allowance. Modern, like the whole environment, is against such solutions. Yes, we are aware that without money we will not solve any problem. But there is no agreement on Janoskovy imposed at the discretion of the Prime Minister and the people of his office on a group of citizens without public consultation, without talking, without discussing alternative solutions. This is where Mr Piechota mentioned this. There is PFRON, the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Let's increase the funds for this fund. Let's start implementing the programs. Let's start helping people with disabilities. Let us begin to implement what the Minister for Labour and Social Policy said - a uniform, coherent system dedicated to people with disabilities. Why aren't we doing this? In one interview, the Minister admitted that she had assumed for this term that she would implement it, reform the whole system, and then admitted that unfortunately it turned out that she would not be able to do so. This way, you're just patching up this system, not reforming it. Someone at the summit of our government decided to impose a new tax, because so it is stated in the law, tax in the form of solidarity tribute, on a group of the richest Poles. We are talking about 4% of the surplus over 1 million of the total revenue per year. Solidarity, Prime Minister, is when everyone agrees about wanting to participate in a project. Solidarity cannot be imposed. Poles are a generous nation, sensitive to the needs of the needy, and are willing to support various actions, which is best example of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help or Caritas. Poles are solidarity when they are able to choose and make decisions. If we start forcing them to be self - sacrificing, it could turn against your intentions. Now it's time for the government. Show your intentions and outstandingness of the experts employed. Show us, please, that you are able to balance this natural goodness of the citizens. Show that you are able to care for the needs of Poles based on what you receive from them in the form of taxes already levied. Maybe it's worth reducing salaries, briefings, prizes and handing out It's for the needy. You use lofty concepts, so please show what solidarity is in its essence understood by the PiS. Equally questionable is the compulsory contribution to the fund, i.e. redirecting a certain amount from the Labour Fund to the Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. Let me just remind you what the objective of the Labour Fund is: active forms of combating unemployment, promotion of employment, traineeships, training. The reduction of this budget may have a very negative impact on society as a whole in the future. There are many doubts about the project. As usual, we're running out of time. There was also no time to discuss the Civic Platform project. I just wanted to point out that Modern is behind the referral. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Citizens' Platform project for further work and, of course, we reject the Rights and Justice project on the Solidarity Fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u239	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u240	Respected Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, print No 2848, and to the parliamentary draft act on the assistance of independent persons, print No 2771. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill envisages the creation of a Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, a new institution that will support people with disabilities. Beautiful-sounding password. The question is what is behind this. The proposed solution is supposed to be the implementation of the announcement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki concerning the creation of a special fund, consisting of, among others: from a solidarity tribute from the best earners. The goal is noble, but as usual, the devil is in the details. Official government communications often reiterate the argument that social cohesion must be maintained, which is to be the reason why the fund will be financed by taxpayers who earn more than PLN 1 million during the tax year. This would all make sense if it were not for the fact that the draft law provided for a mandatory rate of 0,15% the basis for the contribution to the Labour Fund. This contribution will apply to all employers and today the employee's employment cost is 40% Total remuneration. So it's called. The solidarity fund will cover all citizens, not just the wealthiest. Once again, then, behind Matthew's predictions, a liar hides a second bottom. The word 'no' is used here not by chance. This bill is another example of how PiS is lying. He wants to look for money supposedly in the pocket of the richest, and it reaches into everyone's pockets. I think that if we introduced a lie tax on Prime Minister Morawiecki, despite millions of dollars in his account, he would go with his bags. In addition, the Act states that other financial sources may be subsidies from the state budget. And what's the budget? From our taxes. I would rather not count on EU funds, because if this goes on, the PiS will get us out of the European Union, and certainly the actions that govern us in the first place can deprive us of a large part of the EU funds. I wouldn't count on the interest on the accumulated capital mentioned in the Act either. They'll probably be eaten first by the so-called PiS. Teddy bears hired here and there. Summa summarum, ladies and gentlemen, these announced 2 billion zlotys will either be fiction or all Poles will throw themselves at them, not just the richest ones. Whatever it is, but your interests, as you can see, Prime Minister Morawiecki can take care of. Ladies and gentlemen! Although the idea is right, as always in PiS, worse with implementation. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support the bill on helping independent people, voted in favour of it, and as far as the bill on the Solidarity Fund is concerned, it will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Circle of Liberal and Social Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You spoke of kindness so that we would kindly approach this solidarity tribute project. I am very sorry, but it is not possible to be kind about a project that was actually created just so that the people who protested in the Seym in spring this year, just then came out of this Seym. Referring specifically to the project, let me remind you that if this were really the answer to these demands that protesters were talking about, you would have fulfilled one of the most important of their demands, postulate No.1 concerning 500 PLN for each person with disabilities from birth. You haven't done it until today. The bill that was supposed to work since July doesn't work either. There's no access to specialist doctors. None of the disabled people spared 500 zlotys, just as you said they would. This fund, which the government proposes, is nothing more than a fund-jumping of the best earners in Poland to really patch up the budget hole, which is going to show up to us any moment now, because we have a government that is very wasteful. I have neither interest nor need to defend people earning more than PLN 1 million a year, because they know best how to defend their rights, but I will remind you that they already pay the most taxes to the Treasury, and many of them also actively support charity initiatives and people with disabilities. It is therefore a lie and manipulation to call this project a solidarity tribute, because solidarity implies that all social groups work together to achieve a goal. What you are proposing, I would rather call the Yano funds, and that's what I'm going to call it, because that name shows what you're really talking about. I'll say it again: it's a cashier's heist, but it's not necessarily to pass it on to the most needy. There is a very vague presentation of the way in which the products are distributed, but a few things are worrying me very much, and I would like to draw attention to them now. The first thing - part of the fund is to be allocated to entities by means of an open competition in which the compositions of the competition committees, together with the presidents, appoint ministries in which they sit - who? - PiS politicians, or the National Health Fund staffed by whom? - by PiS politicians. What's more, they're voivodeships - who? - the PiS will present to the relevant ministries a list of applications recommended for support under this Janosik fund. So you're just gonna give it to your own people. And finally, a fragment of the article. 11, which is actually the essence of this money-jump, I quote: The Minister responsible for social security, if this is necessary because of an important social interest or an important public interest, may order the execution of social or professional support tasks for persons with disabilities, except for the selection of applications or open competitions. Unfortunately, I have the overwhelming impression that this law is written so that some of these funds go to the foundation of a rotating Toruń priest, not to the really needy people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of setting up more funds instead of imposing more taxes on citizens, instead of creating muddy and stubborn mechanisms for giving away public money, because this Yanos fund comes down to this, I have one basic question: where is the money you promised to people with disabilities? Where is the 500+ for all people with disabilities and where is yours, ladies and gentlemen, decency? You lie every day. We will vote in favour that there should be no discussion at all about your project. I will no longer be able to tell you about the Civic Platform project, but we will support it to be sent to committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u243	Thank you. The Sejm concluded that in the joint discussion on these points... Excuse me, let's move on to asking questions. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, is the first question to be asked. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u244	High Izbo! One might ask the question: 'Where are they - all these friends of mine?' There weren't many, though there were always few. They hid in various dark institutions. Sometimes the Danube raft is more important, sometimes the election campaign is more important, which is why I do not see the deputy prime minister of the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło, who also did not find even a second to meet protesters with disabilities. But today, what you have done is the most disgusting thing - one debate on these two projects to cover the fact that the Civic Platform club has worked out a model solution to support independent individuals for a very long time. Today you do not want to talk about Polish seniors, who are 9 million, you do not want to talk about independent people, which are 2 million. The application by the PiS for rejection of the project is a great disgrace and [[♪ The bell ♪]] It'll be remembered... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u245	I would like to ask Mr Duda, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The Government of the United Right, this government, since the beginning of its operation has shown particular concern for those who are weaker, and those who are weaker, not because of their fault, are people with disabilities. The government has already devoted a lot of attention to these people and has provided appropriate assistance. Support for families with disabilities in the framework of 500+, raising social pensions, increasing welfare and others can be mentioned, but the needs of these people are still enormous. It is therefore necessary to find financial means to implement the rights of those persons. The aim will be to set up a state special fund - the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which will support people with disabilities. The main source of revenue of the fund will be the contribution from the Labour Fund and solidarity tribute from the richest Poles. I stress: from the richest Poles. And a question for the Minister. Are such tributes used in other European countries, or do we want to be an exception in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u247	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about important issues, about the support of people with disabilities and about helping them. This help is undoubtedly due to the fact that these people are fighting for a comfortable but worthy life. The government project proposes the creation of a Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. And then there's the question. I already know the answer. The creation of another fund, the taking of part of the contributions from the Labour Fund and the introduction of a new tax will not solve the problem so important and this is not a way of meeting the expectations of people protesting here in the Sejm. The recipe for solving this problem cannot be the rule: I will take one and give it to the other, because if this practice goes public, we will soon have no one to take. When public resources are available, they need to be managed well, priorities set. And that's where we start, not with the imposition of new taxes. I have a question for the Minister: When will the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014 be enforced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u249	Thank you. The question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have two projects. The government is another plan to divide us, citizens. Some will give up some of their money so that people with disabilities and independents can benefit from it. Terrible next moment of placing Poles against Poles. Secondly, you first took away the planned amounts for the implementation of the "Senior-WIGOR" programme, and now you are graciously declaring that the money from the Solidarity Fund is going to be allocated to new daily support centres. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you have the courage to eat our project, the other one? Why do you not want to introduce concrete, prepared actions, but once again blur everything by making empty promises? Because, of course, there's another election behind the belt. People with disabilities, independent, need the courage to take real responsibility, as well as systemic actions that accurately describe the project about the support of people with disabilities, rather than continuous action. Those people deserve it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But their loved ones deserve it, too...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u251	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u252	...who, mostly on their shoulders, carry responsibility for a common, worthy everyday life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u253	Don't you ask questions, Member? [[Your marshal doesn't invite me, so I don't know if I should wait.]] I understand you want me to send you a special invitation. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u254	Thank you. Both disabled people and people... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u255	Madame, I have set the time - 1 minute. Please observe that. That's my clearance. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I ask Mrs Fabisiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u256	Disabled or independent persons are weaker and should be targeted at all kinds of assistance. Everyone emphasizes that. Two questions, then. How do you help a mother who gets kicked out of the house with her kids? How do you want to ensure that? I'm asking for a specific answer, who to address, who to help this person. And the second question about the first law, the government law. At the moment, the closest family can receive money for taking care of a disabled person, e.g. My mother, but my uncle can't. What if the mother is seriously ill and can't take care of her? Is this problem resolved in the proposed act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u257	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! In view of the intention to raise additional, new money, the question arises whether the effectiveness of the funds already spent is returned, which are already at the disposal of the government, in particular the funds collected in the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. I would like to ask if the Minister believes that it was appropriate for PFRON to conclude a lease agreement for more than 20 million PLN and whether it is true that some of the departments that have been moved to these new facilities on the street. The railway station is now returning to the fund's headquarters. How much does it cost to move back and forth? And second question. Was there a need to change the fund logo? How much it cost to change the logo of the fund made during the time of President Kwiatkowski, when the new logo PFRON just got a flower? And one last question, but essential. What about the new case law system? He was supposed to be in March, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then - by the end of June, but he's still gone. When will there be a new system of case law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u259	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all pay taxes jointly and severally, which is why calling the solidarity tribute of this additional tax or tax threshold is just some kind of psychic PR venture that you will be proud of during the next elections or those or parliamentary ones, saying, yes, we helped. Only us taxpayers who pay these taxes in solidarity sometimes have the hope that they will be spent rationally. From my question after 3 years of government: What lessons do you draw from your current system or system? When will the reform take place with regard to case law? When the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on equalisation of benefits for carers of persons with disabilities is being implemented, and are you even planning a comprehensive, comprehensive, systemic reform, or is this the only patching of holes: here we will throw, here we will add, here we will hire colleagues? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u261	The question is asked by Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One specific question: Isn't the fund you create gonna double the tasks that PFRON currently has? And if not, wouldn't it be better just to expand this scope of PFRON's responsibilities so as not to create another office where, of course, more jobs will be created, which in turn will be filled with your people? Isn't it better to actually use this money to help people with disabilities? And by the way, why is this debate happening at the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs? Because I think those people would be interested in this debate, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u263	Thank you. The question is asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is your social sensitivity? Because I feel like you're sensitive, but only on your own, because you and your followers are able to get money out of the ground. What you have done today, that you are asking for rejection at first reading of a very good project that could support a very large crowd of independent people, that you do not even want to discuss it, shows that you are ruthless, absolutely ruthless. Because if someone's sensitive, they're talking. The debate, the discussion, the hearing of all the arguments is based on sensitivity and, in particular, on social sensitivity. You're ruthless, and you're just trying to do your own politics, and you're not even talking about independent people, people who need help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u265	The question is now asked by Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many entrepreneurs believe that the change is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which refers to equality of law vis-à-vis all and the same treatment by public authorities. Capital companies and their CEOs are privileged to companies which conduct business because it is so taxed that in the case of the CEOs of capital companies it is only about remuneration, while in the case of entrepreneurs who have an entry in the register - the entire income. This is unfair because in many cases These entrepreneurs have paid, paid large taxes, created new jobs, bought machines to maintain the level of innovation, are forced to involve costs in accordance with tax regulations. This fact makes it necessary to reduce the income tax due for many years after the purchase and payment of the levy in a one-off manner so as to make a full deduction. This means that in annual accounts they indicate a high income, but it is reinvested in the company. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u267	Thank you. The list of Members who are registered to ask questions has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Krzysztof Michałkiewicz and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide that I was surprised to hear the discussion about the Solidarity Fund. I hope that not only me, but also people with disabilities, who often follow committee meetings and meetings of the Sejm online. As you know, 2 billion additional funding for people with disabilities and for supporting people with disabilities is an amount that would be useful in support of people with disabilities and comprehensive rehabilitation. If most opposition clubs think that people with disabilities don't need additional support, I'm a little shocked, or I'm quite surprised... [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Total nonsense.]] Let's see how you explain this to people with disabilities. As regards your speeches and questions, Mr Piechota spoke a lot about why we are creating a separate fund. It is simply because of the law on public finances, which the High House once passed and which law says that the state special purpose fund is created on the basis of a separate law and does not have legal personality. The funds constituting the fund's revenue shall be collected in a separate bank account held by the Minister as indicated in the fund creation law or by another body designated by the law. In this form, the Labour Fund, the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund and many funds operate, one of the Members has already said how many of them there are. The State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is probably the only fund that has legal personality and actually operates under a law that otherwise regulates its functioning. One more argument, if you will allow it. As far as part of the fund's revenue is concerned, which is separated from the Labour Fund, this is a contribution defined as a contribution to the Solidarity Fund. The adoption of a single PFRON fund would mean two contributions from employers, which contradicts the collection of public revenues in separate bank accounts. These arguments could be cited more. On the other hand, as I said, special funds with legal personality have no longer been created for years, and special funds without legal personality have been created. In our ministry, as you know, the legal personality of the Labour Fund has not been removed in our time and a fund without legal personality has been created. The same goes for the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. The second person who asked a lot about the bill was Mrs Chasing. The law explicitly refers to the comprehensiveness of support, i.e. support and social and professional, and health. As to whether this is comprehensive support, I think it is, but if you think it is not, we will be wondering how to ensure this complexity. At the moment, however, two major projects are being carried out in PFRON, which deal with comprehensive rehabilitation. We certainly want the Polish school of comprehensive rehabilitation, which was the precursor of many activities for the benefit of people with disabilities not only in Poland, but also in the world, to exist again. We want to get back to that idea. Disabled people need comprehensive rehabilitation, they need extensive support, not just support for professional and social rehabilitation, which is provided by the state rehabilitation fund. You said we didn't know how many people with disabilities. In our country, there is no obligation to apply for a judgment, Madame. Not all disabled people submit to this procedure. The disabled, i.e. people with a disability ruling, have legally 3100 thousand. We know how many we have. However, according to the CSO, a lot, about 5 million, and some experts are talking about 7 million people who define themselves as people with disabilities. I believe that the fact that we do not know how many people with disabilities are is because people with disabilities have free will. also with regard to obtaining a judgment. And we certainly will not apply coercion so that every person who is disabled will also have a judgment. Later, she spoke a lot about opinions on how badly people with disabilities are spent. You have talked about your experience, so I will not discuss it, because I think you know better than I do whether the activities in its organisation have been carried out economically or not. I've always had a very good view of your activities, which is why I'm surprised you're so misjudged about your activities, but you don't discuss opinions. Mrs Wróblewska spoke a lot about Solidarity. As the man who assumed the Solidarity, who sat for the Solidarity, I do not hide that I am surprised, because then this Solidarity was simpler. Now it is assigned some other content. Of course, we want to support and support charity, charity, NGOs. As far as the non-governmental sector is concerned, it does a lot of wonderful things for the environment of people with disabilities, but we believe that you also have responsibilities towards the weakest citizens, and we want these responsibilities to be fulfilled. Mr Jarubas has used a lot of invectives, so I will not discuss this. On the other hand, he was clearly wrong about a few things, and I don't think he read the bill. The Act does not talk about a new institution in organisational form, it does not talk about a new contribution of 0,15% contributions to the Labour Fund. On the other hand, he says that from this contribution that we are currently paying for the Labour Fund, 0,15% will be paid to the Solidarity Fund. He doesn't say anything about a new contribution, sir. Nor did Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus address the law in substance. Mr Szczerba spoke a lot about shame. I understand that this disgrace is that some Members believe that people with disabilities should not be given additional funding to build a support system for these people. [[You're lying now.]] Mr Duda spoke about solidarity. Exactly as the Member has said. In countries richer than ours, where the situation of people with disabilities seems to be much better, there is also a solidarity tribute. E.g. Germany has a solidarity fee as an additional levy linked to income tax. I will remind you that care insurance is also mandatory in Germany. The solidarity tax has also been introduced by Greece, Italy, Latvia. Danins with a solidarity function are in the Czech Republic, Portugal, Austria, Spain, France. Additional social security contributions are in force in Latvia, Belgium and Switzerland, and at the moment Latvia, Belgium and Switzerland are planning additional social security contributions with solidarity functions. So, in fact, richer countries think that the richest should share their income with those who are the weakest. I don't see anything wrong with that. Let me remind you that we are talking about people who have revenues above PLN 1 million. The Ministry of Finance estimates that there are 21,000 of them. And we're just talking about what's over PLN 1 million in income, what's extra. What exceeds PLN 1 million of income will be burdened with solidarity. Is it a heavy burden for some people in the country? I don't think it is. Mrs Osos said... [[About the tribunal's judgment.]] ...on the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Madam President, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was because the Civic Platform introduced non-constitutional rules. You have a grudge against the Platform, which is to say to your colleagues that this is the kind of legislation that she has introduced. On the other hand, we believe - and everyone knows that, because we have said this many times from this tribune - that in order to determine which guardians should provide care and to what extent this care is necessary, we need to reform the system of judgment. The Member asked me about the system of ruling. Of course, the team had time to prepare a report on their work by the end of June. He's done his job. Right now it's analyzed and consulted. He passed on the results of his work to the Minister. If there is a political decision that we are to implement these solutions in part or in whole, we will implement them. However, at the moment, as I am saying, I personally have not seen a draft or a report, so it is difficult for me to say what is in it. A Member whose name I do not know spoke a lot about the money heist. If competitions are a fund-raiser, it means that the Member does not believe that the Platform will ever rule. I will remind you that there are parliamentary elections next year, Mr President, and today we do not know who will rule in 2020 when the solidarity tribute will be paid to the solidarity fund, what the government will look like, what ministers will rule, but if you think you have no chance of governing, I am very pleased. That's the way I'm gonna put it. Ms Kołacz-Leszczyńska spoke a lot about the lack of solutions for people with disabilities. I believe that there are a lot of these solutions, but I also believe that the needs of people with disabilities are changing, that the standard of life of Poles is increasing and that the expectations of people with disabilities are much, much greater. Since I've been dealing with the disabled since the early '90s, I remember what their situation looked like 28 years ago. Of course, it changed diametrically. But are the conditions sufficient? No. The needs of friends and colleagues with disabilities in other European countries are certainly being met to a greater extent. Mrs Fabisiak spoke of very specific cases. Of course, we have thought about these cases, but we do not deal with such stories, individual interventions in the ministry. However, this is what the service is doing, which is more forward-looking and that is what they do on a daily basis. Of course, in the Life Programme and in the Life Act, we raised the question of financing single mother's homes by 50%, and this is a matter for the local government, Mrs. If the local government does not want to create a single mother's home or to enter into a contract with a non-governmental organisation to run a single mother's home, it is difficult to enter into the community's own tasks from the ministry level. It is a daily support centre, it is a community's own task. With regard to the care provider who cannot provide care because of the illness, we have, of course, introduced into the law that implemented the program "For Life," the initial elements of care rest, and we are also working on further solutions. E.g. Solidarity fund - your colleagues believe that it is unnecessary - is intended to finance the development of respite care for carers with disabilities. The issues of restful care, as well as personal assistants, personal assistant, which has been expected for many people with disabilities for years, are now within the social responsibility package. In fact, you need to be in touch with them. Some speakers acted as if they did not necessarily understand the needs of people with disabilities and their expectations. As far as Mr Piechota's questions are concerned, they have already been submitted in the form of interpellation, we have answered them. I do not have an answer, but as far as the rental contract is concerned, how much it cost - of course, the Member is talking about an agreement that is long-term, so that is why these amounts are so large - the fund's log, whether it cost or not, we will prepare a written reply. I don't think there's been any research yet, but I'm sure that information... We will either direct you to the interpellation and answers that have already been given, or we will try to answer again. Mrs Rosa has talked a lot about how we employ colleagues. I could say here, too, that Modern doesn't believe she's gonna rule. That's a question I won't answer. On the other hand, as I have already said, as regards case law, systemic reforms, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is the solidarity fund that is to be used to build a system of support for people with disabilities. Mr Szramka spoke about the new office. No. The Solidarity Fund is not a new office. He is a special fund, a bank account, which will be managed by the Minister for Social Security, Mr. [[Aren't there gonna be any new hires?]] As far as the honourable Member is concerned...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u269	Finish up, Minister. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: I'm just finishing up, two more questions. As far as Mrs. Janyska is concerned, that was it. Not a question, just a digression on the rejection of the Civic Platform project. The government's representative's opinion regarding this project is for inspection, so we certainly took it seriously, read it thoroughly and analyzed it. As far as unfair treatment of entrepreneurs is concerned, I do not feel able to discuss it, but I believe that solidarity is not an additional burden for these people. Minister, finish up. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: If someone is dissatisfied with the answer, we will, of course, also prepare written answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. As part of the corrigendum - Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u270	High Seym! I find it hard to believe that the Minister did not understand me, because everyone, I have the impression, was here in favour of increasing the resources for support for people with disabilities, but we believe that the proposed method of collecting these resources is at least questionable if it is not deeply defective. However, a fund is being created that requires additional employment. The explanatory memorandum clearly sets out how many jobs will arrive. I was quoting a passage from the impact assessment, which made it clear how much additional activity the employer, the Social Security Office, the tax-payers, the tax-payers, the tax authorities controlling all of this. Thus, this mechanism creates a new bureaucratic growth, and yet there are much simpler ways to collect the same resources and use them to support people with disabilities. That is what we are calling for when we ask for the rejection of this project and another way of redirecting this money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the support system for persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u271	Thank you. As part of the corrigendum by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You completely misunderstood me. I used a specific example to determine the problem. The problem is the weaker person. There are few fewer of them than people with disabilities and this number is growing. These aren't just single mothers thrown out of their homes. These are people coming out of prison, these are people being harassed by bailiffs. The government, having no legal basis in the law, cannot help them, very often cannot help them. And no one's helping them. Who's going to help them if not the resort? Both laws are being considered today, so I fully believe that the resort should answer the question of what is its idea and what is its solution in helping these people, weaker people, people who can't handle themselves in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u273	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on two draft laws: Government Print No. 2848 and Parliamentary Print No. 2771. Each of these projects contains proposals for new regulations, the beneficiaries of which will be people with disabilities. The government project provides for the creation of a Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which will finance programmes to facilitate the life of persons with disabilities. The fund's budget is to be composed, inter alia. from the so-called: solidarity tribute paid by people earning more than PLN 1 million per year and contributions from workers who will be deducted from current contributions to the Labour Fund. There is no doubt that people with disabilities need more support than they are currently receiving. Over the years, this social group has been marginalized, and new solutions that could help to improve this situation on a regular basis have only been created on paper. Although the intentions of the current government are right and solutions introduced so far, such as: The increase in social pensions, the Accessibility+ programme or the statutory guarantee of improving access to medical services constitute real help for these people, it must be acknowledged once again that the arrears are long-term and cannot be rectified in such a short period of time for many reasons. However, I agree that hands should not be spread out while waiting. Action is needed to speed up the integration of people with disabilities into society and enable them to live on their own. Therefore, I consider it right that the regulations proposed by the government, according to which the costs associated with the better functioning of people with disabilities, both social and professional, will be borne by all workers. The Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of further proceding on this project, as opposed to the parliamentary project at the same time on helping independent people, because this one is negative. It is expected in it, among others. introducing care cheques and employee rights for those dealing with their independent loved ones. I agree that the long-term care system in Poland needs to be improved so that solutions are comprehensive and that it needs to be adapted to the projected changes in the demographic structure of our country. However, what the applicants are proposing to us will, in my opinion, create even greater chaos in the already dispersed system of granting different benefits. Moreover, it is not entirely clear where the money would be collected for the implementation of the tasks provided for in this Act. I believe that such large shortcomings and shortcomings do not qualify this project for further work on it, which is why, as I said earlier, near Free and Solidarnia will vote against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u275	In the discussion, a request was made for rejection at first reading of the draft laws contained in prints 2848 and 2771. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Code of Civil Procedure and the amendment of other laws (print No 2471). I ask Mrs Agnieszka to pursue the statement of reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present once again the bill submitted by the Kukiz club15, the law on Poland's implementation of the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed and ratified by Poland in 2012. This project came here again, it was submitted through us. Its reception has been advocated for 10 years by the environment of people with disabilities. It is a project actually submitted by NGOs. At the previous moment, when you rejected this project, it was recommended by 250 NGOs. I will not focus on legal shortcomings, because this project certainly has legal disadvantages. You've pointed out these legal flaws. I'm gonna talk to them a little bit in a minute. I will start with my intentions, and I will relate a little to what Minister Michalkiewicz said about my experience, but I will also refer to your experience, because we really know each other, I know the Minister from many years of work for disabled people, I appreciate very much and I have always appreciated his work and his opinion. I wanted to say that because of this, Minister, I have not been in any legislative body, but in the legislation that I have experienced, working with people with disabilities, I have referred to my experience and to the problems that these people have in implementing the stupid laws that you are proposing. I was talking about these experiences, not irregularities, I was just talking about elements like that. the fact that because of bad case law so far in Poland, because this is a reference to this law, people are written on decisions about disability: no work, i.e. they are not allowed to work. It's hurtful and pathological. You know that, and you've known that for many years. You also know about the intention of this project at least - I will say that at least, and I certainly know that longer - for 2 years, because two years ago there was exactly the same discussion here. This project was complex by us and you knew that there was a need, and you knew, when you were also in the opposition earlier, that this issue should be addressed. It's not a political issue, it's not a media issue. In Poland, a lot of people are incapacitated, dear countries. In the '80s, it was about 20,000, right now it's 60,000. The fact that the institution of incapacity is abused draws the attention of the European Commission, draws the attention of the UN, draws the attention of the Ombudsman, draws the attention of parents and people with disabilities themselves. Because they are not always efficient when it comes to making decisions about their health, all civil rights are taken away from them. It's very hurtful, and it's really still scored. That is why your experience in this regard has not been exploited. Two years ago, you rejected this project because of numerous comments on the really complex legal matter of the project. Right, the issue of incapacity, decision-making is a very complicated legal matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Another tax we talked about, another civil servant. You have government legislative offices at your disposal, a lot of lawyers employed in offices, in PFRON, in other institutions, in the Ombudsman, you have the Office of Sejm Analysis, you have a lot of money for this, you spend money also from innovative EU projects and you have not been able for 2 years for those people for whom we are submitting this defective project, create or prepare a project that is legally correct and will contain only this intention. You didn't do it, ladies and gentlemen, although it didn't take any money. The question is: Why? Of course you can criticize our Kukiz club15 for putting this project back together with legislative, legal flaws, and you'll probably be right in a large part. I'm sure you're assuming that this project is rejected once again at first reading, which means you still don't want to work, you don't want to help people, people with disabilities who are simply disabled by their resources, money that they give you to help them. You expect them to prepare you a super-legislative, and for so many years, with this experience, for 10 years of reminding you of this problem, you haven't been able to prepare a legal document and for the last two years in which you promised to take care of it, you haven't taken care of it. Hence the submission of this project a second time. He was made again, because it was also another postulate that reported the environment of disabled protesters in the Sejm. They made it clear: they do not want to be incapacitated in any case. They said that people with intellectual disabilities should stop calling in the Polish legal nomenclature mentally impaired or define other insulting terms. It's not a big group of people. You're in the habit of doing something under the pressure of big social groups. It is indeed a group that is not noisy, which few people pay attention to. That is why we are once again paying attention to it and submitting this project. The project is not intended to replace the institution of incapacity, although this is called for in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. He's supposed to be parallel to this, he's supposed to give an alternative, give the possibility that in the event of a person reporting... I was approached by the mother of a disabled girl, already a woman who turned 18 and is intellectually disabled. She's been taking care of her all her life. He reports to my office, comes and says, "Mrs. President, what am I supposed to do?" I don't want to incarcerate my daughter. This is unworthy. This is the person I respect with all her illness, with everything that's bothering her. I want her to go to the election, I want her to inherit the estate, marry, start a family. I also want to be able to make those decisions for her because she's afraid of a doctor. If I'm gonna disenfranchise her... For 18 years, the state has not been interested in my daughter, and now it will be interested. I'm gonna incarcerate her, I'm gonna want to go to a doctor, and every now and then you're gonna come in with social services, ask me things, and suddenly, you're gonna be interested in a kid who hasn't been interested in her for 18 years. That's what this project is all about. It is not about, ladies and gentlemen, that we discuss these legal nuances here. I will quote the opinion of the Supreme Court, which, of course, criticises the draft for bad legislation, for the wrong legal wording contained in it, but writes a very important thing: A new approach to intellectual disability is included in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but adapting the Polish law to conventional requirements is a very difficult task. It is necessary to review a number of laws and fundamental reconstructions of legislation on legal capacity, by the state. That's the quintessence. The Chief Medical Chamber also points out the need to improve legislation on how to actually be able to intervene quickly and efficiently without waiting for a court ruling. The aim is to perform these procedures in accordance with the decision, under the influence of a person close to an intellectually disabled person. She points to this need, also pointing to complex legal matter. Ladies and gentlemen! Neither I, nor people with disabilities, nor the whole environment that surrounds people with disabilities, are guilty of bad law, we are not guilty of complex legal matters in Poland. This country, it is us - it can be said that I, too, at the moment, because I am the one who creates the law, is responsible for it - we owe it to them. We're responsible for this. This legal matter you're criticizing is complicated. But we have resources. We have the resources. It should be political will, because it can't be the subject of a political fight. I know you're about to leave and criticize legal incapacity. I'm not a lawyer. Those who wrote this law are lawyers who help people with disabilities to overcome legal difficulties on a daily basis. Lawyers from non-governmental organizations wrote this, so they have the right to be wrong about various legal issues. This draft was submitted in this version so that you could finally allow us to discuss this, so that you can direct it to the codification committee, so that you can direct it to the government legislation office, so that you can run legal procedures to help these people. That's the signal. This discussion is about that. Of course, I'm discussing with an empty courtroom, almost empty, but I'm glad you're here, indeed... That you're Minister, I'm very happy for you. I'm asking the Minister. Please help me carry out this legislation. Activate the lawyers. Please really take care of this problem. Even if you refuse this project right now, I've already accepted it. I think these people have also accepted the fact that this policy is really a priority for you. But I appeal to your conscience that you have this full power. Finish at least one element of this convention of the rights of persons with disabilities as necessary. Bring about the situation that we will actually stop ruling on incapacity only in the case of medical matters. The previous project contained legal issues. He was criticized for that, so we cut that version a little bit. It's about the caretaker. I'd like to address some of the government's comments, because you said there, you pointed out... I understand that the government, or whoever prepared this opinion, did not understand this intention or did not want to understand it, or wanted it to be removed, because in its justifications it actually appealed to the fact that it would replace the institution of incapacity. Of course, I already explained that there wouldn't be such a replacement. The name of the health care provider was strongly emphasized and highlighted. Yes, indeed, the health care provider is in the nomenclature, functioning as a medical profession, but it is not true that such elements do not appear. Very often in Polish legislation we meet with different definitions of the same name. That's for example. definition of economic activity in the VAT Act, in the Individual Income Tax Act, in the Social Security Act or the repealed law on freedom of economic activity. The issue of nomenclature should actually be secondary rather than primary. We can discuss whether it could be a medical agent, you can take a different name. It's really not a problem. There's nothing hard for a person who wants to be here. You say that the definition, the name of the intellectual disability in the Polish system, which today applies, concerning the nomenclature on disability issues does not apply. But the definition of intellectual disability is defined by the World Health Organization. Intellectual disability means a significantly less ability to understand new or complex information and learn and apply new skills, impaired intelligence. It reduces the ability to deal with social dysfunction on its own. It starts before you grow up. It has a lasting impact on development. Disability depends not only on the health of the child but also on its disability, but also on the extent to which environmental factors support the full participation and integration of the child in society. Use of the term "intellectual disability" in the context of the WHO initiative, so-called "intellectual disability." Better health, better life, also includes children with autism, with mental impairment. It also includes children who have been placed in institutions due to perceived disability. The Polish legislator should go with the spirit of time, not hide the argument in the form of a lack of dynamism in the field of literature of the subject, because this is the justification issued e.g. by the National Judicial Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the Ministry, to Members from the parliamentary majority who will probably reject this project at first reading so that it does not take another two years until you submit your project, which will actually be legislatively correct, or you will refer it to the codification committee, because 10 years ago this work started and was abandoned because it is difficult matter, you always say so. But is it true that a government that has a majority, which has been a majority for a long time, without a coalitionist, so no one bothers him, has a president, has everything that I've mentioned, can't write a bill that doesn't hurt people with intellectual disabilities? Please answer that. Members of the opposition, Members who do not take party subsidies for their work, so they do not have such a large apparatus of lawyers that they could hire or money for a good legislative office, and NGOs appeal to you: Really take care of this problem and try to resolve this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u277	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code Act, the Family and Care Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the amendment of other laws contained in print No 2471. As your representative of the Members of the applicants said, the project aims to introduce a new institution, the institution of the healthcare provider, into the Civil Code. At the same time, she also referred to the weaknesses of the project, which are raised in the government position. It is difficult not to refer to these arguments of the government party, because the project itself is obviously part of a long-standing discussion about support for people who are intellectually disabled, who are simply mentally ill, in a discussion about the extent of incapacity, partial incapacity. It is difficult to deny applicants good will, but, as far as the proposal is concerned, on the one hand, is it so difficult to change - and does this require great expertise - the proposed title of the law itself? After all, in your submission you want to change the Family and Care Code, several laws already specifically relating to health issues, while you do not change the Civil Code or the Civil Procedure Code. So, even in such a way, this project could already be submitted again in a correct manner. As regards the statutory definition of an intellectually disabled person, you introduce a new concept unknown in the Polish legal order into the Family and Care Code. The concept which you have quoted as regards the World Health Organisation cannot, of course, be a reference point for Polish civil law here. This wording, this definition should be much more precise and without doubt under civil law. You also go so lightly to the identity already in the legal system, in the list of professions, the healthcare provider with a completely different range of tasks, duties, and here we have a reproduction of the same name for a completely different institution of the healthcare provider for an intellectual disability. So here, in fact, these remarks from the government are justified. Of course, a number of other inconsistencies and shortcomings of this project are also raised in the government's position. It is also difficult to disagree with the government's position that the existing legal arrangements for the medical care of persons with intellectual disabilities, however, are working and that this current legal situation is not as bad as you would like to see. Thus, by referring to the position of the government and the final conclusion, when the government says that the proposed solutions are fragmented and in this form would introduce far-reaching inconsistencies in the legal system, with the difficult to predict effects of the solutions introduced, and that such changes require links with the institutions of incapacity and should be comprehensive, it is therefore difficult to disagree with that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this situation, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u279	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Piechota, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. [[Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u280	High Seym! However, I think that these divergent statements conclude that we are all aware of the need to change in this area, the need to change the institution of decision-making for the person who is unable to make this decision and the decision is needed for its benefit. And, of course, there are many detailed solutions, correctness or flaws of various detailed provisions, but I would like to remind you: Poland, ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, has de facto declared the reconstruction of this mechanism in a declaration of interpretation, recognising that Polish incapacity is increasingly an anachronistic, because on the one hand, it does not protect the interests of the person concerned enough, and on the other hand, more and more people close to those persons who need this decision, assisted or decision taken on their behalf instead of them, is aware that, when speaking the most observant, incompetentness is a little such solution with the help of an axe instead of the most delicate and sophisticated lancet needed in these situations. This is a very clear need for a change in the recommendations announced by the Ombudsman to the Committee a few weeks ago. The rights of persons with disabilities in the United Nations, in the area of incapacity. The Ombudsman points out that correct implementation in Poland - he points out as a monitoring body - art. 12 The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires a very deep analysis in order to introduce the necessary and properly formulated amendment. The Ombudsman points out that no attempt has yet been made to introduce a system-based decision-making mechanism. Forms of will statements in the Civil Code do not take into account the needs of people with disabilities. The rules do not speak, states the Ombudsman how he can enter into a legal act in writing by a person unable to read. Due to the lack of formats easy to read and understand and commonly used persons e.g. with intellectual disabilities, they have limited access to the exercise of their legal capacity and rights. This also means that applications for incapacity are brought before the courts in their cases. In the Family and Care Code, there is an institution called a curator for a person with a disability who could support a person in decision-making, but according to the case law of the Polish courts this cannot include support for persons with intellectual or mental disabilities and their replacement, i.e. representation. That is why the Ombudsman, in his recommendations for this change, states the need to repeal the provisions of the Article. 13 and 16 Civil Code on the incapacity and introduction of new regulations based on the model of supported decision-making. It also recommends stepping up the supervision of care activities and giving direction to persons who have been incapacitated completely and partially until the proposed changes are made, namely the abolition of institutions of incapacity, and finally recommends training for lawyers, especially prosecutors, in the area of the freedoms and rights of persons with disabilities, in particular the right to exercise their full legal capacity. Therefore, this initiative should be used as an opportunity to start this discussion in the assessment of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. In the course of this discussion, let us argue about the most appropriate solutions, and it is clear that there is a need to fully involve the Minister of Justice in particular, because without the Minister of Justice it is impossible to implement these solutions. However, let us not reject this proposal because it means putting the change back on track. We don't know for how long. If we all agree, and this is my belief that this change must be made, then let us do so without further delay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u281	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Continuing this thread, I thank Mr Piechota for his support in this very discussion, which has delayed us for two years and nothing has come of this. So there is really a need to start discussing how to solve this. I want to refer again to my own experiences, because it's kind of something I can talk about with certainty. While running a workplace for people with disabilities, and I deal with people with intellectual disabilities that I wanted to hire, after great legal perturbations, hits I often fought with doctors of occupational medicine who were not supposed to pay attention to the hurtful records - no work. As it has already been done, it turned out that those people with intellectual disabilities who can work, but for example. They can't write, they can't agree to voluntary treatment, although they can do dumplings because that's what they did. And they wanted to take a job. Turns out they're hitting it, but they're incapacitated, so it's hard to make a contract with them. After court-martial consents and court-martials, when a parent and a legal guardian somehow managed to establish a relationship, he agreed, it turned out that the payment had to be paid to that guardian. And it turned out that the guardian was irresponsible and e.g. took loans for this disabled person. There really are a lot of problems. If an intellectually disabled person can work but does not wish to consent to treatment, unfortunately, in the current legal state, it simply needs to be incapacitated. That's why there's a request for this discussion. In the explanatory memorandum, the government speaks and pleads that the court will have to supervise. No, because the court does not have to supervise the performance of the duties of a healthcare professional because it is not involuntary. In the event of an incapacitation, the court will take care of the State. The function for which the medical care provider was to be appointed is simply to consent to repair, to cure the tooth, to treat the twisted leg, to such treatments. It's the person who lives with that person all the time, who will be able to give her permission quickly. I know that there is a legal solution, but please also read the opinion of the Medical Chamber, which indicates that it is insufficient. I've been seeing doctors, and they say it's a problem: summoning them to court. The government side also says that there will be cases where there will be stigmatisation of people with intellectual disabilities. In my opinion, stigmatisation is precisely involuntaryness, not giving the function of a medical care provider, so here is a confusion of concepts at all. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, there is a request to really continue this discussion in order to continue it in the committee, to actually create a project in the Ministry of Justice that will be the answer, or to improve this project or to propose another one that will have a wider scope, but indeed not to accuse it for the next two years, because the term of office has not been much. And these are really years of waiting for these legal solutions. And the explanation in the case of this honourable House, the ministry, that this is a complicated legal matter, and for so many years we have been unable to answer it, is simply a failure. It's a failure because we're just incompetent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u283	Thank you very much. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another proposal today from the series of laws on the issue of people with disabilities is the amendment of the laws: Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code, and other laws, prepared by Kukiz.15. In September 2016, Ms Agnieszka Chagaj presented a very similar project from this speaker. At that time, because of many faults, we were forced to vote against. I am very pleased, Madam President, that this project has been improved, submitted again, and thank you very much for that. Today, modern with a clear conscience can support it, because, as we pointed out 2 years ago, it refers to a very important issue so far unsolved in Polish reality despite the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities mentioned here. We still have a problem with the incapacitation of people with disabilities in Poland. I am, of course, referring to the issue of incapacity. By introducing a medical guardian in a random aspect of life, unfortunately, a person with an intellectual disability who does not have the sufficient knowledge necessary to agree to the study or to grant it other health benefits, this will involuntaryly repeal it. I will understand if there are voices saying that this is not enough, but sometimes the method of small steps, especially in such a delicate matter, can be much better and easier to introduce. In addition, I thank you for another attempt to change naming from mental underdevelopment, mental impairment to intellectual disability, which has been calling for an environment of people with disabilities for years. It is about naming which would not stigmatize or defy the dignity of these people and which has been gradually changed in the environment of people with disabilities for years. Of course, as always, there are questions, for example concerning the name mentioned, whether it would be possible to add an article that changes the old name in all laws beyond the introduction of the new term. This would eliminate completely pejorative terms from the Polish legal system. I am not a lawyer, but I have doubts that when introducing a new term it is not necessary to add it to the vocabulary in this law or to amend the law in which such a vocabulary containing an old nickname appears. But this is, as you rightly pointed out, a question to lawyers. I believe that today there is no better institution, ladies and gentlemen, than the government that has money, has tools, has experts, knows the problem. This is a task for you. If this law, according to the Ministry, is wrongly written, it lacks something, perhaps it has some shortcomings, then I agree here to the request of the honourable Member that we finally do so, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a big deal for experts and lawyers, really, and there's a lot of time for that. There has been a lot of time so far and there is still a lot of time. This insubordination in the 21st century is like slavery. We cannot, as Poland, as a civilized country, enter into slavery standards, we cannot, because this is something that should be long removed from the legal order of a modern and legal state. As you state that we are a law-abiding state, this should no longer be in Polish legislation. I cannot agree, Madam, with what you said, that you have already accepted the fact that another opposition proposal on important and legitimate matters will be rejected, that it will not pass. I just don't agree to that. I have repeatedly appealed to the ministers, the government, to the Prime Minister, that we should devote our time and attention to discussing those opposition projects, especially if they concern important social issues. I would like to show you, because in the conversation we use words that maybe abstract for people who don't know the subject, a picture of a girl with Down syndrome that was posted on the Internet. It keeps a note with the inscription: Please don't use the word "undeveloped." I'm a beautiful person. My name is Isabella. Minister, these are the people we're talking about. This girl is 5, 6 years old, but in a few years she's gonna be a grown-up and she's gonna want to make her own decisions. Let's give her a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u285	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's get to the questions. Two Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I regret that I could not participate in some of the debates on people with disabilities who needed to be helped. There was an important meeting of the Public Finance Committee on irregularities or the GetBack scandal. But to the point. Mr Ast said on this project that this is not an excellent project. Since when have there been excellent projects in this House that, when they have 100 articles, make up 150 amendments? Therefore, it should be our duty to talk about the model of helping people with intellectual disabilities in their decision-making. To what extent we will be sensitive depends on how others will live and whether our conscience will be calm. Second of all, I'm surprised you're condemning these projects right away to throwing them in the trash. We should talk about them because we work for these people. Their problems should be dealt with first, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's what they want most.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u287	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u288	And we should be on the committee. Reveal your position. It's for my piss buddies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u289	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. Why didn't the government work on this problem? After all, you've been in charge for three years, and this is a matter that had to be dealt with as a priority. What was the obstacle that it took so long to solve this problem and help these people to live decently? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u291	Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened attentively, along with the judge, to the speeches made by Members who certainly... I do not remember whether it was Mrs Chasing said whether someone else said that we are all in agreement with the idea and that this system is not perfect today and that it should be improved. Without a doubt, we do not think that the institution of incapacity is the height of legal skill for the 21st century. It has its limitations, it was good when it was introduced, it doesn't really seem to agree with reality any more today, but it is also not that the interests of people with intellectual disabilities we are talking about here are not secured under the current system. I think we're all in full agreement about that. The disagreement between the government and the projectors concerns this particular submission that we are discussing in the High House today. There was a question and there was an appeal to see if this short project could be improved eventually. In our view, in the government's view, the problem is that this cannot be improved. It is so badly written legally that it is not possible to correct it. This is not about pointing out all these shortcomings for the second time in this parliamentary term, maybe with some limitation, because the project is part of a slightly broader project, also far from legal precision, which is loyal to the uplifters. I don't want to enter into a discussion in such a convention that it's been two years and nothing's been done. Moreover, it is a bit worse, because in the title of the project we refer to normative acts which are not in the text of the project. Of course, we realise that the government administration has more legislative opportunities than the designer, it is true, and we realise that the project is imperfect also because the matter is complicated. We will not give up on the need to make changes, and from that I started my speech, only that these changes should be made in such a way that we do not say that we have done something and that we are glad that we have done something, but that it is possible to actually modernise the institution in order to help these people. Why, although there was so much time, couldn't we present a government project that would address these issues? Well, because matter is complicated, because we wanted to do legal comparative research, which is serious, as in other countries is currently happening, not 50 years or 60 years ago, to a project on people with intellectual disabilities. We've commissioned the Justice Institute to conduct specific studies. They are by nature carried out just to be prepared conceptually to present to the High House something that sets standards for years. This study is. I think it's even available on the pages of the Justice Institute. I'm pretty sure it's 99% available. And that is what makes it possible to work properly on this complex issue. We have set up an analytical team to lean on this in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I can't at this point, because it would be irresponsible to give you a specific date when we can show you a concrete legislative proposal in the context of a consultation, then a government presentation, but I can definitely declare from this point on that something like this is going to happen, that it's not that we don't see the problem. I will answer these two specific questions, actually only one, because on the other, Mr Romecki's question, why it took so long, I think I have already answered. Why not work on it in the committees? I think I answered that question, too. Unfortunately, the project is so flawed in the legislative process that it really needs to be rewritten, including the title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u293	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka's representative will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will begin by thanking all those who participated in the discussion: Mr Mark Ast, Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska, Ms Krystyna Skowronska. I also thank the Minister for raising a little hope. But I also remember that moment two years ago when it was similar when Mrs Bartus said that she would personally take care of it and make sure of it, but she did not keep her word, hence this regret, probably expressed calmly by me. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska said that I accepted it. I mean, maybe I didn't make up, but I do know the reality of this policy because I've been looking into it for three years. There's probably gonna be another policy someday, but at this point, it's like this. I'm only going to refer to one plea, because I don't think I've talked about it yet, about the fact that the project is random, dealing with one thing and changing things pointlessly. I wouldn't agree with the fact that the point changes aren't really happening, but I think Mrs. Cornelia was talking about it, too. There's no reason to be. just because, as if you were not presenting a concrete, whole, comprehensive solution. But sometimes there's no other option but to take small steps. Your earlier projects, which mentioned people with disabilities... A completely random project, which was written in the explanatory statement that it was comprehensive, was just being discussed about solidarity tribute. This was supposed to be comprehensive support for people with disabilities. The Rehabilitation Act in the preamble contains comprehensive support for people with disabilities, as well as: comprehensive support for people with disabilities, and comprehensive support for people with disabilities on the labour market is also mentioned in the employment offices. So with this complexity it's a little medium and it really doesn't appeal to me to argue that something that's pointy, it's wrong to be, you have to approach comprehensively. We are also talking about cooperatives that something needs to be changed comprehensively, and nothing has changed in cooperatives for years, because something cannot be changed comprehensively. So if, ladies and gentlemen, we can't make a complete or impossible change, then maybe we should do it pointlessly, fragmentedly introduce some good solutions. There's no other explanation. With regard to some elements, you apply pointiness, you say that something cannot be done comprehensively, and in the case of others you criticize it. That's my answer. I do not agree with the point changes, because in Parliament such point changes are carried out by the state... I am just a person who has already spoken today about the need for a comprehensive change in the system of case law and I have been saying for 3 years that all the problems and disadvantages, everything that involves the wrong spending on people with disabilities in Poland, the mismanagement of money, is a matter of the fact that we have a bad system of case law. This system is a tribute to the fact that once a disability ruling was a prescription for unemployment. At the moment, the socio-demographic situation has changed dramatically, unemployment has changed, it is not large, but the consequences of that system have been as if. In a group of people with disabilities we have people who are not disabled at all because they are working, and the state is still funding them salaries from PFRON, so there are people qualified as disabled, who are going through a lot of money from the state budget, and other people are short of that money. So, speaking of complexity, let's put it to the basis that we know how many people with disabilities we have. Minister Michałkiewicz said that there is no obligation to force anyone to rule that he is a disabled person, and that is why some people declare that we have 3 million people, and in case law we have fewer. But he didn't say that sometimes these people are double counting in case law, because there is no single register, which is one person doing two people with disabilities, because there are separate elements there. So if we're talking about complexity, let's start with complexity in this area: to know how many people with disabilities we have, let's make the case-law system more consistent. And when it comes to this complexity, I'm counting on it, Minister, for this solution. And thank you very much for at least taking a friendly look at this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u295	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code and on the amendment of other laws, print No 2471. This amendment is very underdeveloped in my opinion. This project, although submitted for the second time, has not been substantially improved and raises many doubts. According to his records, intellectually disabled persons would have the so-called. a healthcare professional, which would replace the current solution of incapacity and partial incapacity. Unfortunately, the project does not cover many issues, among others. the fact that the concept of healthcare provider already exists in the legal order, as well as the issue of the possibility of stopping care, if the care provider would not act in the interests of his/her subject. I understand the need for this regulation. It is important that, while maintaining the dignity of persons with intellectual disabilities and respecting their will, it is possible in particular cases where time plays an important role, proper treatment or research without the necessary interference of the court today. However, I do not believe that this project is an appropriate solution to this problem, which is why I have a negative assessment of the whole issue. About Free and Solidarni will vote against this project at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u297	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles (prints 1654 and 2825). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report on the amendment of the Act on Driving Vehicles, print No 1654. The report is contained in print No 2825. A committee meeting took place on 11 September 2018, during which the first reading of the print project No 1654 took place. I would like to say that the purpose of the Act is to enable persons with a category B driving licence for at least 3 years to move a tricycle. In particular, disabled persons who, due to disability, are unable to take a driving licence test A. High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission recommends further work. The Commission unanimously, virtually unchanged, accepted the bill submitted by Mr Szramka. For the record, the Member is also a member of the Committee on Infrastructure. The Committee on Infrastructure, which unanimously supported the further process and unanimously adopted this report, recommends further work, and I hope it is positive, for the benefit of people with disabilities who wish to move tricycles and cannot take a motorcycle driving licence test, by agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u299	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u300	Miss Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles, Print No. 1654 and 2825. High Izbo! The proposed amendment gives the possibility to drive a tricycle to a person who has been in possession of a category B driving licence for at least 3 years, paying particular attention to disabled persons who, due to their disability, cannot take a category driving licence test A. The current rules on driving vehicles state that the right to drive vehicles of a type such as a tricycle is exclusive to the holder of a category licence As long as he is 21 years old, the A1 and A2 licence entitles him to drive tricycles with a power not exceeding 15 kW. The proposed amendment to the Act is compatible with European Union law as the proposed amendment proposes the exercise of the powers laid down in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 lit. a Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. This is to grant category B driving licences for driving a tricycle, provided that they have been in possession of a category B driving licence for at least 3 years. High Seym! Driving a single-track motorbike is very difficult for people with disabilities or those who no longer have full mobility. They are, in effect, doomed to tricycles. For them, these vehicles are an extraordinary convenience not only as a means of transport, but also as a means of recreation and entertainment. It restores them to the joy of life, gives them a moment of satisfaction in life's disability. This law works well, for example, in the United States, where three-wheeled motorcyclists are often veterans and disabled warmen with limited manual abilities. In addition, the popularity of such vehicles will increase, which will stimulate the automotive market, as in the case of single tracks up to 125 cm3. They will in particular gain small companies engaged in import or service so-called. Tray. Another issue is the lower emissions of CO2 into the environment by these vehicles, which is very desirable in the struggle of our country with smog. Some car owners will be able to switch to the original three-wheelers. Such a vehicle takes less space in the parking lot and the driving technique is closer to the driving technique than the classic motorbike. The proposal to amend this law is another bow towards people with disabilities, because this year the Sejm of the Republic of Poland has already implemented a law amending the Act on driving vehicles, giving the possibility to obtain a driving licence of categories C and C1 to deaf people, i.e. in some way disabled people. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice sees the need to amend the Act on Drivers, which will facilitate the acquisition of rights to drive three-wheeled vehicles especially to disabled people who have so far been deprived of these opportunities. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law presented and is in favour of referring it to further proceedings. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u301	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honor to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position regarding printing No. 1654. The draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers assumes one amendment. Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 point 8 is extended and is replaced by the following: Category B entitles you to drive a motorcycle of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 125 cm3, a power not exceeding 11 kW and a power/power ratio not exceeding 0,1 kW/kg, a tricycle, provided that you have a category B driving licence for at least 3 years. The main purpose of this project is to allow motorbikes to move to people with a driving licence. B for at least 3 years. This is particularly the case for those who, due to their disability, are unable to take the driving licence test of the cat. A. The Civic Platform Club supports the proposed change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is rarely the case in this House, which is why I am all the more pleased that this is happening on the occasion of the project submitted by the Kukiz club15. In fact, I have submitted this project at the request of many people, who will be able to continue to pursue their passions associated with it. with a motorcycle ride. It seems logical, in fact, that this change must take place, because at the moment we are not able to pass the Kat's driving licence test. A. Just for a peasant's mind, if we want to move a particular vehicle, we should be able to pass a driving test that takes into account this vehicle. At the moment, the driver's license is Kat. A excludes people with disabilities, while those with a Kat driver's license. B can't move travesty. In addition, the traj, or tricycle, is so stable that the driving technique is completely different from the one-tracking technique. I don't think there'll be any danger if we actually let experienced people, because with a three-year internship with a Kat driver's license. B move the tricycles. Thank you so much for the vote so far. I am convinced that Members from other clubs will speak in a similar tone, for which I thank you very much in advance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u305	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles, contained in prints no. 1654 and 2825. Ladies and gentlemen! It's been a long time for us to wait for this decision, but I think the most important thing in the end is the results. It is precisely the effects of this law, i.e. the introduction of a provision allowing motorbikes to move to people with a cat's driving licence. B for at least 3 years, this is the element that is extremely important. It is extremely important because it concerns a large group of people with disabilities who could drive such three-wheeled motorcycles, but unfortunately, in order to get behind the wheel of such a motorbike today, you have to pass the driving test for the cat's driving licence. A. Of course, in many cases this is extremely difficult, and I think that in very many cases it is simply impossible. This amendment responds to the expectations of the environment of people with disabilities. It should be noted that Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz also sent a positive opinion to the High House, which states in his letter that he welcomes the draft law on the amendment of the law passed and that it will benefit the functioning of disabled persons, facilitating the acquisition of rights to drive three-wheeled vehicles, thereby increasing the mobility of these people. Mobility for people with disabilities is extremely important. The barrier to mobility makes it very often difficult for these people to find work or even ordinary everyday matters. The three-wheelers, or actually the changes in the way they get the rights to move them, will make these barriers disappear. Finally, however, I would like to point out that I absolutely agree with the position of the government, which presented a different point of view on this issue, related to road safety. It must be made clear that users of tricycles should be aware of the high level of responsibility for road safety. I recall that when the Sejm applied to motorbike mobility in a similar way, this did not improve safety, we must make it clear to ourselves. Therefore, we give a wonderful tool for Poles to be more mobile, especially those with disabilities, but we give responsibility and safety in the road when moving tricycles to those who will use these three-wheelers. This is worth remembering, because road safety is just as important as having rights and fighting these barriers. Ladies and gentlemen! Given my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, representative of the Club of the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will also support legislative work to formalise the provisions contained in this parliamentary bill. We consider them to be good, responding to the expectations of a large group of our society, those who need help in certain situations, which will open up the possibility of taking broader social and professional action. We believe that, after the Ministry has adopted and introduced certain implementing acts by the Minister, which will also concern the sphere of implementation of this law, as well as meet expectations and guarantee safety, order, order on the roads, the law will serve those who expect it to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u309	Thank you very much. I'm closing the list of questions. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Marek Wójcik has come forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, in Poland there is a problem with obtaining permission to drive tricycles. I am glad that this law - all points out - will be passed and that really these solutions will be implemented for Polish drivers. Applicants indicate in their project that the introduction of these solutions will lead to the development of the market for tricycles in Poland. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: Is there any information in the CEPiK or in any other registers about how many three-wheel vehicles are registered in Poland? I think the specific feature of this type of vehicle is that some of them are factory vehicles and some - vehicles made from standard motorcycles to tricycles. Does the Minister have any information about what it looks like, what part of these vehicles are factory vehicles and what kind of vehicles are being processed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u311	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Mr Marek Chodkiewicz will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have data on the total number of vehicles coming from CEPiK. There's about 600 of these vehicles. Unfortunately, however, we do not have data on which are factory and which are so-called. composites or possibly processed vehicles. I can't answer that question right now. Thank you very much. [[I see. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u313	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017 (Prints No. 2790 and 2820). I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Communications and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. The draft submitted concerns a revision of the provisions of the Convention designed to bring producers from non-European countries into line with the situation of producers from the Council of Europe's Member States. It should be stressed that the European Convention on Film Co-production, drawn up in Strasbourg on 2 October 1992, was an act necessary for the design and implementation of audiovisual productions, mainly film productions. It was adopted and ratified by the Republic of Poland in December 2002 and entered into force on 1 March 2003. The amendment to the Convention does not concern its fundamental principles. However, it has proved necessary due to the dynamic development of modern technologies, the growing differences in production finance systems in European countries and the economic and financial changes that have taken place in the audiovisual sector over the last 25 years. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the intention of the changes was also to avoid the emerging divergences in interpretation of the provisions of the Convention in the individual countries applying it. The revised Convention sets out the objective of promoting the development of international co-production. In order to achieve this, it was done, among others. changes to the definition, the minimum and maximum shares of the co-producers necessary to apply for support under the Convention have been defined. All co-producers were guaranteed co-ownership of the model copy and participation in the copyright of the film and were allowed to benefit from the support of producers from non-European countries. The application procedure has also been amended. The text of the revised Convention was adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 29 June 2016, which concluded the negotiation process. The revised Convention was opened for signature on 30 January Ub. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland adopted a resolution on granting consent to the signing of the Convention on Film Co-production (as amended) in May ub. On 18 July 2017, the Polish Ambassador signed the Convention on behalf of the Republic of Poland. The adoption of the revised Convention will not reduce the fundamental benefits resulting from it for the Polish audiovisual sector, and the extension of its scope should increase the participation of creators and crews from non-European countries in European productions. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering the draft law at its meeting on 11 September this year. asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law from print no. 2790 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u315	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anita Czerwińska will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. There is no Member, therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will speak by Mrs Bożena Henczyc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. The European Convention on Co-production in Strasbourg in 1992 was adopted and ratified by the Republic of Poland in December 2002 and entered into force on 1 March 2003. The amendment of this convention, which does not concern its fundamental principles, has proved necessary due to the dynamic development of modern technologies, the growing differences in production financing systems in European countries, and the economic and financial changes that have taken place in the audiovisual sector over the last 25 years. The first proposal to amend the European Convention on Film Co-production came in 2012 in the form of a request to modernise the provisions on specific issues covered by the Convention. This initiative was based on a Council of Europe report and an expert opinion. In December 2013, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe decided once again to work on preparing a draft amendment to the Convention by 15 experts selected from the 43 countries. The Convention entered into force on 1 October 2017. The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland decided on this subject to grant consent to the signing of the Convention. In July 2017, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, the Convention was signed by Janusz Stańczyk, Ambassador of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Poland to the Council of Europe. The adoption of the revised Convention will not have any financial implications for the state budget and local government units in the form of a reduction in revenue, an increase in expenditure or a change in their structure. Binding of the Republic of Poland to the Council of Europe Convention on co-production of films in accordance with art. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland should be ratified with the prior consent expressed in the Act. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is therefore in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Appeal will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017. The Modern Posel Club will, of course, vote for Poland's ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Film Co-production. Dynamic changes within both the cinematography and the market in which film works operate force us to adapt legislation to modern realities. A very important step in this direction is the document that we are working on, which, hopefully, will improve international cooperation in the production of further paintings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u319	Mrs Pasławska has spoken in writing. No one's asked questions. Thus, the list of Members voted in is closed. No one is acting on behalf of the Ministry. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u320	The European Convention on co-production was adopted and ratified by the Republic of Poland in December 2002 and entered into force on 1 March 2003. The amendment of this Convention, which does not concern its fundamental principles, has proved necessary due to the dynamic development of modern technologies, the growing differences in production financing systems in European countries and the economic and financial changes that have taken place in the audiovisual sector over the last 25 years. The intention was also to avoid discrepancies in the interpretation of the Convention by the institutions responsible for granting co-production status in each country applying it. The noticeable trend in integrating producers from non-European countries into co-productions has also led to the need to amend the provisions of the Convention in order to align producers from non-European countries with producers from the members of the Council of Europe. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u321	The position of the PSL-UED club vis-à-vis the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Co-production (amended), drawn up at Rotterdam on 30 January 2017, print No. 2790 and 2820. The revision of the Convention has proved necessary due to the dynamic development of modern technologies, the growing differences in production financing systems in European countries, and the economic and financial changes that have taken place in the audiovisual sector over the last 25 years. The intention was also to avoid the emerging discrepancies in the interpretation of the 1992 Convention by the institutions responsible for granting co-production status in each country applying it. In addition, a noticeable trend in recent years to include producers from non-European countries in co-productions, among others. in the form of bilateral agreements, caused the need to amend the provisions of the Convention in order to align the legal situation of producers from non-European countries with that of producers from the Member States of the Council of Europe. The club has a positive assessment of the regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u322	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency (prints No 2865 and 2875). I ask Mrs Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media, I present to the High House the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law on the Polish Press Agency. The scope of the amendments proposed by the applicants is small and aims to enable the acquisition of shares free of charge by eligible employees of companies resulting from commercialisation and merger with the Polish Press Agency. The authorised staff shall have the right to purchase up to 15% free of charge shares covered by the Treasury on the date on which the company was entered in the register. The merger of the company resulting from the commercialisation with another company is therefore a specific way of disposing of shares on a general basis. The proposed law will not burden the state budget and is compatible with European Union law. The joint committees, following the vote today, recommend that these changes be further examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pielucha will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to give a positive opinion on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. The amendment of the law consists of a derogation from the rule that the State Treasury retains all shares of the Polish Press Agency. The regulation contained in the amendment introduces a solution whereby in the case of the commercialisation of the company and the transfer of assets to PAP persons who are entitled to purchase shares or shares of the company free of charge from the Treasury may benefit from this right up to 15%, as I said before. shares of the company. In practice, it is about the development of the state publishing house Rzeczpospolita, i.e. the remains, which remained after the privatisation of Presspublik, publisher among others. Rzeczpospolita, firm Gremi Zakład Protective Work Grzegorz Hajdarowicz. I recommend this amendment on behalf of the PiS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. [[But the Member may come at the end.]] On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mrs Elżbieta Zielińska. There isn't any either. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rest of it is a very serious problem. We were wondering today at the meeting of both committees why you are trying to change ownership. Maybe it is worth saying two sentences about the history of the Polish Press Agency. The Polish Press Agency actually has 100 years. That's what I'm saying, thinking it was made on October 31, 1918. At the time it was called the Polish Telegraph Agency. The goods were taken over by Polish journalists from the Austrian agency. A week later, the Council of Ministers agreed that the Polish Telegraph Agency would become a state asset. Today we have a serious problem with the property of the press. We need to think about what is hanging on us, that is, the concentration of the media that PiS has been seeking for a long time. Does that also involve the problem that we are discussing today? That's a question no one can answer today, and that's the question I'm putting out of this bleacher. It seems to me that in some sense freedom of the Republic of Poland is at stake. Of course, I am thinking of a journal that is world-spectrum neutral, politically neutral, very professionally run by the editorial office and publishing house. There's a lot of questions. In view of what happened today at the meeting of the two committees, I would like to make it clear here that the Law and Justice voted these proposals by three votes, because it was probably 18 to 15. It is important to remember this and to emphasize it. The modern does not agree with this movement and we hope that the next debates will come out of the bag. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u328	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency, I would like to say that I am surprised by the procedure of proceding. The project appeared 3 days ago, in express mode was introduced to the committee meeting, there was no time for substantive discussion at the committee meeting. Everyone feels like there's something going on in that bill. Those were the voices. The time ran tirelessly, because an hour was spent on the entire committee meeting, there was no time for a substantive discussion. On the other hand, it seems to me that the issue is quite important, important and can raise serious objections. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, we will continue to look at further proceding, but we are surprised by this process. If the bill is so obvious, if it is so transparent, if it is so short, then it is necessary to discuss it clearly and clearly from the beginning to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u330	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u331	Dear Marshal, Thank you so much for letting me perform, even though I didn't make it right. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform referred to the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Press Agency. My first point concerns the issue of merity, because please note that normally, if someone were to join two companies, he would probably be talking about joining companies or bringing the assets of one company to another. And here the matter of this solution is very mysterious, because we are talking about the fact that the entire property of the company is created as a result of commercialization and is to be brought to the Polish Press Agency, i.e. I understand this situation so that the entity that exists, whose property is to be transferred, stays and the property of this company is removed and transferred to the Polish Press Agency. In exchange for such a transfer, because it cannot be free of charge, the company from which the property was transferred to PAP will receive some compensation. This is the first point of substance - the mystery of the proposed solution itself. [[Legally.]] The second point concerns the transfer of rights of workers who worked or within the meaning of the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of workers were entitled to purchase up to 15% shares on a free-of-charge basis. The proposed law assumes that as a result of the transfer of property to the Polish Press Agency, these employees will receive shares free of charge from the State Treasury. Please note that such a solution has not yet been foreseen in the Polish law system, that employees of the company... [[In the Gazeta Wyborcza.]] ...in a situation where there was no privatisation, they were to receive shares. That wasn't the situation. But please pay attention to another paradox. The employees of the company whose property is transferred to the Polish Press Agency will be shareholders of the Polish Press Agency, and the employees of the Polish Press Agency, who have always worked in this agency, in this company, will not have the right to share. So those who worked in this company will not be entitled to shares, and those who come will be entitled to shares in this company. This is another paradox, which has not yet been in the Polish law system. We favor people, we divide them into better and worse, we don't know why. And the third point, most touchy from my point of view. This law changes the system of the Polish Press Agency. In the current legal situation, in accordance with Article. 7th Act on the Polish Press Agency, Polish Press Agency was to remain only a company with the participation of the State Treasury. This has been envisaged and provided for in Article so far. 7 law on the Polish agency. It was always supposed to be a single-member company of the Treasury. And what's in this project that we're leading to? This project is nothing but a privatisation of the Polish Press Agency, because in a situation where other shareholders than the Treasury appear in the company, it is already a private person. It is not a single-member company of the State Treasury, a company with an exclusive share of the State. Please note that the Polish Press Agency will include shares of entitled persons, but no one who is entitled to take away the right to hold these shares will be able to hold these shares on general terms. So this could happen: it was assumed, creating the Polish Press Agency system, that this company is always to remain under the sole control of the State, and we are leading to a situation in which other shareholders of this company will appear. At this point we are changing the system of this company, which was to be a single-member company of the State Treasury, and since then remains a private person. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, if it is possible, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is asking for the rejection of the proposed law at second reading, and if this law is not rejected at second reading, I am asking for a new title to be given to this proposed law, namely this law, in accordance with its intention, should be called the Act on privatisation of the Polish Press Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's the same in other companies.]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u332	Thank you. Now one Member has come forward to ask the question. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u333	Mrs Gawlik said that you are privatising today, as Mr Gawlik said. I have a question for the applicants: What will this property be and what value will this 15% represent? shares, when do you change the system concerning the company of the Treasury, the Polish Press Agency, through its privatisation? Aren't you afraid... or will you take a second step to sell to other shareholders? Someone can acquire, and then at the general meeting of shareholders, a resolution on raising capital and taking capital by others can be made and adopted. So what was the principle that this company is a company of the State Treasury, today you are changing, that is why it is customs, accurate and reliable indication that you are privatizing the State. Tell me how many private individuals will be available... what will be the value of their shares in this company. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: After all, the bill says everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u334	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Lewandowski will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[Have you read about GetBack?]] Please don't make any noise in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u335	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This bill, which has been submitted, is intended to enable the merger of two companies of the Treasury. One of these companies was founded on the basis of the Act on Commercialisation of State Enterprises and therefore persons at the time of the transformation of the company, i.e. about 160 persons, acquired rights up to 15% shares, as is stated in Section IV of the above-mentioned Act. If we combine two companies of the Treasury and in one of them are the rights of employees to share, we must guarantee them the right to exercise this right to hold shares, because this is a guarantee of the right to share, not of the shares themselves. Because the provision of the article. 7 clearly states that 100% belongs to the Treasury, but in the proposed law there is an exception, i.e. This does not affect the rights of employees, but when the two companies are merged, one of which, the Polish Press Agency, has its own law, which, as it stands, would prevent this right from being exercised, we would deprive those workers of certain money that they deserve. Since it is clearly stated in the Act that this applies only to companies which were created under the Commercialisation Act, it means that this cannot apply to private companies, we cannot raise ourselves in such a way as to raise capital. And the shares that would belong to these PWR employees after the merger, that's about 4%. , between 4% a 5% , and actually these are the rights to these shares, the only way they can implement them is to sell them back to the Treasury, because art. 7 further states that 100% It's supposed to belong to the State Treasury. This does not affect the right to take up these shares and the only right they can exercise is to sell them to the State Treasury. On the other hand, we want to achieve synergies between the two companies - one previously trained for the press, in which the buildings and the publishing house were left, Detective, which I highly recommend as a representative of the owner of the company, which notabene brings income... PWR also brings income, its value is similar to that of the Polish Press Agency. She is estimated at about 45 to 50 million at the moment, while PAP is estimated at a little over 60 million, so they can easily connect together. The Polish Press Agency outside the core business it operates, i.e. outside the performance of its duties under the Act on PAP, also owns e.g. an old printery on the Minsk 65, which is a cultural centre, exhibition centre, etc. Here we have an additional synergy effect, because at this point the assets are joined together, there are additional possibilities for launching the exploitation of these properties and an additional profit for both companies under the same management and this gives the possibility to develop the new company more effectively. This has absolutely nothing to do with any privatisation. I know you're familiar with privatisation by now... [[Voice from the room: These are privatisation specialists.]] ...because you've been so focused over the last few years. We're doing the opposite. We are trying to consolidate different companies so that they can work more effectively. [[Voice from the room: Central management, we know. Yes, of course.]] And that's one of those... We want to reduce the number of operators on the market, and I therefore believe that this action has a synergy effect. It is prepared and the only condition for this to be... the last condition for this to be possible is the adoption of this law in this form, which absolutely does not violate any rules. I just wanted to remind you one more thing. Earlier, until 2016, the Act did not say: 100% , only: control package 51% I guess, as far as I can remember, so it didn't bother anybody before. We've got a stiff 100% entry at the moment. , without violating workers' rights. I would not want us to leave here in the belief that the High Sejm, through the mouth of the opposition, wants to deprive a group of workers of the rights they acquired as a result of the transformation of their company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u336	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law (print No 2862). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mariusz Haladyja to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Before I begin to present individual solutions, at least a few of the chosen solutions of this package, maybe I will put it first, so to speak, in the work of our ministry in general, that is to say, a brief information only about the nature of the regulatory work of our ministry. Firstly, we are preparing projects which contain framework solutions for the pursuit of economic activities, which shape the general principles of doing business. An example is the amendment of the CCPD. before a year or a package of laws under the so-called. the business constitution. Secondly, we are preparing projects that solve specific groups of problems, systemic problems in a given area of activity. This is, for example. the law on succession management or the law on shortening the period of retention of employee records and their electronicisation. Finally, thirdly - and today's project belongs to this category - we are also preparing package laws, which in turn try to limit the point barriers to doing business, some more serious, others less systemicly important, seemingly even minor. On the other hand, all these solutions have one thing in common, i.e. they respond to the demands of entrepreneurs concerning matters that disturb them, I would even say that sometimes they irritate them, in the daily pursuit of business activities. Some of them would be difficult to change by separate laws, even though due to, I don't know, the economics of the legislative process, which is why we prepare such package laws every once in a while. I'm sure you've already read this project. These are issues from various fields that go beyond the strict and literal competence of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Therefore, this law would not have been created without cooperation with other resorts, but above all without cooperation with entrepreneurs. This package contains nearly 50 such concrete, point-by-point changes, which are intended to reduce legal barriers in the business environment, but mainly SMEs. Why is our resort on this subject area primarily targeted in its work? As we will look at the OECD studies, they show that the cost of the various administrative burdens for these smallest companies is even five times higher, and the European Commission estimates that one employee is up to ten times higher than in larger companies. At the same time, these smallest companies generate every second zloty of Polish GDP. The largest share of GDP is in micro-enterprises, close to 1/3 because 30%. Which is perhaps even more important to society, they make up 70% all jobs in the business sector. Therefore, as I am saying, the SME package is the result of talks with companies that we have on the occasion of various meetings, and a review of a number of rules from different branches of law. Through this type of action we remove, as I said, legal barriers, which often irritate our companies on a daily basis, are illogical, unnecessary, etc. We estimate, as regards the financial impact, that thanks to the package of SMEs over 10 years, businesses will save nearly PLN 4 billion in 10 years. So briefly, only briefly can present selected solutions, I will say that we allow e.g. to include in the cost of obtaining income claims under employment contracts, order contracts, work contracts paid to the spouse of a taxable person established or acting as a partner of a company which is not a legal person, i.e. primarily personal companies. What's interesting is that now the spouse's salary It's not at a tax expense, even though everyone else is. This is above all a change advocated by companies for a long time, by family companies, which is why this request comes out. Another thing, also related to small companies, concerns the possibility of clearing one-off: one-off deduction of tax losses up to PLN 5 million. If the loss exceeds the value of PLN 5 million, then this part is settled in subsequent years on current rules, i.e. up to 50% the amount of that loss. Thanks to this, we have a solution that - you can say - throws away bad luggage from the entrepreneur related to failure of investment plans in a given year in order to relieve it, free it from bad, so to speak, debts, bad balance sheet, bad liabilities in companies, which should increase the survival of companies. Another change that will not only be needed for SMEs is the tax exemption of the amount of compensation paid by the insurer in order to restore the damaged asset. So that's what we call a lift relief. There is a pro-investment solution that encourages companies to recreate assets that have been destroyed. Another such, in turn targeted, solution is the corporate tax exemption so-called. alternative investment companies. These are aggregate investment entities, which is something like a small investment fund. In Polish reality today, this solution is not popular at all, because, as a rule, due to tax issues, companies of this type are located abroad, especially Luxembourg is such a popular place. These alternative investment companies are also a great source of capital primarily for start-ups, i.e. small start-ups, which are highly investment-oriented, but also usually small capitalization. Hence this release for ASI to increase the financial vehicles for small companies. As regards VAT, we shorten the deadline for the creditor to apply the so-called rules. relief for bad debts of the present 150 days to 90 days. So this is another reduction in this threshold so as not to reward counterparties who do not pay their creditors and also have a tax advantage. It is well known that cash VAT is not a solution that can be introduced, due to the directive, but this solution is a little closer to some kind of cashibility in the VAT settlement. There are also a few minor changes in the field of VAT: the question of not submitting various forms of return or return declarations in an accelerated period of time. Leaving taxes, and going to e.g. health and safety at work, it must be said that here, in turn, we have a solution that covers nearly 6 million workers, affects more than one million employers. We propose abolishing the employer's absolute obligation to provide periodic health and safety training to administrative and office workers in the third category of risk. I would say that we have such an overly strict implementation of the European Directive today, and that is why it is adapting to certain realities. This is due to observation and conversations with companies, but also conversations with health and safety professionals. This is an obligation which does not particularly benefit, especially in relation to the costs incurred. Not in those categories, not in those positions where, in fact, working conditions do not differ from the risks faced by all citizens in private life, there are the greatest risks. As far as health and safety are concerned, e.g. we increase the employer's ability to perform the tasks of health and safety, we raise this threshold to 50 employees, which is the threshold of a small company. The employer will then be able to perform the tasks of the health and safety services itself without having to separate the health and safety services or entrust these tasks to an isolated worker at the workplace or outside the workplace. While remaining in this area on issues relating to workers, I might mention a solution which is intended to implement a system of requests for L4 exemptions, in particular those short-term exemptions. I stress that this is about making this system work, not putting in place some completely new control system. The point is simply to make those redundancies that are short-lived and which represent more than 50% all sick leave was verifiable. Today's double vision system is, of course, very obnoxious or lame when it comes to the possibility of catching certain irregularities. Depending on the type of employer from 70 to 100% the remuneration is paid during the first 33 days of the illness by the employer himself. I am no longer talking about the fact that, apart from costs, there is always a disorganization of the work of the workplace. Of course, I would stress that this change is not about banning the benefits of medical dismissal, it is about implementing the verification system for these exemptions, which is already in force today. In the field of local taxes, there is a history of the company's postulation, which operates in several municipalities, to standardize the model forms of declarations, in terms of local taxes, i.e. agricultural and forestry taxes, on real estate above all. Today, each municipality issues such a form on its own. We open the way for them to be harmonised by specifying the models of these forms in the regulation by the Minister of Finance. There is also a very useful change concerning companies whose activities involve the conclusion of many contracts subject to compulsory civil law tax, i.e. PCC. We give the opportunity to make such a monthly summary declaration and make a one-off payment of the tax instead of the entire course of those declarations. When it comes to, for example, about accounting issues, we extend the catalogue of units that can apply simplifications in financial reporting. As part of this work I learned what was very interesting for me, that the obligation to keep financial statements in companies is today unlimited, which is actually until the end of the company's existence. We therefore shorten this period to 5 years. This is as much as the tax obligation also implies. Sometimes there are documents that may be needed in this area, but surely there is no need to hold them longer. There are also, of course, specific savings for the storage of these documents. I'm just gonna talk a little bit more about trade law. Here we also have, especially in the case of companies that are the most popular form of doing business in the case of companies governed by commercial law - if I remember correctly, we have more than 400 thousand. companies in the O.O. - dozens of different kinds of changes. I will mention one which is largely focused on the safety of the rotation and the clarification of the situation. This concerns, for example, the issue of submission, the impact of legal acts which are carried out either by the alleged body of a legal person, i.e. wrongly filled, or by an organ well staffed, but exceeding the mandate. We allow this to be confirmed. Today we have many judgments of the court, even the Supreme Court, which are contradictory. There is no single dominant line in terms of impact. Therefore, we allow the possibility to confirm them. That's the way it is in the article. 103. We are also taking advantage of the achievements of the Committee on Civil Law Codification and the Dead. Professor Zbigniew Radwański, who was in charge of this work at the time. Finally, the project also includes, as regards companies or rules, a clear judgment concerning the rules for the representation of the company in liquidation, the resignation of the sole member of the Management Board, the cancellation of the shareholders' meeting, the liability of the company divided for its obligations after the separation. On a daily basis, this causes a lot of trouble in practice regarding the functioning of this most popular company. As I said at the beginning, this initiative is the next step, I stress that this is the stage, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the tedious, which I should in principle stress, the process of identifying such specific barriers and their gradual removal step by step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u338	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, print No. 2862. The bill provides for amendments to a number of laws, the main purpose of which is to simplify and facilitate business activity in Poland. This is another package after the package of 100 changes for companies, after the business constitution. They respond to the demands of entrepreneurs, they are expected and agreed with them. The project therefore envisages introducing regulations aimed at reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and extending the existing powers to a wider category of operators. The project also explains some of the interpretation doubts that have been revealed in relation to the pursuit of business activities and introduces tax exemptions for entrepreneurs, as well as tools that minimise the risks associated with tax burdens and conduct business contacts with counterparties who have proved unreliable. The objectives of the project are implemented through changes in two areas: tax law and economic law. The scope of changes in tax law includes, inter alia, harmonisation of the templates for all local tax forms, i.e. agricultural tax, real estate tax and forestry tax, and changes in income taxes providing for: the elimination of obligations which do not directly affect tax settlements and concern circumstances which can be determined on the basis of other documents held by the taxpayer; the increase of the income threshold for obtaining the status of a small taxpayer from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 2 million; the introduction of the possibility to account for the cost of obtaining income of the taxable person's labour value; the introduction of a one-off settlement of the tax loss up to EUR 5 million, as well as a number of amendments to the Accounting Act, among others. shortening the period of mandatory storage of approved financial statements for permanent storage up to 5 years. On the other hand, changes in the area of economic law include, among other things, changes in the area of economic law.: unambiguous definition of the legal effects of activities carried out by an unauthorized person to represent the company, which increases the safety of business turnover; specifying directly in the provisions the possibility of a non-partner to appoint a partner company to the management board; enabling shareholders to adopt resolutions in writing outside the shareholders' meeting, so-called. circulation mode. Changes in the Labour Code include: increasing the ability of an employer with up to 50 employees to perform health and safety tasks and qualifying for no higher risk than the third; reducing the obligation to provide periodic health and safety training for workers with the lowest accident rates and working environments with least health-related factors. This includes about 5 and 6 million administrative and office workers, as the Minister said here. It is also a specific implementation of the constitution for business, which assumes that the directives should be implemented so as not to impose additional burdens on the entrepreneur. Further: the possibility of notification by the Social Security Office or the employer of temporary checks on incapacity to work; the possibility for the county health inspector to receive mobile gastronomy in another county city than a registered company; changes in a number of laws concerning the abolition of the obligation to use a registered stamp or a company stamp as a requirement of formal documents, which are produced by entrepreneurs, and many other facilities, including about 50, which the Minister also referred to. The proposed rules will have a positive impact on the activities of micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. As a rule, new solutions will apply to all entrepreneurs. It is estimated that for 10 years around 4 billion PLN will be in the pocket of entrepreneurs, but in the great majority will be used by the smallest entrepreneurs. The main objective of the new regulation is to reduce administrative burdens and increase access to equity and thus stimulate investment. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law in print No 2862 and requests that it be referred to further work in the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u340	Thank you. Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft of this law includes changes in 30 other laws, which are repeated in many places in a generic way. That's 50 simplifications. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, this law sets itself the objective of abandoning legislation that limits the development of entrepreneurship, creating unnecessary bureaucratic burdens, hindering the daily work of entrepreneurs. Until recently, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that any change, even minimal, and simplification of activities are valuable, but unfortunately I cannot say this after 3 years of experience with legislation in this House. Let me remind you what today is the biggest problem for entrepreneurs. The biggest problem is that in this House there is an unstable, inconsistent and unpredictable law that can make all these good elements - and there are some good things that the Minister has said about - not least for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are waiting for the law to be established reliably, consulted, consulted, so that they know what awaits them, otherwise they cannot conduct a proper investment policy and their costs are increasing dramatically. We're running out of hands. This is a big problem for entrepreneurs. Today, the problem for them is not whether the real estate tax declaration in one municipality is one and another. The problem for them today is the lack of hands to work, and the government somehow doesn't show that he's gonna do anything about it. The second argument, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the fact that I have little faith in the fact that these simplifications will be of great importance to entrepreneurs. The rules should be applied if they are to work. I would like to quote here, ladies and gentlemen, one provision that was still in place for previous governments, although you are bragging that it was introduced into the so-called. It's a business constitution, and that's not true. That's the rule. settlement of doubts in favour of the taxpayer. Since 1 January 2016, this principle in the Tax Order has been functioning and - already a summary - it has been applied in three individual interpretations and 38 decisions. Not because there were few proposals in this case, but because the tax administration claims to know better and there is no doubt about the interpretation of the rules. And let me remind you what was the purpose of the creation of the National Tax Administration, this consolidation. This was supposed to be an increase in the efficiency of the tax services. Efficiency. That doesn't just mean speed. It is about the quality and compliance of the rules that have been applied there in the legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, economic freedom should be analysed in all the laws that are in place in this House. The same is true for all aspects of deregulation and regulation, because one resort prepares deregulation, and other resorts regulate business activity, restrict it, say when entrepreneurs can run it, who, on what days, say that Sunday is not allowed, and on other days it is allowed that something there may not be carried out within, in the form of an organisational limited liability company, etc. Therefore, if there is no uniform supervision, Minister, over all those rules that should be consistent, these deregulations will not really matter. The Civic Platform will work on this project in committee. We will put forward our solutions, proposals, and we will once again put forward provisions that will provide the basis for entrepreneurs, i.e. that the law should be established fairly and any provision that concerns entrepreneurs should be analysed in terms of its impact. Today, in this House, perhaps two hours ago, there was a debate on the bill that introduced the Solidarity Fund. And there, Minister, the bureaucratic burden is being imposed on entrepreneurs. And it could be done differently - we have proposed other solutions, but in that department nobody pays attention to it. I'd like you to take care of that, too. The same is true of the provisions on employee capital plans. So that all these things will not matter, because these additional regulations which increase bureaucratic burdens, which are present in other laws that are introduced in parallel in this House, are much bigger, more dangerous, more costly and discourage entrepreneurs from expanding their business and investing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u343	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, These dozens of changes are changes that, of course, go in the right direction. These are indeed point changes, but each of them will make life easier for entrepreneurs at least a little bit. I will stick here a little bit to what the honourable Mrs Janyska has said. I think we need something even more comprehensive. I think we need a financial reform. Of course, I know that the Minister is not in control of such a reform, but this is the first issue, the second - the stability of the law, the third - indeed some of the rules are on paper and this example given by Mrs Janyska is probably the most extreme example of what the reality looks like in contrast to the declarations that you sometimes present here. Those things that we still need to change are very much, but it would be very important for the state to change the law on official liability. Because, of course, we can talk about one solution or another, which, of course, as I said earlier, is good, and I think that all entrepreneurs will be happy with these changes, while if an official continues to have as much power and will be able to interpret the rules as he wants, then we will have the same thing the other way, I apologize, which means that this law will be unstable and can be interpreted as a person likes - whether yes or not. I see this duality in action, too. On the one hand, we have here these solutions that we have been looking at, considering one of the previous points of order - perhaps two points earlier. On the one hand, you want to give e.g. bigger depreciation copies, as it was before, about six months ago we were working on it. Now there will be an increase in the value of this tax loss, which we actually proposed some time ago, I from this speaker suggested, because I was an applicant, unfortunately colleagues from the PiS rejected that project. Well, now he's here, so it's good to finally... [[And now he's very good.]] ...but it's a shame, because it could have worked two years ago, because two years ago, I offered it from that podium. On the other hand, e.g. Car leasing will be limited to what I know, so this is dualism. You don't enter, for example. valorisation of depreciation write-offs. These are the things I think they are. On the one hand, of course, we are very happy, at least I am glad that this project is going in the right direction, and we will work on it with you in the deregulation committee. Maybe there's something else we can do here for these entrepreneurs. I hope so. On the other hand, however, these even more comprehensive solutions, such more courageous, structural ones, are indeed lacking. But as I said before, I don't think the minister's entirely affected by the reform of public finances, but it's all in front of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u344	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact is, we believe in your good intentions. You want the best for entrepreneurs, but it doesn't always work out well later in practice, because this practice doesn't really depend on you much anymore. I would ask you not to use the term "business constitution" anymore, because the constitution is a set of comprehensive rules, but it turns out that we now have more packages. I'll be honest with you, I don't want to be a bad prophet, but it may turn out that entrepreneurs at the end will say, "Listen, give up these deregulations, because we will spend more on lawyers and advisors than we will save as a result of your actions." It's just that there's so much overregulation that I don't think this deregulation committee can handle all of this. It's not good, it's been moved here, but I'll pick it up again. Minister, if you have read the data provided by the Rzeczpospolita, the main principle of operation of the Constitution for business is that all offices are to interpret the rules in favour of the trader and the taxpayer. It's not working. No, Minister, I'm afraid that's the case. These interpelations, those cases that are in the tax offices, if there are doubts about the rules, are unfortunately not interpreted in favour of the entrepreneur, and not in this way it was intended to work. Therefore, Minister, we will certainly support all these solutions that will help entrepreneurs, but I will not hide that all of this should be prepared in a holistic manner, and this dosage of legislation, as I say, is causing some confusion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Okay, he's talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u346	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This must be deregulated - I speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats - in the scope of this next, next and subsequent deregulation law. There used to be numbering and there was deregulation one, two, three. What I'm saying here is that the deregulations didn't start under the PiS rule, but they've been done before, because we're about to find out that there's some success and deregulation that the PiS has introduced and what we've achieved here. If we were to look at how much we are talking about deregulation in this term of office, then everything could be done, no administrative barriers for entrepreneurs, because we are just deregulating and deregulating. Perhaps there is a need, and it is evident from something. If that is the case, it means that there is overregulation, that we introduce too many rules that are unclear and illegible. To be honest, this deregulation and these improvements are not seen by the entrepreneur. They complain about difficulties in interpreting the law. This is not enough, it is also reflected at the level of investment in our country, there is a decline in it, it cannot be concealed. That's why it's good, Minister, that you're doing it, but you have to think about the reason... You were just presenting 50 positions here because you had to count to 50, because five at the beginning is significant at the moment. There could be 500, and then there's a plus, and it'd be good too. But that's not the point. With regard to taxes levied by local governments, local taxes, I know that there was trouble, only that through this change we are already entering the area of free functioning of local governments. Because it was their domain that they regulated the form of this tax and the way in which these declarations and declarations were collected. It was difficult for entrepreneurs, but they have already got used to it, because if the company operates for at least a year, it already knows more or less how to move in this area. We'll be working on these deregulations. I'm sure there's gonna be some income here, only that we're gonna also show these overregulations that make it harder for entrepreneurs to operate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u348	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, an independent Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I get the impression that the government is turning into a united entertainment industry, because there's really no way to smile. widely when reading the title of the law itself. It reads: to amend certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. And the bill counts on the justification of 282 pages. To be addressed to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. A small and medium-sized entrepreneur, ladies and gentlemen, who either accounts for himself or with the help of one accountant, probably would have to spend about a week studying it. And that shows what direction There goes the so-called one. deregulation. Is there at least one tax being abolished here? Is there at least one office that abuses businessmen here? Is this where one law is removed, even one law is removed? [[Health and safety, how much does it cost?]] No, not at all. There are, of course, changes that will complicate the situation more and more. Of course, some of them are going in the right direction, but the result will be such, ladies and gentlemen, that of course there will be tons, hundreds more, thousands of pages of tax interpretations on how to apply all of this. And this is what happens when we already have tens of thousands of tax and economic legislation on entrepreneurs, when we have more than 120,000. parties to legal acts, interpretation of VAT itself, when Polish entrepreneurs are unable to understand what law applies to them. Calling it deregulation, as I said, can only make you smile on your face. What do you have to do, ladies and gentlemen? What is there to do in this situation? We know what to do because we have some experience. It was a very good proposal to introduce a simple income tax instead of this hopeless, inefficient, sick income tax. There was such a very good offer. Of course, it was rejected. But most importantly, this year we will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Wilczek Act, which on two sides with a piece introduced economic freedom, eliminated socialism, introduced capitalism. We had the best economic law in Europe, one of the best in the world. Economic freedom has been introduced by two parties, but what is important is that dozens of legal acts have been repealed on the following pages. If you want to deregulate, you repeal the law, and you don't create new ones. The republic of many rights is evil and corrupt, and unfortunately in this direction. It's all coming. So, let me put it this way, don't rape the word "deregulation," because it has nothing to do with deregulation, and if you really want economic freedom, bring back the Wilczek bill. Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u350	No one's asked questions. [[I signed in...]] Indeed. Five Members have come forward. I'm so sorry. The first question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club. I'm closing the list. [[How long?]] Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The strategy for responsible development, which this government has been implementing since the beginning of its operation, has been demonstrated, among others. in creating better conditions for entrepreneurs to take initiatives that develop their activity and relieve them of red tape. The contested bill introduces a regulation aimed at reducing the administrative burden imposed on entrepreneurs, explains some interpretation doubts revealed, introduces tax exemptions for entrepreneurs and others. The objectives of the bill are pursued by changes in two areas: tax law and economic law. I ask the Minister in principle rhetorical questions: Will the proposed simplification of regulations and procedures relieve businesses and their employees, relieve certain unnecessary administrative formalities and, as a result, increase the efficiency of the management of their resources and enable them to focus on basic activities? Will this strengthen efficiency and consequently competitiveness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u352	Mr Jacek Wilk, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u353	My question too - as I predict - will be rhetorical, because I would like to ask you whether you consider it necessary to restore economic freedom in Poland, and if so, when you will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u354	Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, you can complain that there are 100,000. legislation, but this is the reality we live in, and unfortunately we will not change it with one act. Although this is why the Wilczek Act cannot function, that we are in a different legal reality, we are in the European Union and we must apply these rules. Thank you for the work that was done at the Ministry, because these may indeed be small steps, but small steps towards a good for small companies. I have the following question. As regards EUR 2 million, which is the threshold for a small taxpayer, does it apply to PIT and CIT entrepreneurs? I guess so, at least I think so, but that's the answer I'd like to get. As regards the work of the spouse and the cost of obtaining income, does this also include the minor child? Because right now, in those regulations, it was off. I would also like to thank for the changes in health and safety, because it was indeed an additional cost for the entrepreneur, and sometimes it was a fiction which caused that people employed in harmless jobs had to carry out periodic surveys. To sum up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes are good, but I ask you to answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u356	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u357	I notice the government is reading. On health and safety, you are one of my demands that I put forward in the discussion, but I would like you to go further in order to simplify the categories of risks and how they are defined, to extend this deadline. Micro-enterprises. PLN 2 million for keeping accounts, income and income books. Keep moving, because the NBP said that there were doubts about the limitation of activities. Perhaps an adjustment mechanism would have to be applied at least to the increase in inflation contributions. We have private equity plans. This is an extra burden on taxpayers, 1.5% or 2% When it comes to employees. Go on. Payment congestion and shortening of the deadline for VAT. That's what they're gonna thank you for. And these are just illusory little steps. Take a big step. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u358	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One question. Minister, we have been working on a constitution for business and it seemed that there was cooperation, all the more so because in the Committee on Economics and Development we are really trying to work with substance. I have a question as to whether the Law and Justice representative has called for this bill to be passed to the D.C. deregulation is the result of the Ministry's suggestion that it go there, not to the Committee on Economics and Development. Because I think this is the place for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u360	This list of Members has been exhausted. Will you answer, Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Questions were asked.]] Those were rhetorical questions. [[Oh, no, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u361	Thank you, Marshal. I'll do my best. The issue of unstable law. Some of the Members who have asked questions are not, therefore, telegraphed. I would also like us to talk about statistics and not just repeat certain circular opinions. At the moment, we have half the production of the law in relation to the same period. This is, among other things. the effect of the adopted way of working, both within the Council of Ministers and in Parliament, of the need to carry out a thorough assessment of the impact of regulation on individual areas, individual actors. Several of you referred to the so-called issue. rules in dubio pro reo. Excuse me, in dubio pro tributario. That's right, there's been media coverage lately that this clause wasn't used in the office. But if we're talking about introducing a presumption of honesty clause, I'm sorry, settling legal doubts, you remember, a year ago we introduced this principle into the c.p.a. We have formulated it slightly differently from the principle contained in the tax ordination. K.p.a. There's a year and a little bit. We already have a few administrative judgments referring to the principle of in dubio pro libertate, so these are not empty changes. There is little about all the rules that we introduced more than a year ago in the c.a., there are already judgments of voivodship administrative courts, and even the NSA, which repeal concrete, negative decisions for entrepreneurs or citizens, because here we have c.p.a., referring to the general principles introduced in the amendment of the c.p.a. So it's really not an empty recipe. So the rules work, they are later partially repeated in the Business Law Act, because it has a wider or slightly different range than the K.P.A., therefore it cannot be said that these are empty regulations or some kind of insignificant ornaments. Mr Kasprzak said about local forms. First of all, it is definitely not a matter of entering the sphere of freedom or the issues of some kind of independence of the local government. I am even a little surprised that this is how you said it, because you said that entrepreneurs are working themselves out, they're used to it. It is precisely about not getting used to stupid solutions and civilizing certain activities. If we can make it easier for companies who are constantly complaining about this provision so that there is one form throughout the country for tax e.g. From real estate or land, let's do it. To confirm this, the joint committee of the government and the local government recommended the package positively and therefore recommended the solution. Mr Wolf... I mean, there's also a question with your president that there's a lot of rules again. Firstly, I believe that it is difficult to draw up one law that will bury once and for all, in the sense of giving up all kinds of obligations that are illogical, unnecessary, excessive, disproportionate. It's hard to do that. We also work in such a way that we talk to companies every day, whether I'm going to a meeting, whether some friends from the ministry are coming, and these are meetings from which we just bring something. It's not like we're all gonna sit down for a week over all the laws, over the entire Journal of Settings, and we're gonna pick up, so to speak, some kind of overregulation, because it's not possible, and without working with entrepreneurs, we're not gonna be able to do it. That's where the next initiatives are coming from. It is not that because business law failed, it is now the second package. As I said at the beginning, there are actions at different levels and there are framework solutions, even if these principles are in order. They begin to penetrate the law to constitute, as we have said, this shield for entrepreneurs in the form of such rules, guaranteeing their rights in conflict, so to speak, with detailed regulations. Of course, we can say, as Mr Wilk said, that there are 282 pages and the entrepreneur will not read it, but the alternative is that if we do not change it, he will have to carry out the duties that we are letting go here in a number of places. So it's either one or the other. Deregulations... I don't think I've ever used the word "deregulations." This is about Mr Wolf's reservation. On the other hand, with regard to the Wilczek Act, the Member has already said this: we are not today under conditions under which the Wilczek Act can simply enter into the Official Journal of the Laws and the matter will be settled. She was created under different conditions. I am not talking about the European Union anymore, because this is one obvious consideration, but we also had a completely different constructed law. We had the right to reproduce. It operated in various kinds of circulars, letters of ministers, presidents of offices, etc. Then the entry into force of the law actually caused everything that was under the law to fall, but - I don't like to say it - to throw in this grenade, as far as this law is concerned, and such a total deregulation of many lower-ranking acts which were incompatible with that law and imposed various kinds of obligations, caused some entrepreneurs to get ricocheted, because unfortunately with fair competition on the market it was also different. Hence the subsequent encapsulation of Polish law, because let us remember that some of the different types of sharpening are not only the invention of various types of offices, bodies, ministries, etc. Part of such regulation is the result of the demands of the entrepreneurs themselves, who were nodded somewhere, deceived by an unfair counterparty or a counterparty who used its market position towards them. So when it comes to this request from the President to do this holistically, okay, it's just a question of how much it is possible in the sense that we actually sit down once, we make one package that changes a thousand laws and for example. For 15 years, we have peace. [[And we're gonna erase 800 of this.]] But is it possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u362	Minister, don't get involved with the Members, just finish your speech. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: Yeah, I'm slowly heading to shore. Mr Duda said he was asking a rhetorical question. There's no envoy. I'm just gonna answer, there's 50 different kinds, whether it's deleted or limited. 4 billion on the entrepreneur's side. An example of health and safety, I think, is good to illustrate the nature of this package. As to Mr Wolf's question, I understand that this is the subject of the Wolf's Law. We can talk about it, but today there is no way to simply repeal everything, insert the Wilczek bill and move forward. Mr Gawron has asked specific questions here about 2 million. Yes, 2 million are for both PIT and CIT. To include a spouse in the cost, this solution, in general, also includes minors. Madam President Krystyna Skowrońska spoke, among others.: Take the congestion and VAT. When it comes to, for example, for a relief for bad debts, i.e. this deadline for the recovery of VAT from the unpaid invoice charge, we are narrowing it down to 90 days. Congestion. It is devoted to a separate bill prepared by the Ministry. It shall be at the consultation and agreement stage. At the moment these works are underway, although, as I said, this is not the last activity of the Ministry. We can talk about the categories of risks in terms of health and safety, although it is also a question of how this can be simplified, because it is also very casuistic today. There are actually a lot of boxes and so on, but... [[You have to do this every once in a while, every three years you have to assess the risks.]] They are automatically updated just through the accident algorithm in different categories. There, the position automatically jumps from one risk category to another if the conditions change. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The Ministry has no influence on the committee. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, contained in print No.2862, to the Extraordinary Commission... [[Objection.]] ...for deregulation cases for consideration. Objection, I hear. [[Yes.]] [[To the Economics Committee.]] What committee are you... [[To the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development.]] Okay, we'll settle in the voting block. Are you guys up to the next point? There isn't. [[What do you mean? I am.]] All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 01 hours 20 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on companies investing in real estate rentals (print No.2855). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u363	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a draft law in the 2855 print on companies investing in real estate rentals. The proposed law aims to stimulate investment in the activities of rental real estate, as well as to increase the involvement of domestic capital, especially small investors, because this law facilitates small investors to invest in real estate rental in such a way that their money is safe and that return on invested capital is attractive to them. The basic construction provided for in the Act is the company investing in the rental property. We predict that it will be a public limited company listed on the stock exchange, which will have at least PLN 50 million of capital. This company will either be able to invest directly in residential properties and rent them, operate rental activities, or may have subsidiaries, i.e. will be able to pack these properties into some packages, and these subsidiaries will rent these residential properties to those already interested. An important fiscal feature of this proposal is that the rental income of the property will be taxed at a very preferential tax rate of 8,5%. This bet depends on... this bet will be... I mean, this tax will be charged not at the time when the rental income is realised, but only when the dividend is paid to the actual investor, i.e. the company investing in the rental of the property will pay the dividend directly to its shareholder. In a situation where, say, the subsidiary only pays dividends to the public limited liability company in respect of which it is a subsidiary, nothing is happening yet, but the transfer of money to the final investor results in a tax obligation. We have established such a very specific way of determining the tax base, namely that we do not allow the depreciation of the property to be deducted. This is the basic cost of a real estate company. But we did it specifically to offset the effect of this very low stake. As a result, such an effective rate of taxation, which will actually apply to these rental revenues, will be around 17%. It could be hesitant, it could be 13, it could be 17, between 8.5 and 19. But what's important is that there's no tax on paying dividends to investors. So this will be the first time in the Polish tax system when an individual investor investing in a capital company receives a dividend that is not subject to dividend tax. There will be only one burden of paying income tax on property rental income. The transfer of this dividend will only entail the obligation to pay the tax. We predict that companies investing in real estate rentals will be required to pay dividends annually and this will be a factor that will encourage individual investors to teach money, to invest in real estate rental companies. If it were to happen that the company investing in the real estate lease would provide for such a scheme that it would have subsidiaries also active in the rental business, then also dividends which will be paid by those subsidiaries will be exempt and will not be taxed. So in short, taxation will only take place when the investor gets the actual flow of money from the company in which he invested to himself. This is the institution that we provide for individual investors and institutional investors. What we expect is that we will stimulate the residential property market, that companies and companies investing in real estate rentals will revive the real estate rental market in Poland. This is a long-term project. It's not gonna be like we're gonna start these companies, and it's gonna be a recovery. On the other hand, we expect that this recovery in the longer term will have positive consequences on the real estate market. Companies investing in real estate rentals are modelled on companies in Western Europe known as real estate investment trust. Such solutions are found in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, the UK, Germany, Italy and other countries. What lies at the heart of this law is that these companies will invest in real estate rentals for residential purposes. We predict that one of the conditions will be that at least 70% the area of the real estate that will be rented shall be the area for residential use. In short, these are the most important assumptions of this project. I hope that I have aroused your interest, and I will be happy to answer all the questions relating to this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u364	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement concerning the government draft law on companies investing in real estate rentals, Parliamentary Printing No. 2855. The aim of the proposed legal solutions is to introduce into the national legal order the status of a company investing in real estate rental, which is a public limited company and is equivalent to entities operating in the European Union, REIT companies, in countries such as: The Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, where the first such companies were established in 1969. According to the developer, the introduction of these provisions will have a positive impact on the attractiveness of taking up and doing business in the rental real estate market. It will also contribute to increasing the share of economic operators in this market and thus to reducing its fragmentation. This is due to the provision of corporate income tax preferences, CIT, and personal income tax, PIT, for companies investing in real estate rentals, their subsidiaries, as well as for investors, shareholders, companies investing in real estate rentals. In the case of a company investing in real estate rentals, the more favourable tax conditions would be to defer the CIT tax obligation on income earned, inter alia. from the rental of residential property and from the sale of such immovable property until their equivalent to the payment of dividends to investors, shareholders and the introduction of a CIT rate of 8.5 per cent on the income of the company investing in the rental of residential property. On the other hand, subsidiaries of a real estate company will be able to benefit from a CIT exemption on income derived from the rental of residential property and from the sale of residential property provided that the dividend is paid within a specified period to a real estate company investing in the lease. The provisions of the proposed law also provide for exemption from income tax on capital investment income in a public limited company. This exemption will apply to investors who are taxpayers of both CIT and PIT. The introduction into the national legal system of a company investing in real estate rental does not mean that only such companies will be able to carry out activities involving residential real estate rentals. It is stressed that the decision whether to operate in the regime of a company investing in real estate rentals or to conduct an economic activity on a general basis will be the responsibility of the entity concerned. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal for a law on companies investing in real estate rentals and is therefore in favour of directing it to continue to process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u366	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Ms Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u367	With regard to the companies we are talking about, the draft law on companies investing in real estate leases introduces a solution that has been known on the world market since 1969. The Minister pointed out that these are REIT companies. This market in the world is estimated at $1,700 billion. This company has a special status. It is intended to be a tool for investing in the real estate market and making commercial real estate rentals in the real estate market. An important feature for investors is the fact that such entities may, as you state in your questions, benefit from preferential tax rates. As a result, this will lead to the exclusion of the double taxation mechanism to a large extent. For investors this is intended to mean in practice, but we will see in the course of the work, the retention in the portfolio of higher dividends in a given financial year. We point out that the State pointed out, as regards the success of REIT companies in Europe, that this is a tool to be useful to support small, smaller individual investors. This bill is therefore intended to increase the capacity in the real estate market, mainly in the case of building apartments for rent. In this respect, the law and these companies have two objectives: to increase the attractiveness of taking up and conducting business in the commercial real estate sector for rental, and to increase the involvement of domestic capital in the commercial real estate market for rental. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 and 4 of the project are set out in very detail what conditions must be met jointly by the real estate rental company, as well as by a subsidiary that can be created to carry out this activity. I will not describe the conditions that the real estate rental company should have, because this is how it will be written in Polish law. What benefits would it bring? Increase the attractiveness of taking up and operating in the commercial real estate market for rent. The advantage for a real estate rental company is primarily preferential taxation, but if there is a determination and discussion on this subject... Unfortunately, in your statement of reasons, you write that this exemption is small. In questions I will indicate this condition. For shareholders, the obligation to pay dividends of not less than 90% by the company is important profit in the last financial year plus unallocated profits from previous years. In proposing this solution for reinvesting funds in the real estate rental market by these subsidiaries, the requirements for the core business are set out. We think it's worth talking about this project. It is also worth examining in detail what is indicated in the explanatory memorandum to this project, how the principle of avoiding double taxation will be developed and how the effective rate of CIT will be calculated, because here, there is no such relief as you are talking about, unfortunately. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing this project to further work in committees or committees, if such are the findings of the High House. This is an interesting project. I hope there are companies that want to invest. At the outset, there is one general question: How did you assess, when you presented this project, how much capital will be involved in this and next year? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many apartments can be built for rent? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u368	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the government's draft law on companies investing in real estate rentals, print no.2855. The Act sets out the rules for the operation of companies investing in rents and subsidiaries. And to be honest, these solutions that are proposed are good for a few reasons. Firstly, they save the image of Law and Justice after a total failure of the program. It turned out that it was actually a misfire, nothing came out of it, and therefore these apartments in the real estate market are indeed missing. It's got its own good side. I believe that there are no apartments for rent in Poland at all, because the structure of employment in Poland has changed. People change their place of residence sometimes several times in life, and it would be good if these apartments for rent were as much as possible. For all this, companies that engage in this type of procedure will invest in good locations, because the proposal to move in + was very often about locations that were completely unusable and people were reluctant to use such solutions. Therefore, this seems reasonable. As far as tax matters are concerned, it is indeed a good thing that, according to this solution, the tax amount is basically the same as in the case of a flat rate, i.e. 8,5% for individuals who rent their apartment. So that it is reasonable and the principle of avoiding double taxation, so that no rental tax is collected first and then even dividend income tax, is actually as reasonable as possible. Because it actually is able to encourage. I will not hide that it would be good here to have such an offer on the market, which will be an alternative to sometimes very risky institutions and debt securities. We have an example of GetBack, when people sometimes lost their whole life's work, and they were hoping that for the old years they would have additional resources for it. So this is a good solution just for people who want to invest some money to make some extra profits later. So that these are the issues that I think are reasonable. This is where the Minister said they'd be stock companies. Indeed, they will be serious companies, because if the share capital is 50 million PLN, it must be admitted that this guarantees to some extent that it will be a really serious company that will engage in this. The solution for subsidiaries may also be good, because such a general company may have branches in different cities, and so it can actually be arranged in such a way that subsidiaries operate in different cities. But I will say this: Here there is no requirement that these are equity companies that will be listed on the stock exchange. I didn't see it as a requirement that it was just a stock company listed on the stock exchange, because there are stock companies that have shareholders who don't even want the company to operate on the Stock Exchange. I don't think that's gonna be a requirement here, and that's good, because not all of these companies want to land on the stock market. But there's one thing that bothers me. Have you foreseen how local governments will be able to function in this regard? Because in the countries of western Europe, especially Austria, Vienna, there are a lot, most of the apartments for rent are municipal premises. And now the question is: Can the local government participate in the implementation of this law? Can he set up a company that can benefit from exactly what you are proposing? I believe that this is an important question, because so far local governments have invested in communal housing, and now, on such an opportunity, they may recognize that this is also a good solution, because tax preferences can be beneficial to them. General question: Did you predict the functioning within the framework of the implementation of this law of local authorities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u370	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u371	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on companies investing in real estate rentals, in other words, housing. I think it's a good project. I would disagree with the fact that this is a replacement of the We will support this solution, although here I will refer to my predecessor and agree with him, because today, for example. in the city of Rzeszów, the city office invests much cheaper in apartments than would be the case with the solutions contained in the law and these proposals. There is still a war there about why it is not built there as part of the implementation of the Living+ programme. It is simply cheaper to build the city than it would cost and later than the user's fee. We will support this project. This is a new solution, although I do not think there will be a breakthrough in this area overnight. This project should be examined and we will be working intensively on it at further stages within the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u372	Thank you, sir. Are any of your messengers and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] Madam, you are enlisted in the question. [[Good.]] Therefore, I am asking this question not to you, but to the additional people who would like to be on the list. If there are no additional reports, I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform, to ask her first question. Time: 1.5 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u373	As my previous speakers pointed out, Mr Meysztowicz and Mr Kasprzak, the state has so far been clinging to the fact that housing+ is a solution for housing for rent and will build it for you. You were against borrowing and building private investors. The first question is, why did you change... Or what were the reasons for changing this decision and preparing this project? Second question, on rates and tax avoidance. I quote from the justification which is included in the project: It is noted that the potential reduction in CIT income due to the designed 8.5 percent rate of this tax - currently the rate is 19% and 15% for small taxpayers - it will be eliminated due to the extension of the proposed scope of taxation. The tax base for income tax will not be reduced by depreciation on residential property and consequently - please note - the effective CIT rate will be 17%. So I kindly ask the Minister to explain this charm: 8,5% is the CIT rate, and in your explanatory statement you write that there are two rates - 19% and 9%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You enter, calculate and indicate that the effective CIT rate will be 17%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u374	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask if special solutions for companies investing in real estate rentals are only applicable to the housing+ program. You guys are screwing up this show, it's a total disaster. You take the next step and pass another bill after KZN, which turned out to be a failure, i.e. Bill on rent payments, lex developer. Indeed, Minister, in 16 countries there is a program of special facilities for apartment rental companies, but there is no record that you have introduced in the National Property Resource regarding institutional leases, which condemns people to possible homelessness. And that's why you want to live with the developer's daughter. She's signing a contract with BGK and she's gonna be receiving rent payments... In this connection, you are creating on this occasion a housing + and you will boast that with the hands of the investor, the developer you have built a housing+. This isn't how it was supposed to be, and please don't keep fooling the residents, don't fool people. They were supposed to be cheap apartments, and they're much more expensive than in the open market. There were supposed to be flats forever, and it could end up being homeless, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause after 15 years, the people in those apartments you're gonna be paying in rent, they're gonna lose that payment. And then what? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u376	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will ask another question at this point in the meeting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this law has some gaps and I was just pointing out the issue of the involvement of local governments, but this is not the only issue that raises some doubts, because the Ministry of Finance wanted to lead to the situation that people who so far accounted for themselves in the form of a lump sum of 8,5% for rent, but this lease was short-term... He wants this type of rental to be considered an economic activity. And the question is, what if the company that will operate on the basis of this law will also build facilities that will be rental facilities but short-term? Will she therefore be able to benefit from the rules that you have put forward, or will she not be able to use them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u378	The last question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Małecki from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm a little surprised to hear from my previous speakers that they're so critical of living and living. Talk to those people who have received these apartments any minute now. [[They gave away the keys.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I did not disturb you. Just tone it down, really. I have a question about this bill. Minister, is there such a risk that a company that wants to invest in apartments, in housing resources... Are there any obstacles for her to invest in investments or commercial housing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u380	Thank you. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała for an answer to this question and to previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u381	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer your questions about this bill. Maybe we can explain what we're predicting, how this bill will work. First of all, the Act gives some tax advantages, which is a lower rate when income comes from rentals. It's gotta be 90%. income from the rental of apartments. There's no way to get this status if you invest in commercial property. We did not want to give such a favourable tax solution to companies that invest in commercial real estate from the very beginning. Now, here's the question of the stakes here. I said the nominal rate is 8,5%. Whereas, given that depreciation costs will not cost income, the effective rate will be higher, it will be around 17%. I said it, and I'm supporting it. It's not like we give 8.5%. And it'll always be 8,5%. This may happen if investment costs and rent revenues are arranged so that this rate will be effectively lower, but it is in very specific circumstances. In general, we predict that this effective rate will be approx. 17%. The main advantage of this law is that the investor who invests in a real estate company is confident that he will receive a dividend and that dividend will be taxed once. This means that the tax will be subject not to dividends, but to operating income from rentals - once, without tax on dividends. The first question raised during the debate was whether or not we were predicting how much capital would be invested and how much housing would be built. I will admit that we do not have such data, because, as far as our market is concerned, we do not have the experience or the possibility of predicting what amounts investors are willing to spend on investing in the rental of a particular product, which is an apartment for rent. It is therefore difficult to calculate how many apartments will be available on the market that can be used. The question about local governments is whether local governments can set up such a company. The real estate company is, as I put it, a stock exchange company. In the Act there is a requirement that a company, i.e. a company investing in a real estate lease, must have its shares admitted to trading on the official listing market. In practice, this means above all listing on the stock exchange. Can the local government buy shares of such a company? Maybe. Can it affect its functioning? Maybe if he has the right voting rights to influence such a company. Can such a company be established e.g. by a few local governments who want to join forces to rent apartments in their own territory? It could happen, yeah. I would also like to clarify that we did not anticipate in this law - and it is actually impossible - that this company investing in real estate rentals should be engaged in development activities. She's not gonna build houses. This company will only finance the acquisition of apartments for rent. It's so much... [[Right.]] ...and only in the sense that we specifically did not want such companies to be subject to development risk, because the development risk means a much larger market margin, but this is a higher risk. This is the risk associated with the fact that you need to build a house well, there are various risks associated with improvements, building defects. [[The developer will create himself.]] Yes, the developer will have to do it, only the developer, although it is a risk, has a different margin and its risk premium is different. We wanted to create an opportunity to invest in apartment rentals that would be safe for investors. And this bill is written at this angle. I do not fully understand the question as to what are the reasons for the change in the move-in decision. In fact, it fits in with the apartment + in the sense that there will be companies that will invest in the rental. The question was whether this lease would be long-term or short-term. It doesn't matter. The point is, it's a real estate lease. It can be short-term, it can be long-term - as this company will establish. [[But the surcharge is 15 years.]] She must have a certain ceiling on her rental income. In general, if you have a business, which is that mostly we have only residential property, then our income comes from the lease. We've been predicting something like 70% in there. these properties This must be real estate for residential purposes. This does not exclude investment in other premises, but only this rental is taxed preferentially, that is, the stream of money that comes from renting apartments, that is, the one that will be taxed according to these rules. [[And if it becomes commercial after 10 years, will it be sold?]] We're predicting that a real estate company can sell the real estate it's invested in. [[After what?]] There is no time limit here, but the point is that it must maintain a certain ceiling on rental revenues. She can sell her own property. Sales of this property will not be subject to this tax regime 8,5% only will be taxed as a normal profit for the disposal of fixed assets. So it's going to be something that we call capital gain tax in jargon. It will be capital gains, i.e. profit from the disposal of fixed assets. And this profit for the disposal of fixed assets will be taxed at a normal rate of 19 percent. There will be costs I have incurred to acquire the property, after a while I will sell this property. Sales price minus acquisition costs - to tax 19%. I hope I've answered all the questions. I'll also tell you if there's a risk that China will invest in other things than housing. They will not be, because this law is so written that it sets a ceiling for rental revenue and assumes this safe path of payment of the lease dividend to the investor. According to the provisions of this Law and the parameters contained therein, it will be impossible to benefit from the fact that it is investing in commercial real estate. So that the law strongly supports only the rental of residential property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u382	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on companies investing in real estate rentals, contained in print No.2855, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I declare the meeting adjourned until 3 p.m. 9:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 43 hours 21 min 18]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska (prints No. 2850 and 2870). I ask the representative of the applicants, Ms Ursula Augustyn, to provide the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u383	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Membership! Minister, if reforms are being introduced, there should be a well-thought-out plan, listening to the views of the environments concerned, predicting the effects, assessing the effects on an ongoing basis in order to be able to react if something goes wrong. School needs continuous development and improvement of educational outcomes, and since you have been in charge for 3 years and have passed the first year since you decided to fix the system, it is time for a summary. So let's take a look at your success. Well, the first year of your reform only started because you burdened the local authorities with it. For many years, local governments took care of their schools. They built six-grade elementary school and three-year middle school. But Minister Zalewska thought that she could fit eight years in a 6-grade school. Can we do that? Yeah, I can do that. Except the kids learn in libraries, cafes, auls, and gym back in the hallway. We know this because these are signals sent by parents from all over Poland. These are the alarms from my parents. Two shifts have increased considerably. She showed up where she wasn't. Today the little ones go to the first classes in the old junior high buildings, where they quickly had to lower the toilets and buy low benches. And students of the 7th and 8th classes can develop sporty by sliding down from the slide on playgrounds by the elementary schools. Bravo! I think it's improved the comfort of science. And this is the success of the Minister, an absolute success. On September 3rd, so a few days ago, in an interview with Polsat News, you said that local governments had enough money for education - you basically denied yourself because at first you said that it would be cost-free reform. You forced the local government to spend money in vain. Plus, despite your repeated assurances... The Ministry was supposed to return the investment. And when we ask local governments, local governments say you only returned about 10%. the amounts invested. So something here, Minister, isn't playing. But this is not the end of the financial problems of local governments, because as he calculated the Association of Polish Cities, only to pay increases in 2018 the local governments ran out of 600 million PLN. Do you think that's a success? Question. We've got another problem ahead of us. Since the beginning of the deformities, parents and self-governments have been careful to avoid the effects of double-year school attendance. Cumulation will affect the current pupils of the 3rd grade and the pupils of the 8th grade of the extended elementary school. In this group - and this is very important - there are also tens of thousands of children who went to school as six-year-olds. It means that next year, in the first year of high school classes, they will meet 14o - 15- and 16-year-olds. And it's not 350,000, it's 726,000. children. [[Applause]] Do you see the problem? You don't see the problem and your friends don't see it either. I would like to quote the statement of the presidential candidate of Poznań from Mr. Tadeusz Gain's PiS list. I quote: Best schools aren't made of rubber. Students and parents are gonna be frustrated, but it's gonna raise school levels because they're gonna get the best of the best. That is the price of education reform. End of quote. Honestly and dramatically. [[Scandalous.]] But the Minister doesn't see the problem. So I want to ask, what was it for? Why ruin something that worked well? Who gave you the right to waste our children's lives? [[Applause]] [[Sovereign.]] Speaking of which, Life's chances. A few days ago, you were a minister at school or kindergarten, but I'm sure the little ones and the little ones asked you a very nice question, which you dreamed of when you were a child, who you wanted to be. You honestly told them that you wanted to be a ballerina. I'm just gonna be honest: you had to go in that direction, you had to go in that direction. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's not good for us to waste our chances. You don't listen to your parents' warnings... [[Same success.]] ...blaming you for the mess you're throwing at local governments and school heads. Nor do you hear the voice of parents whose disabled children are excluded from schools. The regulation you issued last year had an annual vacathio legis, so we're in trouble. And excluded students are those who, due to their dysfunctions, require individual classes only in some lessons, other lessons can be spent together with their peers. Now the recipe you gave says that individual teaching can only be done at home. There is a mention in the regulations of the individualized path, but not every parent - burdened with enough problems for having a disabled child - knows that he has to fight for it all himself. You sentenced him to it. In the old days, he could choose whether he wanted education for his child at home or at school. He has to do it at home today. What is the scale of this problem? Only 145 children disappeared from school last year in Łódź. In Warsaw, the problem concerns several thousand children. It is therefore a huge group of children and young people who have been given a chance to socialise, develop and start out on an individual basis. And that's another thanks to you, another success. The petition that parents are signing has already been signed by $100,000. persons. Congratulations, Minister, really congratulations. The whole separate chapter, ladies and gentlemen, in the latest history of the school, could be devoted to the situation of pupils in Class VII. The Ombudsman also drew attention to this and commissioned a study of this group. It was supervised by a team of experts in the field of pedagogy. The main groups of the school community, i.e. class VII students, teachers, parents, and school heads, were asked for opinions. The results of the study are terrifying, and I will quote them to be true: Science overload due to the shortening of the time to master the material compared to those of the middle school students has negative psychophysical effects. Students and their parents point to the uncertainty of the future of children, as well as fatigue and lack of time for out-of-school activities. Children sleep less, give up activities that develop their interests and passions. But, Minister, how can we be surprised if the students, for example? Class VII has 38 lesson hours per week, and in arts and sports schools, up to 42, which is more than an adult's job. Plus, there's homework and a few, several hours a week they have to spend doing their homework. And don't tell me, as you said yesterday at the school board meeting, that it's always been because it's not true. No one's ever thought of a three-year program in two years. But you're here. Congratulations. Congratulations. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] I'm deeply concerned. I wanted to ask you if you think that... These students, these kids, they're two years old today, and they're gonna be next. Are they grateful to you for the fate you have given them, and what do your parents think about you? And what did you do with the teachers? Here's the balance sheet. During the course of the year, 6,500 people left for forced retirement. persons. You spent 50 million zlotys on it from the state budget. [[Voice from the room: Do not argue.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet down there!]] [[Anti-Semita!]] 2700 people have chosen compensatory benefits. You spend 120 million on this. I quote the Minister: 100,000. works part-time. You told the Minister at the committee meeting that teachers had also been fired in previous years. Please add honestly that in previous years more than 1 million students have been missing from the system because of the low-level system. That's not what you're saying anymore, but that's fine. On the other hand, you are talking about the creation of an additional 18,000. employment. Yes, additional jobs were created: in kindergartens, because six-year-olds were detained there. As a result, more than 12 thousand were created. Kindergarten. Thank you for being there, but you're holding six-year-olds down there, that's not good. I'm just saying, what does it matter about the physics that's been working in middle school so far, he lost his job, even though he had a full-time job there, and he's offered two or three hours in six elementary schools. Physicist dropped out of school, works in industry. Plus, they pay him better there. [[Voice from the room: It's always been like this.]] This is another success for you. Teachers abandon their profession in mass because they want to work honestly and honestly and fairly to earn. [[Applause]] [[Decide if jobs are missing...]] This escape is your success, too. Another success of yours is a new category on a unique scale, a category of wandering teacher. This is not a problem only those who have to travel kilometers from one school to another, they have to do it, they have to move around. between three, four or five schools, but also the directors, who now have to put together a lesson plan and do so. It's so that the kids can study for a few hours a day. This is really the world championship, congratulations. You've improved the quality of the teachers' work. I mentioned this program, in which Minister 3 September participated in Polsata, and I will give another quote from this program, a quote from you. The teacher is a mission and a service. But, of course, it must be perfectly rewarded, so for the first time since 2012, we have been raising so much. [[A voice from the room: True!]] How many lies and lies are there in this sentence, Member. It's hard to describe. [[You froze your pay.]] But I'm gonna tell you because you forgot to add that for five of eight years, we've been raising teachers' wages by 50%, and that's in crisis. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And then you stopped.]] You also forgot to tell me that those big raises that you promise your teachers are, on average, 100 zlotys per person. The P.O.P. representative was thundering on the committee yesterday, there are limits to decency. Minister, you're telling the public you're giving me $1,000. zł raises. One hundred in one year, one hundred in the other, one hundred in the third - one thousand. Evil doesn't work out. I don't know how to count, it just doesn't work out. [[Applause]] In addition, you are introducing new criteria for evaluating the work of a teacher. A bunch of indicators and exams. You're gonna be checking out which of the teachers organizes integration evenings with your parents, because maybe then you'll get the 500+ promise, but you don't know what time it is. You've also announced that you're canceling two hours of credit cards. Then ask the teachers how many hours they work at the volunteer service today. Not even 12. So what's it like with the two decommissioned and the 12 called? [[Voice from the room: Within 40 hours of work.]] Even the teachers' unionists came before MEN with a red card for Minister Zalewska. The teacher's head of solidarity Mr. Richard Prox said: We criticize the changes made, although we were their hot supporters. The Minister's reward for this extended our professional promotion, lowered our wages, invented another degree of promotion. It seems that the teacher will be a whole life uneducated and the worst paid employee in Poland. Success, Minister. Absolute success. [[Applause]] Turn allies from each other and lead them to the street. Bravo, that's what we really treat in terms of success. There is also quite a fresh initiative of the Minister: national day of the bag. The weighing of the bags is brilliant. In February, the Minister said there was no problem with heavy bags. Yesterday, you said a quote that a heavy bag was a student's mess or a parent's oversight. The chief health inspector, Mr. Jarosław Pinkas, who said 16,000. GIS employees are involved in ensuring that Polish students' bags meet the criteria set out in the Regulation. The minister says he can handle this problem, 'cause it's one and a half. We'll be able to move textbooks to e-Resources for a year. So the question is, where are the e-handbooks that were on the table in 2015 when the Minister entered the MEN? Where are they? The minister saved them, and you saved them so much that after three years, they were gone. [[Applause]] You could use them, couldn't you? Well, if they are, you can use them. So what are you gonna do in a year and a half? The torpedoes were weighing on Bemów because that's where the kids were ordered to only wrap their notebooks. It's being told by parents to journalists, but they're asking for anonymity because they're afraid of reacting. Whose response may parents be afraid of? Curators. Because this is another of the questionable successes of Minister Zalewska. [[Voice from the room: Mr. and Mrs. PiS.]] Curators, who interfere in the life of schools on an unprecedented scale in free Poland, politicize them, exert pressure on teachers. [[That's a lie again.]] Numerous cases sent to schools of control after teachers express their views or show solidarity with protesters against change. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Lying, lying.]] Intimidation of teachers. This is an unacceptable situation. This is a reduction of human rights in a democratic country. [[Applause]] And that's not a lie. I'm gonna prove it to you. You speak so beautifully of patriotism. Often, on the lips of the Minister, on the lips of her friends and colleagues in PiS is the word: patriotism. But you're wrong about patriotism and nationalism, about indoctrination. [[Applause]] That's a tough word. So remember, patriotism is different. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] I want to give you an example because you say it's a lie. Barbara Nowak's curator from Krakow at the beginning of the school year speaks of King Jan III Sobieski, the school's patronage. The patron saint of your school is a great king who could protect all of Europe from Islam. You have to follow his example. So they're taking an example. [[Bravo!]] You've got a lot to be happy about. The exclusion begins, the persecution of the children of foreigners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[He lost the trial.]] Even adults, I see, can. [[Voice from the room: True.]] In the trams, but I can see they like it in the Seym Hall, too. Explain to the foreigners that they're not at home. [[Applause]] [[And the Prime Minister, what is he happy about?]] Shame and scandal, ladies and gentlemen. Shame and scandal. You know that, and you're not doing anything. [[We will protect Europe from Islamists.]] And it's on your tab. Minister! The balance of accomplishments is poor. The Civic Platform will make the student go to school without a briefcase. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And with an Islamist under the arm.]] Your briefcase should be lost immediately. School needs peace, not crazy ideas. I ask you to express a vote of distrust to you as Minister of Education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u384	I will now ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present the opinion of the committee. [[The loudest is the one who gets sentencing for hiking on the Internet.]] [[On tapes it's only Trzaskowski.]] [[I wonder what Donald said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the opinion of this committee on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 6 September 2018, the Civic Platform Group requested a vote of distrust towards the Minister. [[Long live!]] I think, a little culture, a little tact, young man. It'd be fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u386	Don't count on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u387	I know it's impossible to achieve that. [[But what is it?]] [[Voice from the room: Modern culture.]] Mr. Marshal of the Sejm sent a motion to the committee on 25 September for an opinion. Yesterday, 1 October, a meeting of the Education, Science and Youth Committee was held for this purpose. As today, it can be said in quotes, very elegantly, without emotion, in the very parliamentary language of Mrs Urszula Augustyn, she put forward accusations against the Minister. Of course, after Ms Urszula Augustyn's speech, the Minister is calmly [[Joy in the Chamber]] - who was at the committee meeting, he saw it, and the defendant referred to those allegations. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Kaczyński? What's the matter with you?]] Then there was a discussion. Parliamentarians spoke... [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] ...on this proposal and justification. Of course, it can be said that emotions have sometimes been taken over by some Members - just as here is the site that behaves like this: it cannot listen, it cannot hear what the Minister presented. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This mimic, these gestures, Mr.]] Later, trade union representatives and parents spoke. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the committee has examined the motion... [[Emotions are growing.]] ...and, as a result of this examination, has given a negative opinion on the request of Members of the Civic Platform. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I direct... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We will shoot at foreigners.]] ...a request to the High House to respect the opinion of the committee and reject the request of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What did the parents say?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u388	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Only the Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice. [[Big mistake.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! When we listened to this proposal in the committee yesterday, it was difficult even to find the author, because I think he was ashamed to admit, there are so many manipulations, misfortunes, misrepresentations or even lies. We were wondering whether the light had gone out in the shadows' office or whether you had decided to follow the voice of one of the greatest manipulators in history, trying to... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Oh, what jokes.]] ...to use the method that lies repeated repeatedly by some will be treated as truth. [[From my own backyard...]] Another... But it was clear that the state... [[Voice from the room: Matthew the liar.]] [[Over there to your friends, please.]] ...submitting and supporting the proposal and Law and Justice have a completely different vision of education in Poland. You didn't see that, for example, university teachers pointed out that high school in this old system was a 1.5-year course preparing for Matura, that general education ended after the first grade of high school, that parents protested that their children couldn't normally learn in these schools, that there were protest hungers against the fact that you restricted history teaching and finished teaching history as a continuous lecture in the first class of general education. We tried to listen to these parents. This is why we have restored freedom of choice to parents so that they can decide whether a child aged 6 or 7 will go to school. You forced them to do this, and when two yearbooks appeared in a 6-year elementary school, double, you didn't see a problem with changeability at all. You're crying all of a sudden today. [[Applause]] [[Exactly, force it, yes. This is your freedom, liberalism by force. There was no choice.]] The representative of the parents' council at the committee meeting made it clear that Minister Zalewska is the first minister who not only talks about the need for parents at school, but also tries to implement and change the law so that the parent's council plays a greater role so that it has a self-account, so that it can have a greater impact on the choice of the principal or at least decide when the child goes to school. You were just talking about the parent being important. Today you are worried about whether you are happy that trade unions have demands, not all of which have been met by the Minister. You forget how often trade unions went out on the street while you guys were in charge, and you never listened to them once. The Minister spoke of this on the committee. Most of the union's demands, such as the withdrawal of the card hour, the increase of the probation officer's powers... [[Voice from the hall: And volunteering.]] ...unification of the number of teachers' hours has been achieved. [[Voice from the room: This is a lie.]] It is true that we in some cases have a slightly different opinion than trade unions. Sometimes the trade unions also have postulates that are contrary to the demands of local governments. [[But no one shot them.]] It's not always compatible. Hence, we must also consider their opinion. For this purpose, e.g. The Minister has led to the sealing of the grant system for non-public schools. You didn't see that hundreds of millions of zlotys leaked between their fingers and went to dishonest entrepreneurs who did business in private schools. You didn't see it. Finally, we managed to do it. [[Please read the bill we've introduced.]] You said you cared about schools, but it was in your day that several thousand schools were shut down. That's when you said there was nothing you could do. You're the ones who prevented the probation officer from stopping this trial. We changed that. Today, the probation officer can stop the school's liquidation. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Contrary to what you've been trying to say about how chaos is supposed to be after every stage of reform, today schools are functioning peacefully. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Until tonight.]] They function peacefully against your lies, which you try to repeat every once in a while. [[You gotta be kidding me.]] The change you were talking about came when you forced six-year-olds to go to school. At the time, you weren't worried that the little kids were studying until hours. 18 hours or more 19. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: There are in kindergartens.]] You didn't notice the problem at all. You didn't notice when the local authorities from the Platform were shutting down schools, in Warsaw over 20. And that's why, among other things. Today there is a problem with changeability in big cities. You didn't notice. [[Voice from the hall: A million children.]] Today you say that society is against reform. You do not consider that when a survey was conducted for your Minister of Education in 2012, he had 7% support. Poles. [[Today we are talking about Minister Zalewska.]] When a similar survey was conducted last year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister enjoyed almost five times the support of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u390	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u391	That is why we clearly say that this contradicted proposal cannot be accepted by the High House, and the reform we are implementing is in line with the needs of Poles and... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u392	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Shumilas will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You will calm down, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We had an example of the Polish school's treatment of the problem by PiS. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Law and Justice, instead of referring to the problems that are at the Polish school today, fantasizes about what was once. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Instead of solving what you have to solve today as a result of the mess that the Minister organized, you tell the public fairy tales and lies. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You were talking about raising in the election campaign. [[Voice from the hall: We're not in school.]] You guys were talking about raising. Prime Minister, Minister, raising is the most important thing. And what do we have today? What do we got today? How are you raising our children today? You teach children that to maintain power they can lie, manipulate, and cheat. [[Applause]] [[Where are the 2 million signatures?]] The Prime Minister of the Polish Government, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, uses a lie in the election campaign to win against the opposition. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It sets an example for young people that all tricks are allowed to gain power. [[An example of Sobieski you are ashamed of.]] The Minister of Education wants to convince the public that the bags are light as a feather. And what does he do? He weighs a bag full of textbooks, and a class-III kid says, "Mom, that's cheating." [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] That's how you teach Polish children. [[Applause]] Minister, you're part of this. Shame. Shame and shame. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Don't fantasize, Member.]] You say you listen to your parents. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You say you listen to your parents. Since the beginning of the school year, our parents have been alarmed: our children are over-educated, they have been in school longer than we have been at work, they have been learning in crowds and hugging for two or three shifts. What do they hear from the Minister? It's the heads of schools and local governments. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[The name of this school.]] I ask, Minister, who signed the regulations? [[Applause]] Who signed the laws forcing school heads to fit two more year olds in their buildings? Who signed this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] You don't listen only to the opponents of the reform, you don't even listen to yours, because the Elbanowski report means nothing to you anymore. The question is, how much did it cost? [[A voice from the hall: And we have none of our own, all of them are ours.]] Parents are afraid of double yearbooks. What do they hear from the Minister? They hear that it's the opposition that scares and that the students will fit in high school because they will take different exams and learn in separate classes. Minister, imagine a bus to take young people to a better future. You say that there will be twice as many students on this bus, because one will enter through the back door and the other will enter through the front door. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Madame, you do not understand what you are saying.]] The lady on the radio show says, "Nothing, the bus is made of rubber." [[But we don't drive in the trunks, Member.]] You're insulting your parents' intelligence. [[Applause]] You say there's work for teachers. Minister, I've looked into the work you're offering your teachers. Well, look at the side of the Małopolska education curator. It's a town called Strzyc. [[Voice from the room: Ratch, please don't twist.]] They need a chemist, attention, for one hour, and they need a biologist, attention, for one hour. Please see that when we say that there are teachers in Poland who have to go from school to school, that it interferes with school work, that teachers cannot raise because they are not employed in school, they only go between schools, the minister says: No, that is not true. [[Voice from the room: But where are they employed?]] Look at the offers your parole officers make. [[They are not ashamed of the Polish king at least.]] One more thing. The mentioned Małopolska. Education curator for his anti-Semitic entries has not been punished. The Minister only led to the fact that instead of signing Twitter as a Małopolska school curator, she signed with her name. But that doesn't change the fact that this lady [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's a parole officer, and she's supposed to follow... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Shumilas! There is no municipality in Małopolska like Strzyc. There's Ratch. We've got to get ready. [[Applause]] [[Ooh, bravo!]] I present the position of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome... [[You have to listen better! Wash your ears.]] No, you need to wash your own ears to hear, or ask Mrs. Shumilas to speak more clearly. I'd like to move on to the presentation of the position of the Kukiz Club15... [[That's what you had to start with.]] ...in view of the bill, the project, the proposal, the position... [[Voice from the hall: Speak more clearly!]] [[Voice from the room: Clearer!]] It is a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. You are not able to upset me because you yourselves are simply deprived of this balance. [[Applause]] High Seym! For reasons of Seym arithmetic, requests for dismissal of any member of the government are generally doomed to failure. Not because they're unwarranted, but because the PiS coalition defends its representatives like the proverbial lioness of the young, no matter what evil it does... [[Voice from the hall: What is this proverb?]] ...in a case which is a prerogative for a motion of mistrust. In the case of an appeal, Minister Anna Zalewska's argument is more political than substantive. Nevertheless, many members of our club believe that Minister Anna Zalewska, as the head of the Ministry of Child and Youth Education, makes many mistakes that can still be corrected. In our opinion, Minister Zalewska is burdened with many things. I'm just gonna name a few. This is primarily a lack of consistency in the educational vision of the Polish school. It is supposed to be loud about Polish national values, it is even included in the programme basis, but when it comes to verification of the views of the MEN in this respect, the Minister cannot take a clear position. An example of this is the Ministry's response to my interpellation, in which I raised the problem of reading in school libraries praising totalitarianism in the communist and Bander version. Minister Zalewska considered that she would not be doing this by mocking the argument that she would not use censorship. [[And the example? One example. For example!]] I introduced, sir, here an example of a library book in Bartoszyce talking about the Bander... [[One, I'm sure you remember.]] ...titled "Bander and I." I have more examples.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u396	Mr President, we are no longer on the committee. Continue your speech and don't discuss it with the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u397	Excuse me, Marshal. Another very serious issue concerns the recognition of competences, the qualification of teachers to teach school subjects. The Ministry did not seek to send to the curators or school heads an answer which it had given me in the interpellation on this matter - that the competence of teachers and their qualifications which had previously been recognised by various entities were still important. It left a decision to the school heads, and they're in fear and they're asking for an interpretation of the curatoria. These, on the other hand, proceed after being considered: one recognizes qualifications, one does not. Thus, they force educators to make expensive postgraduate studies. Another thing we criticize about Anna Zalewska, the Minister of National Education, is her attitude towards domestic education, the one implemented in Poland, as well as the one outside of Poland, for children of Polish emigrants. The Minister does not understand the nature and importance of this form of teaching. It represents a centralist view of the omnipotence of the state in terms of education and teaching. That's very bad. It is regrettable, however, that a false argument is trumped to the media regarding the motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Zalewska - for example, the number of teachers who had to leave work as a result of a reform introducing an 8-year primary school, a 4-year high school and an industry school. Yeah, there's gonna be layoffs, but it's just... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It would be good for you gentlemen to understand what I'm saying. Yes, it will, but it won't be two or three years from now. That's not what the applicants see. I don't know how they counted the fired ones, but not only do they lack teachers in schools, but they also have many employees working on more than one job. Indeed, a legitimate argument is the low salaries of teachers and the manipulation of the ministry relating to the demonstration that they are high. In conclusion, the Kukiz15 club is completely cut off from this political hucpa which is presented here, and therefore the decision to vote on [[♪ The bell ♪]] The vote of distrust leaves it to its members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u398	On behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! When a reform is proposed, a man should have a purpose. In the case of education reform, this could be the quality of teaching, it could be that schools could be more child-friendly, there could be greater autonomy of teachers, there could be studies of experts that show the need for change, there could be improvements in relation to the international situation, i.e. a comparison to what is happening in other schools and in other countries. Was any of these arguments taken into account in the case of the reform of Minister Zalewski? No. The only reason we hear it, not only from our lips, but from those who speak on behalf of the PiS, is because this is what the polls said, this is what the Poles wanted, so we promised. It didn't make any sense, but since it came out of the polls, that's how we did it. However, if we look at how this reform has been carried out, we can see that far is not well enough. Even in a CBOS study, for which my investigations are far-reaching, that they are false, especially when you add up sometimes to 101, 40% The respondents argue that the reform was badly carried out while only 29% claimed that it had been carried out well. Then I think we know clearly why Minister Zalewska should be called off. Among those who had any problems, i.e. they met with the school, this percentage is even greater, because as much as 72% claims that the reform has been carried out badly. I understand that those who are satisfied most often have neither children nor grandchildren nor anyone at school. What happened? First of all, the famous two-change and three-change. Such cases, that we had two shifts in education, have always occurred, but since the introduction of education reform, the problem has increased. Now very often children go to school early, before their parents go to work, and come back later than their parents return, because it turns out that first, seventh graders and eighth graders have up to 10 hours and additionally in two- and three-shift mode. Another question: overloaded programs. If you're trying to shove junior high in primary school, then we have the effect that the programs are overloaded. What's more, because there's a hole between sixth and seventh grade, this hole needs to be patched up somewhere. As the Minister said, her life is patched up. Unfortunately, life doesn't usually patch things up, and that usually means working harder for the students and sitting up late in the evening. The next thing you know, it's a rat race. This rat race is based on a very simple fact. If you want to shove two years in high school in one year, then all parents start pushing. They push the kids, they push the teachers because they want the kids to pass their eighth grade exams and their third grade. Of course you can say that these children go separately, but really, schools can increase the number of places in high school to one and a half times, but they can't double, because they just don't have that kind of space. Effect? Some children will be deprived of their dreams, and right now we have a rat race and overcharged housework. Another issue is the cost. The costs have been transferred to local governments. We all know that local governments paid for it, and they were also supposed to pay in the form of elections. Fortunately, local governments are working well, and in most cases, if anything worked out, it's because even though the local governments managed to get through the reform, you did everything you could to make sure they couldn't handle it. 8 years instead of 9 years of general education, the issue of not equalizing the chances of rural youth... Let me remind you that the previous reform was created mainly for young people living in the countryside. The idea was that after school in a small village, often with weaker teachers, the child could go to middle school, which was supposed to be better equipped, with better teachers, actually testify... [[It was supposed to be, but it wasn't.]] It was. This is also confirmed by the results concerning education, teacher level. We know that this had a chance to level the playing field, and the PISA studies showed that it was leveling out, because we had very good results when it came to the weakest and the best. What does that mean? This means that children have now been deprived of the possibility of equalizing opportunities. Another thing: What did another reform force? If there are no e-handbooks, how often do you remove the lockers, because there has to be room for the locker room, then the bags aren't lighter, they're heavier. And just like in the old days, lawns were painted when the minister approached, so now they're emptying their backpacks and their torsos so they're lighter so they can be weighed and it's positive. That means we're living in some kind of unreality or fiction. If we add to this the famous already flying teachers, i.e. those who have 1 hour or 2-3 hours in one school, they have no education anywhere and do not feel connected to any of the schools, because they have no chance to do so, and therefore they simply run away from the profession because they assume that it doesn't pay off, so there are no physicists, chemists or biologists, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, it's a barrel. The reform failed. [[Applause]] [[What a color.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u401	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, prints no. 2850 and 2870. [[Keep your voice down.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The revolution devours its own children. I'll let my speech begin with a quote. I quote: However, we have the impression that the Minister completely ignores our demands, but we have still formulated them during the PiS campaign. Their implementation was on the electoral agenda of this government. Who said that? Someone from the opposition? Well, it was said by Ryszard Prox, one of the active teachers' activists of Solidarity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Even the trade union, which did not hide behind the support of the PiS in recent elections, criticises Mrs Zalewska. For lack of dialogue, for electoral lies, perhaps also for the fact that she definitely deserved the ungrateful title of queen of the chaos of Polish education. For what is the reform that she and her party buddies had kneed last year? It's chaos. You'd say, "Didn't we say?" They warned the teachers, they warned the union from the N.B.P., so what? Nothing. Like peas against a wall. Now worry, parent, because there's going to be an accumulation of yearbooks, and I think your baby dwarves are going to teach, and that's in the woods, because there's going to be no school space either. Today it is on the shoulders of local governments, ladies and gentlemen, that the fight for a worthy student and teacher will fall, and the minister seems to be off. You can't see her in schools, and she doesn't care about union meetings either. What's his plan to solve the crisis? There is none, which is why the vote of distrust is the only right thing for her to do. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how much a teacher earns after college? [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] PLN 1700. Would either of you be able to live for it in Warsaw? I don't think so. Trade unionists are already protesting a flagrantly low salary increase for teachers, not taking into account economic growth and wage increases in other sectors, against extending the career promotion path, and the introduction of new labour assessment legislation. They demand, among others. changes in the system of remuneration and funding for education, as well as the introduction in Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2 of the Teacher's Charter, which would also prevent the introduction of free working hours. But the Minister doesn't give a damn, which is why teachers are quitting their jobs. In a moment, ladies and gentlemen, we will have, as some PiS activists say, a hecatomba in education, but no one will know that the word "hekatomba" does not exist, after all Minister Zalewska took care of the level of knowledge. By the way, the Minister will make sure he rewrites his story. Her textbooks may tell us that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński invented the wheel, and the first man in space was Prime Minister Morawiecki. Anything's possible. [[Applause]] High Izbo! A few days ago, before the Ministry of Education, teachers, parents, and local government members gathered together, signed a pact for education in which concrete solutions were found. Was the Minister with them? No, she only sent her spies to take pictures of those who gathered outside the building. Maybe she thought we'd be scared. But we're not afraid, Minister, we're gonna fix education after the PiS, because there's no better investment than education, that's an investment in the future. Mrs Zalewska does not guarantee this future for Polish students. The teachers have said this many times, and today the parents of the students are also beginning to talk about it... [[Voice from the hall: And the rural schools were built?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna let my speech end... [[Voice from the hall: In the countryside, how many schools did you eliminate?]] ...a well-known quote: "Such things will be common, as their youth hide. The words of Stanisław Staszic in the work "Remarks on the life of Jan Zamoyski" let this vote be followed. [[Voice from the hall: How many schools did you build?]] So that it is not as it is today, that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government says "one-and-a-half" instead of "one-and-a-half." We are in favour of recalling Anna Zalewska from her duties. In our opinion, her actions contribute not only to the chaos in the Polish school, but also to the reduction of teaching levels. I understand that PiS wants to fool society, but no one in Poland can fall for it anymore. The only person who should go to the proverbial school dumb bench is Mrs. Zalewska. You're offering weight in schools. Dear Minister, just because you weigh the textbooks does not mean that they will become lighter. This, ma'am, is a symbol of your rule. Minister, I am the father of three children, and I know the weight of this bag. [[Applause]] [[The Member shall forward the bag to the Minister of National Education, Ms Annie Zalewska]] Minister, I'm barely... [[Voice from the hall: But don't make a scene with the Sejm.]] This is basic school. Will the Minister face this burden? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But should I give it back?]] Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u402	Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the motion for a vote of distrust towards Ms Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words of diagnosis first. The predecessors of the current government gave Polish society, children, parents, teachers' community a school lost, a school which, first of all, ordered... a system of education which ordered parents to send children at the age of 6 to schools, which contributed to the great stress of many students. Secondly, the six-year-olds' exam, which, in my opinion, was unnecessary, only caused unnecessary emotions and confusion related to stress. Then the middle school, which - as my children rate, and I have three children who go to school - is a school that, you can say, has gone bankrupt. She went bankrupt in a way that lost her worth. Junior high school - I think it is common to be aware of Polish society, parents, also Members who have children who go to junior high school - this is a school where since the first class there have been some kind of lans, lans over age, over the age that these children had when they went to junior high - puberty, breaking certain boundaries connected with the beginning of a more mature life, which children should not take. Today the Polish school will be a coherent school, it will be one environment, from the 1st to the 8th grade, which will not only teach, but also raise, passing good, positive values. It's finally a high school, especially the high school you've funded as a three-year school - a short, accelerated course for high school. At the moment, after the full reform of education, which you propose or implement the Minister of National Education, the high school will be a school that will prepare students well and fully for an informed examination of maturity. My children - my daughter has already graduated from high school, my son goes to high school at the moment - are very positive about these changes, because they will allow in an unaccelerated way, [[Joy in the Chamber]] consciously prepare for the maturity test. This is finally the whole system of vocational education, professional education. I think it would be unfair and indecent to say that this is a bad program. So far, the main vocational schools have not introduced further yearbooks to the labour market, which would feed Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs. At the moment, these industry schools will cooperate, cooperate with companies that need qualified staff. There is a whole system that will allow Polish companies to employ at the training stage, children's education in these professional schools, those people who will choose the professions. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the education reform introduced by Minister Anna Zalewska by the Government of Law and Justice by the Government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is a very good reform. She gives us all the upbringing, the education of a young Pole. We must not look at what is happening in primary school, in secondary school and at a later stage of education. Our goal should be that the young man who is subject to education, upbringing, be as educated as possible, but also raised in good values, so that he is such a full man who comes out of school fully educated and fully formed. The model of education so far did not allow it. At the moment we have a great chance to fully match this model of education to the great program of reconstruction of the Polish state and the Polish economy within the framework of the strategy for responsible development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will vote against the cancellation of Minister Anna Zalewska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[On two hands, you can vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u404	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with my backpack. I've looked through it, sir. First, every second book is not a textbook, and some are textbooks to the fourth class based on the 2008 programming base. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] This isn't the third grade, there are no third grade notebooks. [[He doesn't even know.]] [[The voice from the room: What a father.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we were at school, I didn't weigh backpacks at all because it was the responsibility of the health department. It was done completely independently of me. But do you know what we've been doing? The children simply showed and taught - I will invite the Member to the third-grade class at the school I visited - including that they showed by means of ozozots, because already in the first grade of primary school we have the basis for programming, how to pack what is needed in the backpack. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all talking about learning. [[We're still learning.]] That is why October will be a month each year in which we will also remind our parents of this. And I would like to inform you that the children came with textbooks and showed which textbooks they leave at school, which they don't take to school at all. They also showed mascots that sometimes take away. I would like to inform you that in the case of 90% Local governments are lockers. [[That's not what my parents said.]] [[Seriously?]] Even if there are no lockers, the regulation, ladies and gentlemen, is absolute. He says, dear self-government, even if you don't have lockers, the principal and teachers know what to do to leave the textbooks. They can leave it anywhere. And I ask you very much, countries from the opposition, too, to see how we can do this. It's working. Enough, ladies and gentlemen, to talk to the tutor, to talk to the principal. I want to tell you that last year, the health department examined, because we were doing a conference, teaching, reminding, almost 8,5,000. schools. 99% It wasn't a problem, but of course we're worried about the 1%. That is why such an event only harms. He is not an education because children, ladies and gentlemen, in the first, second and third classes have a mandatory 20 hours, in class IV they have 24 hours, in class V and VI - 25 hours, in class VII - 32 hours, and in class VIII - 31 hours. Before the reform and after the reform... [[Don't lie to me, 35.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying, 35.]] I would like to remind you that the regulation is unambiguous. There are two types of schools, i.e. bilingual schools and sports schools. In sports schools, ladies and gentlemen, there are sometimes 10 lessons more, and in sports championships at 16. We haven't changed anything here. [[Voice from the hall: What about art schools?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I started out in an unusual way because he put his words to the speaker. Thank you very much, actually. Thank you, first of all, for the motion, because we can talk, we can complement, we can explain, and above all we can overthrow what is half-truth, false or simply manipulation. Most of your fellow Members intervened in the Ministry of Education on various matters, talking directly to me, to the secretary, to the undersecretary or to the directors, but none of these issues that you are talking about today has been addressed at all. We're really at school, really the probation officer is watching over the school. And now the facts, the numbers, the data. Ladies and gentlemen, what we've found is that we need to talk about it in order to see the scale of our actions. Ladies and gentlemen, a few thousand schools have been closed down. 27% junior high schools owned the study, 18% primary schools. Attention. After a big share of the digital school, 10% schools had broadband Internet. At the same time, canteens and dental offices were disappearing. Not much, Minister Boni invented, and you were very consistent in that, that there shouldn't be libraries in schools. [[Don't lie to me.]] Remember the famous yeasts and salt and sugar brought by children secretly to school. [[Don't be hysterical.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was. You were in the ministry, you should remember.]] Remember the hunger about the story that never came back from school, certainly from upper secondary school. More, ladies and gentlemen, card hours. The Member here said a 50% increase. We have calculated this by adding, as you have tried to add, ironising the increase that we have announced, which we have consistently implemented... It's 37%, really 25%, and if you add 2 hours to that, that's 10%. more, to work, we know what this actual raise was like during the Platform and PSL times. [[You treated teachers like serfs.]] At the same time, trade unions have disappeared from the system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But they're not here right now.]] They were no longer in the organizational sheets, nor were they actually in any of the documents in force at school. We had to remind you of that. [[Voice from the hall: Truth in the eyes of the circle.]] I'm going to talk about these rescued projects, the e-handbook, which, actually, it seemed, was impossible to do. We had two weeks to work together, which was a year's arrears. You want to discuss resources. Yes, there are several tens of thousands of them, but somewhere you have to recreate those tens of thousands. Therefore, thanks to the Prime Minister, we carry out civilizational projects, we bring the broadband Internet to every facility. [[It's a great work.]] [[Voice from the room: When? For what?]] [[What about the bus, Minister?]] Because after your digital innovations only in more than 400 schools whatever happened. We are talking about broadband Internet in every school, including industry and technical schools. That's what we'll talk about later. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, it's all about multimedia equipment. In each class there will be multimedia equipment, because to realize the basics of the program... Because, sir, we don't teach from textbooks. We're teaching from the software base. And we are just allocating PLN 50 million to prepare teachers to connect with the whole world with multimedia equipment and implement the software base. [[Voice from the room: When? When?]] And the rule that we are going to present, I hope, in a moment's time, also states that since 2020 no manual will be allowed to be used if it does not have a mapping on the media board. The textbooks stay because the kids will have them at home. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, broadband Internet, which means extra money... I forgot to say that by 2027, the Internet would be free. The principal won't have to beg his uncle to give him money to buy a subscription. Wideband Internet, multimedia boards in each class. Attention. Each school - and 320 million zlotys - will be available: physical, chemical. [[Applause]] Here we have excellent cooperation with Copernicus Science Centre. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are already after the decision on the big programme - said Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - Accessibility+. As many as 200 schools will participate in this project. There will be, we hope, Polish furniture, which will actually be adapted primarily to the requirements of children with special needs. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, instead of liquidating libraries in 2 years, we have allocated PLN 60 million to school libraries, with particular emphasis on the small schools that you have just closed down. [[Applause]] And they're 1/3 of the system. If we followed your path, these schools would just be gone. You'd limit access to education. [[That'd be good.]] Not only did we let the parole officer use the veto law, we gave him the veto right, but also, ladies and gentlemen, by 11%. We have increased subsidies for small schools to support local governments. [[Applause]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what has been done very quickly within 2.5 years. A six-year-old has already been referred here... I'd like to fill in some more information about this bill, which is what it's called. We didn't just give our parents freedom. 95% The parents decided that these children were learning in kindergarten. With pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, preschool teachers have taken out letters because there was such a sad joke. In your day, there were secret sets in schools. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying? What sets?]] Now a three-year-old, four-year-old, five-year-old and six-year-old learn in kindergarten. Pre-schooling, that's an ugly name, is almost 85%. And for the five-year-olds you're asking about, 92%. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have kept our word to the local authorities. For the first time in the history of six-year-olds in kindergarten have been covered by educational subsidies. It's PLN 1.6 billion for local governments, it's an extra subsidy year. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] At the same time, parents did not pay for six years old for the first time in history. It's just because we treat these kids like school kids because they learn there, but just like their parents want them to. You have not noticed, and you have forgotten, that in addition to strengthening the role of curators, also to conclusions. trade unions, we have also made changes that students are very pleased with. Firstly, they may appeal against the decision of the District Examination Board. There is arbitrage now and really settles the issues at issue when it comes to exams. But you didn't even think about a little thing like that baby in the 21st century when she's in her 21st century pants in her pocket or purse, she doesn't have to tediously prescribe an examination sheet, she just takes a picture. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working on an open courthouse on changes in education law all the time. We also announced at the open courthouse, 700 people, all media, 27 June 2016 in Toruń. We said there'd be a bill in September, a draft bill. Indeed, on the 16th we signed the bill and, attention, countries, the Ministry of Education, as before it was in Poland, together with the curators ran around Poland. Within 3 months we have held 1500 meetings with the curators to say: attention, attention, we write the bill, say what else needs to be changed in this law, so that after signing the law in January 2017 by the President of the Republic of Poland again to go to Poland and be with local governments, so that after preparing for them the draft resolution concerning the school network is where it is most difficult, because the local government had a temptation, which happened, among others. in Warsaw, so that there would be two shifts or one and a half in one school, and next to it, 500 meters away, the middle school would be extinguished, which would be prepared for sale. Where it went, of course, we blocked it everywhere. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Over 99% Local government officials, ladies and gentlemen, just made this network of schools with us. By the way, let's really talk about changeability here. Let us take this example, ladies and gentlemen, in Warsaw. It is really important to build schools here, and I have great satisfaction, because every candidate - every candidate - talks about building schools, building kindergartens and day care. [[It means they're missing them.]] Because in Warsaw, before, ladies and gentlemen, the curator had a veto, more than 20 schools were closed down. In Warsaw, where there will never be any demographics, where people gather to raise children here. But in Warsaw, folks, how the housing estate is planned for 100,000. residents, you will not see nursery, kindergarten or school in the zoning plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why you hear about these situations later that you need to rent rooms. [[Education policy Platform in practice.]] And literally one more sentence. We sealed subsidies for non-public institutions because local governments asked for it. Today we will present to you with great satisfaction a law written together with employers on sectoral and technical education. We also listen to critical voices and thank you for these critical voices, because they actually allow us to be humble all the time. For the sake of children, parents and teachers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u406	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Annie Zalewska really deserves a medal for what she did. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] First of all, I'm gonna start with these civilized, very important projects... [[Pinocchio's nose.]] ...which I'm sure all parents understand perfectly well and young people in schools also, from those big projects that are important for our economic development. Well, first of all, it's broadband Internet. The Minister thanked me, but she's the one who deserves a great thank you, because within... [[Polish thresholds.]] ...we will spend PLN 4 billion in the nearest 1 1⁄2 years... [[Voice from the room: One and a half!]] ...to connect all schools, all primary schools, all secondary schools... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: One and a half!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to broadband Internet. As in the digital economy, I don't have to explain it to you. This is of course very important. The second civilization project, which Minister Anna Zalewska is implementing, is a project of industry schools, technical schools, schools that are created, played by entrepreneurs. [[PRL pros.]] This is not a relic of the Polish People's Republic. That's what you call it. That's what the opposition calls it. [[PRL pros, that's right.]] This is an extremely important component of training needed by industry. That's why we're so successful in the economy today... [[You've cut these kids' school by a year.]] ...because attracted investments - and investors - are immediately correlated with industry schools, which is played by Minister Anna Zalewska. It's a very important educational and civil project. [[Applause]] But I'm gonna say yes. Prime Minister Tusk announced in 2007 an educational voucher, which was intended to be a solution, to help parents choose their children's classes well as part of the education process. [[Me, myself.]] So what happened? It's been eight years and there's no educational bonus. Meanwhile, in April we announced, Minister Anna Zalewska together with our government, a good start and after 5 months the expedition is implemented. [[Applause]] This is evidently the fulfillment of our promise, just as we have committed ourselves. With you - 8 years since the 2007 exposé, not done. In our case - 5 months and done. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is your anti-reliability. [[Applause]] But let's move on. [[I'd better not.]] We have, for example. continue with Prime Minister Tusk, 2007, who says:... [[Voice from the room: We'll apologize to the ladies' voice.]] ... Who knows better than their parents what is best for the disciple? About this he said, and soon thereafter, he took freedom, or freedom, from his parents in sending children from six or seven years of age. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] He cut two million signatures and... [[Prime Minister, a lie.]] ...without following any parent's will here, you have taken this opportunity. Minister Zalewska... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The conclusions were.]] ...has simply restored this freedom, restored this possibility - either since the age of six or since the age of seven. [[He never answered. Don't talk.]] [[Don't talk nonsense.]] But since you're screaming, I'm going to add another very sad taste to that. Well, many parents at our meetings tell us that this was to a large extent humiliation. [[What kind of meetings? That's where all the PiS activists are.]] Do you know why humiliation? Because tens of thousands of parents had to take a psychologist and prove that their children couldn't go to school... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] ...from the age of six because they wanted to send these children from the age of seven. [[Applause]] [[Why would you do that?]] And this is really something that you've given to tens of thousands of parents, tens of thousands of children. We talk about freedom so much. This is... [[Mrs Shumilas, there is nothing to be happy about.]] ...real freedom, we gave our parents that freedom: you can send from the age of six... [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] ...you've been able to send since you were seven. [[Applause]] Who gives more freedom here, us or them? [[Applause]] [[Us! Bravo!]] Well, of course we do. [[Who's they?]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it must also be emphasized that the great reform of middle school, which Minister Zalewska has done here, is something insanely necessary for... [[The liquidation, not the reform.]] ...strengthening the whole school. [[Decommissioning 7,000. schools.]] [[Good, and very good.]] This isn't liquidation. Here, too, it is worth noting something - I do not know why it is as if you are still ashamed of yourselves here - namely the closure of nearly a thousand schools and... [[Burn yourself!]] [[Voice from the room: Burn yourself!]] ..the departure of 40,000. teachers who have passed away in the days of your reign. [[Voice from the hall: A million children!]] How can this be explained, better called than folding Poland? [[Applause]] This is the roll-up of Poland. [[Exactly.]] Of course, you did the same thing when it comes to police stations, post offices, but in this case, you closed schools. Not much, Minister Shumilas wrote to our MEP... [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] ...Mr. Sławomir Klosowski, who asked why one of the schools, because you closed approx. $1,000. schools, it's closed, she said: [[A million children, Prime Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Now what?]] ...children can do their schooling duty abroad. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Berlin?]] And this is in this letter, which Minister Klosowski has kept as a souvenir to this day. Stupid girls are lying near the Czech border, probably meant they can learn... [[You're going to court again for lying.]] ...educate in the Czech Republic as well. But that's not the point. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] But let me tell you something that is most needed, and especially to those of you who come... [[You're a notorious liar.]] ...part of it and part of it down there...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u408	Mr. Groupinski, calm down. Calm down, or we're gonna take the consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u409	...from our great tree of solidarity, and I'll ask you, was the fact that the science of history actually ended in the first grade of high school okay? [[What are you saying?]] Was that okay? In fact, students learned a lot more about Egyptian pyramids because of this program, not another program... [[What are you saying?]] ...of Roman legions. It's very important, but much more important are... [[The voice from the hall: He's lying, no!]] ...modern times, World War II. Maybe you meant to... [[The whole high school was dedicated to it.]] ...have reached the highest time of the market, and they haven't moved on with their education? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Matthew!]] [[Shame!]] [[Bravo, it hurts!]] Well, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely grateful to Minister Zalewska for bringing back these lessons of history. [[Applause]] Minister, this is a big deal, this is the foundation of our culture. You can't pull out any more... [[You learned from Urban!]] ...history lessons, you have to add history lessons. Like withdrawing parts of the canon of our most famous readings... [[He learned lies from Urban.]] ...our news, which... [[You're ashamed.]] ...you had to read in your time in fragments. We bring back our great news, including Henryk Sienkiewicz, the whole Trilogy. Everything that was read in fragments, today to a much wider extent is to be absorbed by students, because this is the basis of Polishness... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...the basis of our culture, the basis of our entire future. How could you do that? [[You're a notorious liar.]] [[Gombrowicza, read it!]] [[Sit down!]] But I'm going to add a few other aspects to that. Well, we have a situation today that, as a result of the reform, we have accepted 18,000 into work. teachers. You scared us... [[Bravo!]] [[What are you saying?]] ...the opposition frightened the public that there would be great fired teachers. There weren't any layoffs like that. In your day there were about 40,000 redundancies, in our day we accepted 18,000. teachers. [[Where did you get this?]] And I want to thank Minister Zalewski especially for something else, Minister, that you did. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is the progressive sealing of the subsidy system. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly!]] Unfortunately, there was also money leaking out of the hole. It's so characteristic of your governments, because... [[Who's been stealing? Did the teachers steal? Teachers stole, right?]] ...in the case of VAT, they leaked tens of billions of zlotys, and in the case of subsidies they were at least hundreds of millions of zlotys. But one year after a year, the seal is getting better and better. This money is also being moved to... [[Who stole it? How about teachers?]] ...increases: first from 1 April this year, second from 1 January 2019... [[100 zł, Prime Minister, a hundred bucks.]] ...third since 1 January 2020, i.e. during the year and 9 months three increases. If you fold it percentage, it's over 15%. for raises. [[Applause]] [[May I?]] So it was possible thanks to the sealing, thanks to the policy that Minister Zalewska carried out. But I would like to add, last but not least, that what you are trying to do, you are trying to call off more and more members of our government -- a vote of distrust -- you are doing nothing, of course, because we are defending our ministers. [[Fist strength.]] But what you have done and what we are effectively calling off is your anti-family policy that we have cancelled. We've put in place a family-friendly policy. [[Applause]] [[Yes! Exactly!]] Your policy is to sell out national assets, sell out our national silvers, different businesses... [[Did we sell schools?]] We recolonize, buy these companies to the domain of the Polish state. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] Finally, your policy of polishing, condoning gigantic... [[You buy the shipyards.]] ...the biggest VAT spills in Poland's history. [[Do you hear yourself?]] I have a message for you here. This is very good news for Polish society. [[Voice from the room: It's recording!]] I think even you'll be pleased. Well, after September as a result of further sealing measures - this is the rage that is now raging our opponents, dear country [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] - went to the budget of PLN 15 billion, in one month only, due to VAT. [[Applause]] [[Brawooo!]] That tells me what happens when there's an honest host... [[It's time for your prizes.]] ...which can then develop broadband Internet, industry education, seal... [[There's no seal.]] ...Employ new teachers, introduce gradual increases. We'd like to move faster, too. [[You can award yourselves prizes.]] ...but, of course, we still have a deficit because, as a result of your governments, we have inherited a huge public debt. [[Voice from the room: It grows.]] The deficit in your reign was up to 8%... [[Voice from the room: How much bigger is it now?]] [[How much did you zoom in on it?]] ...and in our time of government, it's record low. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, Minister Annie Zalewska, for her great and hard work, for listening to the voice of the teachers, to the voice of her parents. [[Voice from the room: Parents, children.]] I took part in a few hours meeting with Minister Zalewska myself, with the trade union.Solidarity. [[Red card!]] [[Now they're all for it.]] How can you say from this stand that the Minister doesn't listen to voices? She listens, she gets into dialogue, she's really devoted to children, teachers, parents, and I'm glad to see that for the benefit of school... He's actually begging to quote this... [[And now children learn in lockers, basements. This is the good reform. They work more than adults. Thanks to Annie Zalewska.]] ...what you have quoted here: such things will be common, as young people hide. I totally agree with that. [[Applause]] Thanks to Annie Zalewska it will be much better hiding, education at the right, much better level and it will translate into the benefit of the Republic, our economy. Once again, thank you very much to Minister Annie Zalewska for her enormous effort to reform education. [[Flowers more!]] It will certainly be a very good change for the Polish education system and for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u410	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws (print No 2861). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I'm coming, I'm coming.]] Excuse me, the Minister will personally introduce you. Please, Minister Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As I have just announced, I hope that you will be very pleased for the coming months to work on the revision of the Education Law, which was written primarily with employers. We very often stress that education, especially professional and technical education, is included in the strategy of responsible development. Employers clearly indicated that the situation in industry and technical school must change, that it is to be at a sufficiently high level, but above all to respond to the economy, to respond to the needs of reality. In short, because I'm about to go into detail, it's going to be a school where the employer will be at school, and the young man - at the employer's, the exam will be a mandatory exam, but written together with the employer, the basics of the program will be written with the employers, and it will finally be practically, not theoretically. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you will read in the project, or you have already read that we are relying on the coherence of school offers with the needs of the regional and local labour market. We do not hide the fact that employers stress that there are now various kinds of research that simply need to be sorted out in order to respond properly quickly to changes in the labour market. Therefore, the Minister responsible for Education and Education will annually establish a forecast of the demand for employees in the professional education professions on the national and voivodship labour market. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we will modify the rules on the start-up of education in the profession, the condition that the Voivodeship Labour Market Council only consults on the validity of education in a given profession, issued according to market needs for 5 years, taking into account the forecasts of the Ministry of Education. We strengthen the cooperation of schools with employers competent for the profession through the obligation to conclude a contract or agreement before starting training in a particular profession. Finally, we are introducing the possibility of obtaining additional skills in vocational schools. As far as exams are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, they will not only be mandatory but also 70%. practical. This is very important because in January ub. You have led us to such a situation that we had to manage the crisis in industry education properly... [[In January, Ub. You were in charge.]] ... e.g. As far as the examination is concerned, because the schools have ceased to function, they have stopped working. [[You've been in charge for three years.]] The tasks or the task blocks were too narrow, the tasks were not enough. [[You were in charge.]] Unfortunately, it was the result of your decision. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing mandatory training for professional teachers in enterprises. That'll be 40 hours in three years, and we'll take care of level five at the police school, ladies and gentlemen. Polish Qualifications Framework, mainly in terms of medical and social professions. As far as the practical learning of the profession is concerned, in real working conditions and in cooperation with employers, I will give some examples, because there are, of course, more of them. First of all, we allow students to take an internship with their employer on the basis of a contract with their employer, which includes the period of employment. We raise the minimum remuneration for juveniles, for workers financed by the Labour Fund, for which the rates have remained unchanged since 1996. We increase the amount of funding for employers for the cost of youth education in the deficit profession based on the MEN forecast. We introduce tax preferences for employers who donate donations to public vocational education schools. Finally, we are introducing changes in the management of separate accounts by schools providing training in professions. Here I must thank the two ministries, the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of Finance very much, because this is real extra money for industry education, long awaited. For many years, it has been pointed out that they are necessary. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that we have managed to convince employers, and it is a common belief that they will also contribute to the education system, because it is not only 9 billion PLN in the system for industrial and technical education, 4 billion PLN in voivodeship seymikas, but also ready money, real money, not only companies of the Treasury, but also various entrepreneurs who want to financially support teachers. I would like to remind you that as part of the changes to the Teacher's Charter, we have caused the teacher in the trade school to have his salary freed, i.e. The employer, if he wants to have prepared employees, can contribute to this salary, which can actually take any amount. They are signed at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, various agreements with schools, but these are very financially effective agreements, because, as I said, these are machines, these are money for teachers, for students, this is full cooperation with entrepreneurs. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we will be training in the second-grade and post-school sectors without dividing into youth schools and adult schools. There will be a uniform teaching salary for teachers of practical training at 20 hours. Finally, what both employers and schools have asked for: we give schools the opportunity to conduct shorter courses so that they can respond flexibly and quickly to changes in the labour market. We are introducing a new type of vocational and continuing training facilities, vocational training centres. At the same time very bravely, because we have already taken the first step, we are counting the money, and we will not really allow these professions, which only and only result in unemployment with possible further courses at the employment office for the young man, to be financed as well as the professions. or training in occupations most expected in the labour market. That is why we are introducing a differentiation in the amount of education subsidies depending on the cost of training in particular professions. We've already taken the first step, and we're going to want to diversify it even more. We introduce increased amounts of education subsidies for highly recommended professions, according to the forecast of the demand for professional education workers. Finally, we introduce a differentiation of the amount of education subsidies in the case of professions considered to be unique. This is the effect, ladies and gentlemen, of 12 trade seminars where we met with a thousand employers. As I said, it is primarily a law written by employers to prepare young people to participate in industry 4.0. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and broadband Internet, and multimedia boards are necessary in industry schools and techniques, for example because it is where the textbooks have to be moved, and in addition, what the environment and employers expect, to be able to prepare various types of simulators, because a child who is in an industry school or a technician cannot yet in many cases and in many professions be directly in the workplace, because there are other regulations, such as: They make his practical activity dependent on the age of 18. I also want to tell you about what is very important, and I hope to have allies here. also in the opposition, namely the absolute promotion of professional education. I was, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday and last Saturday at a huge European event. This is an event that has been taking place for several years, representatives of Poland were there for the first time thanks to the Foundation for the Development of the Education System, but also because we are simply betting on promoting professional education. These are, in short, European competitions. We had eight brilliant young people there who went there not only to win distinctions, because it happened with our chef, but also, please, to find out that we, together with experts, judges, could learn how to prepare for the promotion of vocational education. You cannot imagine how emotional these are and how wise children are, how artistic they are. Various teams came with coaches, psychologists and were sponsored by various companies. We learned, we saw... We were proud of our young people, we were rooting for them. This was happening in Budapest, ladies and gentlemen, not only the students of all schools from Budapest came because this is a party that attracts about 100,000. young people, but they also came from all over Hungary. I was really proud to look at our young people, because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about revolution 4.0, it means that the technical school goes to kids with passion, ideas, talents. This is the place for them to be able to become independent, to be president of their own company after graduating from the industry school and to be able to continue to study because - I remind you: we have done this before - we have raised the professional exam to the rank of the subject chosen on the graduate level. So the young man who passes the professional exam, alongside the compulsory Polish language, mathematics and foreign language, has an open path to each university. This is a really long-awaited bill, and I hope that we will talk about it together, that we will implement this law together. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, we declare... We not only declare, but implement postulates, which also appear in a different area, apart from technical and professional education, because for him we have opened the Law of Education, we implement many of them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is very expected that Polonia and Poles living abroad will change. I remind you that there was such a trend proposed by the predecessors, by the foreign minister, that they wanted to close schools that are at consulates. They were only supposed to be funded by their parents. Not only did we stop this trend and strengthen these schools, but we heard at every meeting around the world: please change your name, because this - school at the consulate, so-called. espek - it is inexplicable, does not give the rank which the Polish school should have, and that is exactly what this school will be called, simply, simply: Polish school. Teachers and parents are very pleased about this. [[Applause]] At the same time, teachers teaching abroad were appreciated for the first time in history. We do not distinguish whether they are teachers teaching at the Polish school, i.e. at the school at the consulate or at the association school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each of them has the right to pursue a professional promotion, their work is counted in two ways, three times, we want them to be at the right level of professional promotion when returning to Poland. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are fulfilling union demands because when we discussed the assessment...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u412	Excuse me, Minister, do you need time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u413	...teachers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u414	But maybe I'll finish up, Minister. Do you need time to extend or can you fit in a minute?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u415	Thank you, three, four more minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u416	That's four minutes longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u418	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u419	At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the votes on the evaluation were rising. Firstly, we talk to schools, directors, we understand the concern of teachers, although trade unions have sought a uniform assessment, because the teacher is evaluated several times a year, according to undefined criteria. We have recognised these concerns, we want to learn together with teachers, we also want to learn, listen and monitor, and that is why this obligation has been extended, i.e. the evaluation will be mandatory every 5 years. We'll have a chance after this year to sum it up. If it turns out that something needs to be changed, we'll be happy to do it. And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there are some changes in the start of activities that aim to ensure that the child is properly taken care of at school, among others. dental care. There's a few records, you'll hear the details next week. Today, I am very happy to say that these are not just the records on the cafeteria in the Educational Law that we are proposing to you. Today, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Poland adopted a programme of food at school and at home. [[Applause]] We will support, invest in places where dusty rooms used to be in the cafeteria have to be recreated. It's gonna take us a while. 200 million PLN will be allocated for this. We will also transfer money to local governments and schools to support financially those children who will need it so that there is no difference in the cafeteria as to which child and why it is financed. We had a lot of bad examples when children were actually differentiated. Ladies and gentlemen, it was with great pleasure that I presented in a very short form a change in the Law of Education. We'll be with you for the next few months. We hope for good cooperation. Thank you in advance for her. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u420	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u421	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the government draft law amending the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws, print No 2861. Among the many challenges facing Poland at the end of the second decade of the 21st century, it seems extremely important to ensure good conditions for the development of modern economy. It will not be able to develop and be competitive without highly qualified staff who will get a good education at different educational levels. The fact that the current socio-economic situation shows how serious this problem is is is that companies are finding it increasingly difficult to find workers with appropriate qualifications and that, on the other hand, unemployment remains high among graduates of vocational schools and technicians. There are negative demographic changes that make the labour market more and more driven by school graduates. This will continue in the years to come. It is therefore necessary to adapt the vocational training system to the needs of the modern economy, as indicated by the government adopted in February 2017 by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, a strategy for responsible development and what Polish entrepreneurs expect. Today's draft law is essentially in line with these expectations. The aim of the changes is to rebuild the prestige of vocational training in Poland. This will be done through a number of projects, but it is particularly important that schools cooperate not only with host bodies but also with employers and ministers competent for particular professions. It is worth noting that the changes that have been made have a strong financial basis. The leading authorities will receive an increased education subsidy for pupils in schools in professions for which there is a higher demand for the labour market. They are indicated in the forecast of the demand for workers in the professional education professions defined by the Minister for National Education. A new criterion has also been introduced for the distribution of educational subsidies, consisting in the differentiation of the amounts to be fixed for pupils in the professions of professional education of particular importance for culture and national heritage. Employers expect school graduates to be equipped not only with theoretical knowledge, but also know the specifics of work in their companies. This will be possible thanks to the introduction of traineeships for first-cycle students who are not young workers and technicians. Internships will be carried out on the basis of contracts with employers. It is important that an incentive for employers is the possibility of including the cost of cash benefits that will be received by the student during his/her internship, in the cost of obtaining income. This record coincides with the demands of Polish entrepreneurs. High Izbo! Truism is to say that there is no good education without a good teacher. This is particularly true in the case of vocational training. And it is in the proposed bill that there are provisions that professional teachers will be able to systematically improve their workshop during compulsory internships organised by the school director, during which they will raise their skills and increase their knowledge of new technologies and the functioning of enterprises. In the course of a few minutes' speech, it is impossible to identify all the positive solutions proposed in the proposed vocational education project, so at the end I will refer only to the possibility for schools and institutions to collect in a separate income account obtained from their service activities. This is important because these funds will be used to improve the quality of school work. But it is not only the rules on vocational education that are included in this draft law. There is also a whole range of rules that meet the expectations of parents, students, leading bodies, meet the expectations of trade unionists. This is, for example, a free delivery and care of children, a great deal of legislation that will help prevent drug abuse. You will be able to better organize dental care, you will be able to organize children's nutrition. In recent years, our predecessors have often commissioned [[♪ The bell ♪]] bodies carrying out tasks without providing money. We will be able to secure this money in the draft of this law, they are defined. It all makes... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u423	...that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of referring this law to a substantive committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u424	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u425	Thank you very much, Marshal. I regret very much that the Prime Minister left us because the Prime Minister did not actually work, he did not work on the education committee and maybe he does not know exactly what vocational education was like in Poland after 2012. But Minister Zalewska, who also did not work on this committee in her previous term of office, should know this. On the other hand, I am sure that Minister Machalek, with whom I had the pleasure of working in the last term, knows this. That is why I will refer briefly to your statements in these records. Firstly, you say that the aim of the change is to address the lack of vocational training to the needs of the labour market, which creates difficulties for employers, but also for graduates of schools involved in finding a place of employment. Rapid development causes that there is a demand for other professions than a few years ago. We absolutely agree with that, and we don't argue with that. However, we have very serious reservations about the justification for the proposed amendment to the Education Law. We read, quote: The main purpose of the changes introduced by the proposed law is to rebuild the prestige of vocational training in Poland. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2012 decided to rebuild vocational education in Poland. This started in 2008 with a positive choice of professional school. I am here using the title of a project supporting systemic changes in vocational education and financed from European sources. Then from 2012 we talked about vocational school - attention - as a positive choice school. This was the case when after several years of lean vocational training gained a position in education policy. This is reflected in the Education System Act introduced on 1 September 2012. What is included in this Act? The provisions proposed there indicate that after-school apprenticeships are carried out by the various institutions listed here, but they are also carried out by employers with whom the professional training is carried out. You haven't introduced anything new. Your amendment is nothing new, perhaps beyond the name. This has been highlighted by the Trade Union Forum in its opinion on the project, in which, I quote, it says: So far we have used professional education, vocational training. Now you've changed it to industry education. New industry education is just a conceptual change. The Trade Union Forum believes so, and so many people believe. This change introduces only terminology confusion, it is only a PR procedure. They also add that the change in the name of a basic vocational school to a professional school did not result in an increase in the recruitment of pupils to such schools. The social partners also point out that the proposed amendment should take into account the fact that the curriculum for training in professions contains information on the equipment necessary to carry out training in the profession, and school heads say that they have financial problems that do not allow the purchase of this equipment, so this change should be reflected in the education subsidy. I would therefore like to ask whether there are resources for this, whether local government units will have to find them again in their budgets as in the case of education reform - most local governments have received a return from the state budget from 5 to 15% the costs incurred for it. You are also planning to increase the participation of employers in vocational training, including the practical training of the profession, by proposing funding up to 10 000. PLN in terms of education in deficit professions. This is important in the case of new professions related to industry, but in our opinion the amount of funding should be differentiated, otherwise cost-intensive is the education of new electronics and otherwise the hairdresser. We also believe that financial incentives for students who choose to study at the first level could increase the popularity of professional schools among young people. This form of encouragement, Minister, was adopted by the local government of Płock, who already pays PLN 100 per month to all students of the first and second classes of the industry school who do not miss lessons and regularly go to school. Perhaps the Ministry of National Education should introduce such scholarships, like the Płock government, perhaps there would be a better chance of encouraging young people to choose vocational education. I won't be able to refer to the other records. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will refer to them during the meetings of the Education Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u426	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The role of the opposition is to criticize, but not in the champ. It is important to look at the changes proposed in various types of legislation. I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government draft law amending the Education Law Act and the Law on the system of education and other laws. The project is intended not only to restore the prestige of vocational training in Poland, but mainly to improve its quality and efficiency - the effectiveness of education in schools and educational institutions that train graduates to perform specific professions. It aims to provide a framework for integrating all key vocational training partners into actions to systematically adapt this education to the needs of the labour market. Vocational training is the area of education which, alongside higher education, has the greatest impact on the preparation of modern staff for the Polish economy. According to this project, local authorities will receive a higher education subsidy for pupils in schools who are trained in professions for which there is a higher demand for the labour market. An important legislative solution is the introduction of a new criterion for the distribution of educational subsidies. It is about the diversity of the amounts fixed for vocational pupils in professional education professions of particular importance for culture and national heritage. Another interesting one, and the necessary change is to enable first-grade students and students of the school to pursue a student's internship on the basis of a contract with their employer. Participation in traineeships will enable the pupil to learn the profession in real working conditions and the employer will be able to know and prepare the potential employee accordingly. The costs of cash benefits that the student will receive during his/her internship will be included in the costs of obtaining income. This is certainly a positive change that motivates employers to train professional pupils. In order for the student to succeed, a well-prepared professional teacher is needed, perfecting himself systematically during compulsory professional traineeships. As a result of these trainings, teachers will improve their qualifications, competences and skills, increase their knowledge of new technologies and the functioning of businesses in the industry. Schools will also be able to adapt their education offer more flexibly to the needs of adult learners by introducing shorter forms of teaching. In accordance with the provisions of the project, schools and vocational training establishments will be able to carry out on a separate account income derived from the service activities carried out in the course of training in a particular profession. Changes in the sector education planned since the 2019-2020 school year are also focused on improving and increasing the efficiency of vocational examinations. They should, on the one hand, verify the quality of the training process and, on the other hand, provide a pass to success in the labour market. This project also strengthens the position of education curators who will be responsible for coordinating the organisation of theoretical education for young workers. In this way, they will be educated as closely as possible to their place of residence. It is also very easy for the municipality to organise free transport for children and young people with disabilities and to provide care during transport to secondary schools and vocational training centres in cases other than those indicated in the Education Law as mandatory. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u428	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Of course, the bill, which was presented to us, was presented at the last minute, because it only entered the Sejm on September 25th, today it is October 1st, October 2nd... It gives you little time to complete, full familiarization. On the other hand, of course, professional and professional teaching - because this is a semantic issue, as we will call it - is one of the most important from the point of view of the development of the economy. Especially in times where we have quite a strong job search by employers, there is a chance that this reform has a better chance of success, because we have a better chance of interest, for example. companies working with schools and dual learning. The dual learning system, i.e. the combination of work and education, is a target model in which pupils could be trained in vocational schools. The problem is... I have the impression that this law does not solve to the end, and it is difficult for any law to solve it at a time when, however, the system of remuneration for teachers is very similar - whether it is teachers of profession or other subjects... The problem is the lack of availability of teachers. Indeed, we often show examples that schools - whether professional or professional - have a problem with teachers in the future, especially in a situation where there is low unemployment and teachers can look for work outside the educational market. Of course, this bill needs to be worked on. We will also be involved in this work. I think the committee is a good place for us to work calmly on all the solutions it presents. Undoubtedly, vocational education or vocational training is a necessity in the absence of hands in most companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u430	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u431	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Education and the Law on the system of education and other laws, print No 2861. Ladies and gentlemen! The lifeline's thrown because the boat's sinking. In short, it is possible to define what is happening in the context of this very important bill. The revision of the Education Law at the same time as we deal with a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Education? It's ridiculous, isn't it? A few hundred pages of the bill thrown at the wrong guy? Why? To distract you from the Minister's incompetence? It's not like nobody's gonna buy this shit. Ladies and gentlemen! The law reads beautiful slogans: local governments will receive more money for education, and more money will also flow to professions of particular importance for culture and national heritage. The list of these professions will be established by the Minister of National Education in agreement with the Minister of Culture and National Heritage in the Notice. It's just gorgeous. But if we put it together with how PiS destroys self-government in Poland, no one will believe it. The Ministry of Education convinces: We focus on vocational schools, vocational training is the area of education which, alongside higher education, has the greatest impact on the preparation of modern staff for the Polish economy, and the lowest unemployment for years has contributed to staff deficits with appropriate qualifications. The new law is also intended to encourage employers to organise traineeships and apprenticeships directly at the workplace. It's all very beautiful, but who, if not present politicians of the PiS, before many years in other parties, put their hands to destroy vocational education? So? Today we're supposed to believe that you love vocational education? Bullshit. Ladies and gentlemen! It's all a verbite sound, but it's published by a fox, a sly fox, because if you look at how much money teachers make, you're going to say, "There's no good change." A good change may have been felt by PiS activists who have received warm jobs in companies of the Treasury, but teachers, ladies and gentlemen, certainly not. [[Oh...]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party will always stand in the position that it is necessary to increase the competence of local governments, only that we do not believe in this law. It could be such a zonk, such a mess, as was the case with free meds for seniors. The piss promised a lot, and it gave so much money to this program that only the chosen ones caught on it, and in fact some of it was enough for aspirin. High Izbo! You can't make jokes about a serious matter like education, and now governments are doing it notoriously. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Too bad it's not for the bill.]] I'm referring to the bill right now. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats despite many reservations will work on this law in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u432	Thank you very much. You have the voice of Margaret Mirror, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Education Law and the Law on the Education System and other laws. The proposed law concerns a good change in vocational education, which after years of destruction by the PO-PSL coalition will be rebuilt. The reconstruction of the prestige of vocational schools is primarily dictated by the needs of the labour market, which awaits specialists of high quality. Relevantly developing vocational education must be supported by all departments that will diagnose what professions are in deficit in their areas. Together with the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry will design the implementation of new fields of professional education. The government will also increase education grants to local governments for schools training in competitions in order to further develop vocational education in Poland. In his exposé, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised that in the coming years we would place a great deal of emphasis on professional teaching, because these are the needs of the labour market today. 60% Our students will probably work in competitions that haven't even been created yet. This project is the realization of those announcements. It should be stressed that the government also included the need to adapt the vocational training system to the needs of the modern economy in the Responsible Development Strategy. The proposed law will contribute to the dynamic development of vocational education and, above all, to increasing the participation of companies and companies' organisations in profiling vocational training. An important idea of the project is to strengthen employers' participation in vocational training, which is revealed on many levels. I fully agree with the government that close cooperation between schools and potential workplaces of their future graduates is essential. It gives both students and employers the chance to develop the best solutions on a constantly changing labour market. It is thanks to employers that it is possible to learn the best quality practical profession, which can be conducted under real working conditions. The Act increased funding for employers training young workers in deficit professions and introduced a student's internship which can be paid and allows students to gain invaluable experience. Compulsory vocational training has also been introduced for vocational teachers in vocational training companies. I was enthusiastic about the provisions that allow students to gain additional skills for their future job. Schools, through the amendment of the law, will gain additional opportunities for students to gain e.g. the skills of the operator of forklifts or SEPs. The proposed law introduces a number of positive changes which, in my opinion, will contribute to improving the quality of professional education in schools and thus to the number of better qualified graduates. Teachers will have the opportunity to upgrade their knowledge from the lectured subject and raise their skills. We must bet on the reliable knowledge of graduates of vocational schools, who, as rightly noted in the draft law, must undertake vocational examinations which allow for a comprehensive assessment of the state of vocational training in Poland. About Free and Solidarnia, supporting young people's chances of finding more effectively on the labour market, will vote in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u434	Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you very much for this bill. The proposed changes restore the prestige of vocational training in Poland. As a councillor of the Chojnice District in 2007, I proposed that the adaptation of vocational training courses to the labour markets in the regions concerned should definitely be addressed in small homelands. At the time, I offered annual conferences on this subject - unsuccessfully. On 2 June 2017, a meeting of the Parliamentary Group for the European Union was held in Chojnice, my city. problems solved by the Minister Anna Zalewska. The subject of this meeting was the labour market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] vocational training courses.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u436	Any questions, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u437	Minister, what is the opportunity to influence entrepreneurs so that this correlation is better so that the matching of education courses is as good as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. [[He's here, he's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a phase in training young people who require some preparation. I'd like to ask you about a very specific preparation. Namely or in primary schools, or maybe at an earlier stage, we will introduce, and if so, when, a game of chess, which, I think, will prepare this education in many ways and in a wider dimension? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a really good bill. Many of the changes proposed in it are accompanied by the kindness of the teaching community, the business community, the leading bodies. I would like to draw attention to the very good idea of the commitment of the bodies leading to the creation of separate accounts for vocational schools, and therefore of their ability to earn extra money on their own service activities. However, some doubts are raised as to whether the money earned by one school can be passed on by bodies running other institutions that will not be able to cope so well. I think it's like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The hopes of a large part of the environment would be buried. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u442	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u443	Although the law applies to most vocational or professional schools, as we call them, there are also elements concerning something else. First of all, the cafeteria thing. The Minister mentioned the need to rebuild the cafeteria. What's the real situation today? How many schools are short of canteens, and how long will it take us to restore canteens in practically all primary schools? How much is that gonna cost? The second element, which raises big controversy and quite large discussion among teachers, concerns the evaluation of teachers' work. First of all, how the Ministry changed its original assumptions regarding, for example, the time and method of assessing teachers. Is it deaf - as the opposition says - even to teachers' arguments or trade unions? Secondly, will the teacher really have to e.g. organize social gatherings for parents to earn a distinction, or is it just an invention and there is nothing in the rules? Third, will the teacher be obliged to present this assessment [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any mass of documents? Because some of these kinds of fears feed society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u444	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek. [[Can you shorten your speech, Minister? Three minutes, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I think it is very good that today is the first reading of this bill, a law to rebuild, as has been stated here many times, referring to the content of the justification of this law, prestige and the rank of vocational training. It is intended to restore and enhance the prestige and quality of education and the effectiveness of vocational training. Thank you for all the questions and all the votes. We have work in committees ahead of us, as well as work in subcommittees. I think I can say with all responsibility that we are counting on a substantial job. All the comments, all the proposals that will improve this project, we will accept. I think it is important that this law affects education law, but also the law related to other resorts, because the issue of professional education, technical education is not just a matter of the Minister of Education, it is primarily a matter of the government, it is a matter of employers, it is a matter of responsibility for Poland's development, for economic development. If someone would like to say that everything has already been done and nothing should be done, as I understood from the statement, then I will only say that every year we spend 9 billion PLN from the state budget for technical education, vocational training. It is mainly a subsidy, but it is also money from other resorts and infrastructure money. Today these indicators are changing a little bit, but until last year the situation was that in technical schools and industry schools we had 30, 40% alumni who were unemployed. It means they were educated badly in these schools, inefficiently. It is necessary to change the name in order to show what this education is intended to serve, but above all it is about improving the quality and efficiency of education. This can only be done if different elements - then we will probably show very much in detail in the case of this law - they will play when it comes to educational law and other activities. It is important to have good, effective professional advice for young people to choose their path and career well and then their professional career. It is also important to educate in a way that prepares people for a further life. We see, we predict how the economy will develop, so that this is flexible enough to allow young people to find themselves in the new reality. We are talking about employers, but above all we are thinking about social development and economic development. This is to be done by working with employers. As responsible representatives of the government, responsible representatives of Parliament, we must see and create what we want to happen in Poland. In vocational education we have about 56% young people. This is not less than in other countries, e.g. in Germany, but it is important that these are schools which provide for education and provide training in an appropriate way. Of course, this must be sustainable education. Theory and practice are not issues concerning some tools purchased for school. It is a matter of learning in real working conditions, practical learning, professional training. This is actually an employer's study. These moments with an employer at school may be different, but it is important that this is similar to the actual working conditions. As far as encouraging employers is concerned, first of all, the greatest incentive for employers to be aware of this is to build awareness that the most important investment is investment in man. It is not enough to invest in technology, first of all it is necessary to invest in man as it is in the world. It is quite obvious to employers that they invest in man, educate a young man and teach him the profession, because they have great discernment, some process of recruitment behind them, the upbringing of a young man as a future employee. This is a matter that requires a different look. In the case of analysis of financial matters, it is not that there are not enough resources in education, it is that they are not fully allocated. We see that 30, 40% young people are facing unemployment. It means that they are inadequately, ineffectively and inefficiently educated. All these actions that we have planned in this bill are absolutely to resolve this. Of course, actions involve learning, contact with the employer, signing contracts with the employer, but also mechanisms such as supporting donations for vocational training for schools and strengthening the separate account. This cannot be done outside the local government, because it would be contrary to the legitimacy of the statutory self-government as an entity, as an entity that creates financial policy in this area, but that account will be strengthened in accordance with these provisions. Of course, this law, as the Minister has already mentioned, as you have noted, also applies to other spheres. One of these areas is the solution for strengthening the school's care function. Indeed, a meal needs to be rebuilt and treated as a teaching element, an educational element, very important in the education and education process. Today you can say that there is a shortage of cafeteria in about 40% primary schools. These are our estimates. We strive to do this by preparing the school and home meal programme, and by obliging local authorities to do so in the law to resolve this matter by 2022. Thank you for your attention. I'm hoping for further good cooperation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u446	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the amendment of the Education Law and the Law on the system of education and other laws, contained in print No.2861, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Priests (prints 2831 and 2851). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft parliamentary act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance for Priests. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 12 September 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the committee for first reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after considering the draft law at its meeting on 26 September 2018, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law on printing no. 2831 without amendments. The purpose of the bill is to establish on 19 October the National Day of Remembrance of the Remembrance of the Holy Priests as a state holiday. The establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Reliable Priests is an expression of homage to priests who expressed their faith with their attitude, but also to bravery and steadfast patriotic attitude and often shed blood in defence of Poland, their Christian homeland. In all of history Poland appeared the characters of steadfast heroic clergy, for whom Christian ideas and faith in God were the basis for apostolicism, while deep patriotism served to build an attitude among society for regaining and maintaining independence, especially in such difficult times for our country of the 19th and 20th centuries. The applicants of the bill in the explanatory memorandum presented a number of CVs of the impeccable priests who, during the partitions, during the struggle for independence, during the German and Soviet occupations and during the enslavement of Poland during the communist era, showed themselves incorruptible attitude, defending faith, Polishness and society. St. Sigismund of Lucky Feliński, Fr. General Stanisław Brzóska, Fr. Ignacy Shell, St. Maximilian Kolbe, Fr. Józef Stank, Fr. Michał Pilipca, Primate of Poland card. Stefan Wyszyński, Fr. bp. Anthony Baraniak, Fr. George Popieluszko and many, many others. These priests were persecuted, brutally tortured and murdered for their activities. October 19 - the day of the kidnapping and the beginning of the martyr's death of the blessed Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko as a symbol of the solid priest - he was chosen by the applicants of this bill by the National Day of Remembrance of Priests. The draft law does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units. The project has a positive social impact. The Act is to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The bill was adopted by a majority. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u448	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Melak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House a bill on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance for Priests. Over the centuries, Polish priests have been those who, in the most difficult times of captivity, passed the teachings against the instructions of the invaders. Their determination, courage, faithfulness to the principles and the preaching of the truth were encouraging, showing how to behave, giving examples. Today, on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, it is our duty, but it is also a great privilege to honor and respect the attitude of faith, patriotism, courage and fidelity. It was they who taught, from the pulpit, that showed values and examples of attitudes for the people. They also fought with guns in their hands, carrying the service of the wounded. Such priests were Fr. Brow, Fr. Ignatius Skorupka and hundreds of chaplains who fought and dedicated their lives from the Bar Confederation to the Warsaw Uprising. They are priests like Andrzej Bobola, Bishop Happy Feliński, Maximilian Kolbe, Fr. Dobrzanski, 30 dads of Redemptorists, Fr. Chaplain Józef Stanek tortured and hung on his own stole during the Warsaw Uprising, as well as those steadfastly murdered in concentration camps, NKVD catholics in Katyn, Mednoje and Kharkov. Those who were not murdered by the occupiers were murdered by bandits of folk power. Fr. Michał Pilipiec, Michał Rapacz, Władysław Gurgacz, Stanisław Domański, Roch Łaski died at the hands of the people's oppressors. 65 years ago, the Homeland Security Bureau arrested Fr. Primate Stefan Wyszyński and bishop. Anthony Baraniak. Bishop Baraniak sat in a communist catholic [[♪ The bell ♪]] on ul. It's a cancer movie. This attitude, these wonderful examples, allow us to hope that the High House will establish a day...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u450	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u451	... October 19th, the day of the steadfast priests. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Too short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u452	Mr Antoni Man, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Imperial Priests. The aim of the project is to establish on 19 October the National Day of Remembrance of the Priests of Remembrance as a state holiday, which is to be an expression of homage to priests who, in particular during difficult periods for our homeland, actively acted for Poland, its independence, development, sovereignty and prosperity. During the partitions the clergy were depositaries of the lost statehood and raised generations to freedom, thanks to which the Poles remained able to rebuild their own state. They were with Polish soldiers on the fronts of World War I and in the Battle of Warsaw. During World War II, priests carried the sacramental ministry of the people and supported them spiritually. They were murdered both because of their nationality and because of their hatred of the Church. They were murdered in concentration camps throughout Europe, the most heroic and sanctified example of which is St. Maximilian Kolbe, martyr of Auschwitz. They died in Katyn, Kharkov and Mednoje and in the Warsaw Uprising. In communist times immediately after World War II, clergymen were considered anti-stateists and often eliminated from public life, repressed, arrested, murdered, especially those most active and courageous. Repressions were also met by the highest church leaders, which was the most famous example of which was the arrest of the Primate of Poland cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński and Bishop Anthony Baraniak. In times of rebellion and breakthroughs from later communist times we find again many steadfast priests on the side of values and society. Theirs cannot be mentioned, but it is necessary to mention Fr. Roman Kotlarz, especially the murdered: b. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, Fr. Stefan Sunday, Fr. Stanisława Suchowolca and Fr. New Year's Eve of the Dead. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law, although it would really be worth honoring this law to all priests, and so also to nuns and nuns, alumni who were not priests, and who often gave their lives for faith and their homeland. As many as 108 of them were beatified in 1999 by John Paul II. In 2000, John Paul II also beatified 11 nazaretanes who offered themselves for 12 arrested residents who were to be shot by the Germans. Nazaretanki were murdered by shooting on 1 August 1943. If it were also the wish of the applicants, it would be best to withdraw this law to the committee in the procedure for the re-trial of that law in order to supplement it. And here I make such a proposal and a proposal for applicants to honor them all, and perhaps the most beatified is among those clergymen who were not priests to extend this bill to all priests who gave their lives and were [[♪ The bell ♪]] martyrs recognized also by our Pope John Paul II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Priests. Better late than never. This old Polish saying comes to mind when we are proceding a necessary and important law, because today, when courage stood up, and the spitting of values became fashionable, many Poles try to look at the Church and priests through distorted visions of the anti-clerical film Young people do not know, the elders try not to remember, because sometimes they are comfortable, that in times of enslavement it was the Church who was the refuge of freedom and truth. Many clergymen were the basis of a sense of security and hope for thoughtless Poles. This law pays tribute to the people, the steadfast priests, but also to the whole Church as an institution, whose integrity significantly contributed to the survival of the idea of free and independent Poland. Today, it is easy for some to ridicule the slogan of God - honor - homeland, to appeal to the separation of the state and the Church, but in the years of German and later communist slavery it was the priests who witnessed fidelity to the ideals of independent and Christian Poland, who stood in the first line of the struggle for national freedom, who were aware that Poland's existence and distinctness owes itself to Christian roots, and thanks to the faithfulness of this heritage survived the national spirit and language. The heir of this Church and independent Poland, whose 100 years of rebirth this year we celebrate, was also cardinal. Charles Wojtyła, St. John Paul the Great, who not only taught and led the Cracow Church in this spirit, and later universally, but personally witnessed to the steadfast faithfulness of the traditions of independent Poland. It is also worth recalling other characters, Archbishop Ignacy Touchdown or cardinal. Henry Gulbinovich. Only by their own discretion, but also by God's grace, they did not become victims of the communist system. Today, when it is so easy to ridicule the unworthy attitude of the priestly state, and no one can deny that they are, we often forget to give life and blood, martyrdom and full consecration to the service that the steadfast clergy were carrying. But if the time of distress were to come again, perhaps many of those who today are loudest shouting about the secularity of the state would seek refuge in the temples, waiting for help from the clergy. It is certain that shelter and help [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll get it. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u456	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Incorruptible Priests. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the initiative of the PiS Members is an extremely inept response to the record-breaking film Kler. I would like you to remember that the steadfast priests are commemorated by people... [[Shame on you! Discredit, discredit, discredit!]] [[Don't stop!]] All right, all right, all right. [[Shame, shame!]] Can I go on?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u458	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u459	I would like you to remember that the steadfast priests...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u460	Wait a minute, sir. [[Shame on you, priest's brother.]] One second, sir. Have you cooled off yet? [[Shut that sucker up.]] Have you cooled down? Have you cooled down? Are you gonna yell or not? [[Shut that sucker up.]] That's what we're gonna do. [[Why don't you shut that up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u461	I would like you to remember that the steadfast priests are commemorated by the people they served in their grateful memory. They are often patrons of squares, squares and streets. They are commemorated by the Lord God because they have received the reward of eternal life, and in this their priestly calling for service to God and to their neighbor is fulfilled. Blessed George Popieluszko, a presbytery and martyr, beastly murdered by esbeks, like many other blessed and holy ones, and this group will probably be much wider, because in the case of many people there is an individual beatification or canonization process, it does not need any political, PiS-canonization or other Pharisaic attitudes calculated to raise political capital. That's why we're voting against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u462	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully share Mr Owl's assessment from the Modern Club. Let me put it this way: this is obviously a front, and it's not just a cover-up of the film, but also a cover-up of this outrageous case, an inept attempt by the Church to handle pedophilia. So we have two fronts. Please, sir, do not protest against the truth, because you will not shout the truth. [[Voice from the room: What is the truth? Clerk?]] The authors of this scandalous bill lie quite thoroughly. At school, a teacher sometimes says to a student, "If you can't lie, don't lie. If you can't lie, don't lie. You have an excellent pattern, Mr. Morawiecki, who is quite far from the truth, but who is excellent at cursing. This bill presents a completely ridiculous historiosophy. He presents the lied history of Poland, completely one-sided. The Church, of course, played a positive role, but very often also played a shameful role, e.g. supporting the marketplace, condemning national uprisings. Patriotic priests in the '50s. What was that? Aren't you gonna notice that? Who was that? The same patriotic priests back then supported dictatorship. Today these are priests such as Jędraszewski, Głodź, Rydzyk, who support today's dictatorship. This is a disgraceful chapter for the Church. Congratulations to the representative of the Civic Platform. Actually, you had to do it with the PiS, gentlemen, together. You said the same thing, so that I would propose that you make a deal and file a joint bill of Platform and PiS, because I didn't see the difference here. As far as this whole concept is concerned, this idea to suddenly distinguish one group of people, why should this particular group be distinguished? After all, many people fought communism, fought during the occupation: peasants, craftsmen, teachers, doctors, foresters. Very much. That weird homage you're making today, it's not necessary. It's embarrassing. Another PiS-owska, Lizusowska, falsifying history law, and it is also not necessary law. The church can handle it. The Church of the One to Canonize, Canonizes. Don't deliver the Church, leave the Church alone. Mr. Marshal! I'll still be allowed to make an amendment here. It is properly in line with the amendment that has already been proposed by Mr Husband. Me, too, actually, in that spirit. The point is that the word "priest" should be replaced by the word "spiritual," because the word "priest" excludes, excludes other religions and excludes people who are not... After all, not everyone is a priest. There were others, nuns, e.g. nuns. Of course, this bill due to the action of the PiS mechanical majority will unfortunately be adopted. The point is, at least this mistake... Although speaking to you is throwing peas against the wall at all, it's a waste of time. Anyway, for history's sake, let me make this amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the interest of other creeds. You're welcome, Marshal. The PSL-UED Club will vote individually on this issue, there is no common position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u464	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarni Wheel on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Remembrance of the Remembrance Priests. The project under investigation assumes the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of the Remembrance of the Reliable Priests, which would take place on 19 October. The establishment of this day as a public holiday is an expression honor and respect for priests who sacrificed their lives for our freedom. Their patriotism and Christian attitude deserve a unique place in the life of the Polish people. The clergy - among whom were such figures as St. Sigismund Happy Feliński, St. Andrzej Bobola, Maximilian Kolbe, Primate of Poland Cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński or b. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko - with all their lives they showed that there is nothing more important to them than Christian faith and the raising of generations to freedom. Many times, not only with a word but also with action, they became involved in the recovery of their lost homeland. In Polish history, the clergy played a significant role, and for the first time in such a clear way we can pay tribute to them all. We must cultivate our history, cherish heroes and remind the next generation of great Poles, thanks to which they can live in free and better Poland today. Let us remember that a nation that loses its memory is no longer a nation. I hope that today we will all rise above the political fight and join in the worship of our heroes. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the presented project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u466	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u467	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of the steadfast priests, a particularly close figure to me - in this multitude - is blessed. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, chaplain of the Solidarity Party, who was kidnapped by communist oppressors on 19 October. His last moments are connected with the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship: the last mass was celebrated in Fordon, was kidnapped in Podtoruńska Górsko, his tired body was found at the Włocławska dam, and the propaganda process of killers took place in Toruń. Currently in Górsk is the center of youth education of his name, and in Włocławek a sanctuary and a museum of martyrdom of the Blessed Virgin Mary was recently established. Fr. George. For people working in Torun chaplains [[♪ The bell ♪]] remains an important figure highlighting the ethos of work for the common good. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u468	Beautiful, my fellow Member, but I did not notice the question at all. There are statements for this formula, not questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u469	If the convention of question is to be preserved, is it true? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u470	All right. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I live in Gliwice. 30 km from Gliwice is the town of Rybnik, from which it came. Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. Although I did not find his name in the justification, I would like to mention this figure in this discussion because, as a prisoner of Auschwitz, a prisoner of the Katowice prison, a man sentenced by the Germans to death penalty by beheading, then a man who did so much good to sustain the spirit in the Polish People's Republic, I think he deserves at least to find himself in the justification. In my life, the most important thing he preached was the famous sentence: Do not be afraid, because only fear makes us slaves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u472	Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to confuse the facts - this law concerns the great figures of the Catholic Church, the great priests. Let's not confuse movies with history. Let's not use just any movie characters and movie narratives. This law concerns a great priest, Fr. Andrzej Boboli from Strachocin. This is the only figure, Mr Owl, in the history of the Church whose pope devoted his encyclical. I don't think you knew that this bill was relevant. Fr. Andrzej Bobola, patron of Poland, is the only priest in the history of the Roman Catholic Church to whom the Pope devoted his encyclical. And you're questioning that today through the movie Kler? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to say that this bill also applies to Fr. The ashes... [[Yes.]] ... Fr. Kolbe, Fr. Jancarza, Fr. Gurgach from Podkarpacie. And you are quoting today... Shame, embarrassment, sir, the great embarrassment that you are undermining great figures...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u474	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u475	...the Polish Church, using the narration of the newspaper...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u476	Okay, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u477	...who's just lying anywhere and just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u478	Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this law is so designed that the task of questioning it is limited to a miracle. You can't ask a question about such an obvious bill. This is a clear matter. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, forgive me for not asking questions, because there can be no questions here. The matter is evidently clear. In fact, our supposed-questions will sound like statements. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm told a man of old age is nobler, but that's not true. Turns out that's not true, there are exceptions. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And that's when all the crap comes out. [[Applause]] That's crazy. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to which you must respond. You can't just let this shit get to the public. That's what we should be responding to. In total, I will ask the applicants: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you believe that this bill can make a difference in these people's attitudes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u481	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to ask the question because you can ask the applicant a question. I would like the applicant to once again present who the priests were who were cursed, once again to remind... [[Relentless.]] Relentless. ...he reminded Mr. Owl, Mr. Niesiolovski, because I don't think they understood. For them, the movie "Kler" is important. I ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe what you're saying? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u482	Thank you, Member. Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u483	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I was not to speak, but provoked by the speech of a Member of the Polish People's Party, as well as a Modern Member, I would like to point out that this law is very important and what the Members of these two groups, and above all the Polish People's Party, said, is hypocrisy, because they stand in the first rows of benches in churches and here so low flight performance. You don't agree with any parliamentarian, not even a parliamentarian who's already been defined by my predecessor... It defiles this House, it defiles the role of Member, the mandate of Member, it also defiles the role of citizen of the Republic of Poland. The priests had, the Church had a great role in the fact that we regained independence, a great role in the fact that we fought [[♪ The bell ♪]] for independence and during partitions, and during the war with Hitlerism, with Germany, but also during Stalinism, during communism.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u484	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u485	And we want to honor them with this bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u486	Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions, but at first I will say that as I crossed the threshold of this House, I have passed away, and I am proud of it. Where is the limit to disregarding religious feelings? That's the first question. In this room, in the 100th anniversary of the apparitions of Fatima, Members of the total opposition drew ballots. Can math be lied to as part of a total chase at the Catholic Church? Is 1 equal to 1,000? And one more question: Can the integrity of the priests affected by the bill be undermined? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u488	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Zielinski, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there were very few questions. Mr Piotr Pyzik pointed out that Fr. Balnicki. It is impossible to name all the great figures that can be identified with the steadfast priests. Here I spoke with the applicant - Mr Andrzej Melak, that these are just examples that cannot be mentioned. So don't let anybody take it the way someone's been left out. These are just examples of steadfast priests. Of course, there are many, many more, as colleagues and colleagues have mentioned here. Mr Józef Brynkus asked if we believed in change. Of course we do. And I don't think there have been any more questions, Mr. Marshal. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u490	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the wheels of rural hostess (print No 2856). I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the government, a draft law on farm housewives' wheels, print number 2856. The history of rural housewives circles is long. They have played a very important role in the activation of rural areas, in the promotion of quality of life, in raising the level of education and culture. And the question arises: Is this organisation still needed in the 21st century, or will its impact on rural life be assessed only in historical terms? I am convinced that the circles of the country hostess are experiencing their renaissance. Very many also young women, well-educated, prepared to work together, want to build communities in rural areas, want to spend time together, pursue their life aspirations together, enjoy together. The village hostels in Poland have about 21 thousand, they have different legal forms, because apart from those which by virtue of the Act of October 1982 - I will remind you that this is about the act on socio-professional farmers' organizations, the law from the night of martial law - they are only auxiliary bodies for agricultural circles and on their behalf can be heard by agricultural circles... Part of the hostess' circles that operate in places where there are no agricultural rings, as well as those that did not want to acknowledge such form in a sense of enslavement... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u492	I'm so sorry, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm interested in what the Minister says. If you're not here, I'd like to invite you to talk to me on the clowns. [[You're right, Mr. Marshal.]] Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: Some of these housewives chose the form of associations, but it seems that there is time to sort it out as well. Besides, the rural housewives and rural women expect this. That is why we are presenting with a bill that will allow us to regulate what is most expected, i.e. to give legal personality to the village hostels' Circles. This law also lays down in particular what activities can be carried out by the rural hostel's circles. These include: socio-educational, educational and cultural activities related to rural development, support for entrepreneurship, various actions to improve quality of life. This activity will be carried out by entities with legal personality. And the dysfunction they have suffered so far - the inability to benefit from support from local authorities, which then had huge problems, if they have allocated any resources, even if they have seen and appreciated the activity of rural hostels' circles - will be removed. It will also be possible to use various forms of support in the form of measures from local action groups, measures granted under European Union programmes or national measures. It is also possible to consider, and this law provides for, support in the form of targeted grants from the state budget. That is why we propose that we introduce a very simple and effective way of recording the circles of rural hostesses and giving them personality through the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - a government institution, universal, having its offices in every district in Poland. Registration will take place at the request of the hostess's group submitted to the county office. The law is attached to the model statute of the village housewives' circle, which can be accepted by founders or founders, because the law does not discriminate against men and probably with well-functioning wheels also men will be able to demonstrate their activity. Around the village hostess may adopt this model statute, possibly in accordance with the law, to prepare his own statute. We respect democracy and the possibility of developing our own statutory solutions, corresponding to the law. The legal personality will also allow the rural hostess' collectives to carry out economic activities. This is very important, because in various forms of their activity this business activity of the wheels wanted to run, and often they could not do so. I will remind you of the scandalous events that the press described a few years ago when housewives who took up culinary activities, some shows at festivals, at harvests, at various kinds of events important to rural communities, were punished by tax officials for selling their productions. We want to solve all of this with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act also sets out very simplified accounts, records of activities carried out and turnover by the rural hostel circle. The Minister of Finance placed such a simplified accounting method there and it seems that this is also a very good solution. The Act also specifies the minimum number of people who can start a village housewives - that is 10 people. It sets out the principles of internal democracy. It also allows for the creation of associations of several circles of rural hostels in order to implement joint actions, common interests in several villages. It also specifies, by amending several other laws, that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will not only be a registering institution, but also the head of the county agency's office will provide comprehensive assistance to ladies who would like to set up and develop activities within the rural hostel's circle, setting up, even if necessary, a special proxy to assist these organisations. Also, a representative of the government for small and medium-sized enterprises may, if necessary, because of the large amount of intensity of organizing rural hostels' circles, appoint a regional representative who will help housewives organize their activities. It seems that these are very beneficial solutions, and for a few days now, since the Council of Ministers has adopted this project, I have received many thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture and to my private addresses from women who believe that some kind of dysfunction, in order not to use the word 'discrimination', these most active women in the countryside is eliminated by this law. Therefore, the question at first whether the rural housewives' wheels are needed must be answered absolutely affirmatively. They're needed. In addition, women are often the most active part of the villagers here, and they take various kinds of actions that serve local communities. In addition to this rather traditional activity, if you can use this word, connected with folk culture, with handicrafts, with works of folk art, there are new issues. It is about needs similar to expectations or needs of other social groups, i.e. access to culture, recreational activities, sports activities and in all other respects concerning villagers. In my opinion, this law is generally too late, and it should have helped women organize for a long time. We are also trying to correct the period when women acted or in unacceptable forms of subordinateism to other socio-professional farmers' organisations, or acted informally, losing the possibility of broad support from both local government and civil society organisations. The Act also provides for the possibility of supporting wheels from the state budget through special grants for activities both this year and the following years. It also provides, of course, that there are no registration fees, all of which are free of charge. The activities of the rural hostess circle for the implementation of the activities set out in the statutes are also free of income tax. I do not know what other arguments to use to persuade the High House to support the bill. [[That's enough.]] It seems that all this, this argument, which I have made very briefly, is sufficient to strongly support the project and help rural women to organise themselves in the way that the 21st century expects. Thank you for your attention and I ask the High House to support the bill. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u493	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, it is my honor to present our opinion on the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, print No. 2856. I must say, Minister, your argument has convinced us 100%. , was quite enough to convince us, our entire club, to support this bill. It's like a joke. Now, seriously, ladies and gentlemen, this law is ordering matters concerning the rural housewives' circles in the country. At the moment, some kind of laws over the wheels of the country housewives have taken over the farm circles. We know that this is one of the agricultural organizations, but very politicized, and because of that the circles of rural hostess had some discomfort because they did not want to be political, they wanted to act apolitically, apartitely. Maybe I'd say it's not apolitical, it's an apartment. On the other hand, this organization, which had such care over the circles of rural hostessesses, was very stubborn about the circles of rural hostesses. Also the Uncles... Minister - I think you know this well - and, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Opoczyn County. In our district, almost every village is near rural hostels, working dynamically near rural hostels. Very often it happens that the uncle who wants to please in some way the Circles of the village hostess, supports them, gives them some money, but those who do not politically suit him, does not want to give money, does not want to support them, so they work differently. This bill sorts out this case, gives birth to the village housewives' circles. They're gonna have legal personality, it's kind of the most important thing, because they're gonna be able to perform... The village hostess's circles will be less affected by the mayor's or the mayor's. The rural hostess' circles themselves will take various measures to develop their activities, the activity they have done so far, but have faced serious difficulties. That's why this bill cleans it up. On behalf of the village housewives' circles, Minister, we thank you for this bill. I know the country housewives are waiting to sort this thing out, sort it out. This is an important issue in all respects, including in the respect of which the Minister said that the rural hostels' circles could be financially supported. Until now they have not been supported by the state budget, now there will be an opportunity to support the circles of rural housewives from the state budget. It's extra money, because of course it doesn't interfere with the fact that, as has been the case so far, the mayor or the mayor has supported the circles of rural hostess in his commune, but they will also be able to be supported by the state budget. Of course, there is also this voivodship coordinator in voivodships, where there are many rural hostels. Let us accept this my voivodship, Łódź voivodship, where there is a very strong Opoczyn region, also the Łódź region, which is also located in this voivodship. There, such a coordinator will be needed in order to help these groups of rural hostesses, to lead them, to support them, to guide them, to get funds, so that no more associations of all kinds should be established, as has been done so far, often fictional associations, only to apply for funds. In conclusion, Minister, it can be said that this is a very good law that cleans up matters concerning the circles of rural hostesses, defying the circles of rural hostess, which is very, very important that these people - because they are not just women - who are very active in the countryside, build this community. We are talking about family, we are talking about building this family community, which is very important, but also about the larger communities that arise in the villages, in the municipalities. This bill helps with that. Minister, we could still use a law on voluntary firefighters that would also defy them, because there, too, we know that, there is a need for such support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u494	Please, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u495	Minister, I don't know if I said at first... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...we support...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u496	No, I'm sorry. Mr. President, what is this strange return? Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u497	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm glad you're here personally at this hour. High Izbo! The draft Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives is to give the wheels a new organisational form, to make them independent from farmers' associations, circles and agricultural organizations. Their registration under the proposed law is to take place in the branches of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, i.e. the government agency. The central register is really to be in the hands of the president of this government agency. So, Mr Telus, because you spoke in front of me, talking about the denial of the circles of the country hostess is above all insulting these wheels, because they are not stubborn today. [[Applause]] That's one thing. And secondly, if they're to be entered in the register that the president of the government agency actually runs, I think you're headed for stubbornness right now. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Wheels or associations are to receive association status, which will make it easier for them to raise funds, which is of course worth the support. They will also be able to receive grants in accordance with the principles developed by the Minister responsible for Development. The question is whether all the wheels will have the same chance or only those that will present the pro-government program. It is difficult not to ask, since we are proceeding on another, as I stress, a good bill, but we are proceeding over it in a hurry - because last week she entered the Sejm - and in the middle of the night, because at hours. 0.30, i.e. half past one o'clock in the morning, in addition during the election campaign and without the public consultation requested by NGOs. They hoped to participate in the creation of the provisions of this law. We have in the project, in the article. 24 provisions on subsidies for rural hostels' groups in 2018 After all, the idea is for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, during this election campaign, to go to the village and announce that the PiS government cares about the circles of the country's hostess. It is sad that purely political motives, not genuine attention to rural matters, are the driving force behind this project. We prepared a project about the Social Fund a few years ago. But we prepared it and started implementing it immediately after the 2008 parliamentary elections, not during the election campaign before the next elections. [[Who's the first to prepare? Us.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We did not treat the Social Fund as an electoral tool, just as you today treat the rural hostels' circles. Of course, Minister, we are in favour of further work on this project, because we believe that after the Social Fund I have already mentioned it is another step in support of rural initiatives, these social ones. [[My name came up.]] But we would like you to solve the real problems of the village, including those related to the circles of the country's hostess. Using the Minister's presence, I would say that you should also proceed at such a rate. on aid issues for farmers or on ASF issues. You don't do this country in a hurry, in the middle of the night, because it won't be popular during this election campaign. Take the village housewives' circles seriously. We will support further work on this law, but I ask for respect for the rural hostels' circles. They weren't, they aren't, and they won't be partying. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u498	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk submitted the position of the Kukiz club15 in writing. Here you are, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u499	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I want to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to the government's draft law on the circles of the country hostess. At the moment, there are around 26 thousand in Poland. wheels. As calculated, more than 700,000 belong to them. persons. These groups activate the village, organize local events, promote tradition. They can also be a large group of voters. And that's the point of the case, the meaning of this law at this point in time. It seems that the projector, the ruling party, wants to win an electorate in this way, to say the least. It is interesting to see the rush to introduce this law, which is not crucial for the functioning of the state. The hostess' circles have been operating for over 100 years and will continue to operate with existing legal powers. Around rural hostess is assumed to be voluntary, independent of government and local government, a social organisation of rural residents, which is intended to support the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas and actively promote their living environments. The Act under investigation imposes its statutes and requires it to be entered in the National Register of Rural Houses. Active wheels can already register the association and raise funds for statutory purposes. Will there not be a sudden harvest after the new law has been passed, because the hostess's circles will begin to form like mushrooms after the rain, just to receive the government's promised start-up grant and that will be the end of their activities? Poland has changed a lot. The promotion of folklore, local culture, tradition support or support for women's entrepreneurship today is carried out by various associations and local activists in the countryside, not only by the circles of rural hosts. They also have good ideas, experience and willingness to act. So why do you want to support only one group? After all, the others deserve such support. Why not develop solutions that promote active ones? A much better way to stimulate creativity would be to distribute programmes that could be used by everyone, and points would be awarded for an idea rather than a label. We are in favour of supporting the circles of rural hostesses, and change is needed, but independence records are a farce when the registration of the circles is conducted and supervised by the head of the government agency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Speaking of which, he thinks it's in the election campaign. The campaign will pass, and the bill will stay, so there's nothing to worry about. I, too, am, to be honest, a great enthusiast and fan of the activities of the rural hostess circles, because there is absolutely no doubt that their activity simply arouses respect and is extremely important to the rural community. But I also have some questions about this bill. Minister! You are well aware that in recent years there have been many associations based on the circles of rural hostesses. They were registered in the district old-fashioned societies as ordinary associations, having this defective legal personality. I would like to say that the registration requirements of your proposed act are higher than those of the county. Perhaps it would be worthwhile simply harmonising these requirements so that there are no such issues. The second issue is, of course, about finance and the potential transfer of subsidies to the rural hostel circles. I understand that this grant will only be possible to pass on to those who will register. What about the ones that don't register? In Małopolska, for several years, we carried out the project "Gram on the start." We strongly encouraged associations to establish their associations. I am missing a certain element in the Minister's proposal, e.g. what about regional teams, which often impose on the activities of rural hostels? What, for example? with thematic villages, which, to be honest, are very often implemented by women from the rural hostels' circles? Wouldn't it be a better solution... Perhaps: Shouldn't we also think about legal personality having a commonality? Because that, Minister, would solve the enormous number of problems involved. Often it is enough that a small town will have one association, and it will be able to accommodate all forms of activity that are in the village. On the other hand, when it comes to limiting the circles of rural hostels to only one in the area of the village, I would like to say that in many cases there will be a problem, because there are settlements in large villages, I have one in the county, after 7 and 8 thousand. What will they do then, e.g. Upper piss, Lower piss? [[Two, three associations.]] We'll prevent them from registering. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They often operate simply in an area much larger than small ones, i.e. 300-person or 400-person settlements. Please take these aspects into account as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u502	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u503	Of course, we are positive about this project and will work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u504	Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I present an opinion on this law, i.e. the law on the wheels of rural hostels. One might wonder what the reason for this project is. The direct cause is October 21st, the upcoming municipal elections. The losing popularity of the party, which today exercises power in rural areas in Poland, forced this project to direct. What other conclusion can be drawn from this? After all, in November 2017 a parliamentary draft law was introduced to the High House, which regulates the activities of the groups of rural hostesses, among others. in this respect, so that they are excluded from agricultural rings, which I also agree with. And this law did not have a government opinion from November 2017 until the end of March 2018. When this government opinion reached the High House, it was negative for this project. What changed at the time that you changed your mind that the rural housewives' circles should have a special regulation, a special status? It seems that there are two factors that I mentioned at the beginning, i.e. that this has led to a weakening popularity in rural areas, support among farmers and upcoming elections. Even if that's the reason why I'm leaning towards it, it's a good thing that this law went to the High House because it will leave a lasting trace in the activities of the rural hostess' circles. She actually has a good influence in many places, but in many places she's just a literary fiction. What's good about this bill? Indeed, it is the exclusion of rural housewives' wheels from the structures of agricultural circles, because this is a historical event. Then, when circles were formed, when the rings of the village hostess were formed, it was decided, and these were times quite distant, that these two organizations would function together to oversee the circles of the village hostess. It's actually positive. Are there any negatives? They'd probably be there. On the other hand, other records in my mind are only public records to show that indeed the circles of the country hostess and those people who operate there enjoy the trust of the ruling party. The rural hostels' circles today operate in different formulas. There is such a formula that they are actually under agricultural circles, but the vast majority of rural hostels work today in the form of an association. Today, so that the wheels can work in the form of an association, three people will be enough. A regular association can set up three people. These people don't have to be 10, just like you suggest, only 3 people will be enough. More importantly, this formula of the three-person ordinary association, which, next to the country hostess can be today, allows us to keep accounts on very simplified rules. So we don't open anything new, we don't create anything new. The rural hostels in this form work very well today. They have legal personality, they can apply for funding from municipal, district and voivodship funds, and they do so perfectly and in large quantities. Nothing changes in this respect. They also receive funding from local action groups. As for the argument made by the Minister, in one aspect, I agree. Namely today, the rural hostels' circles are often subject to tax control. Today, yesterday and the day before yesterday, and two years ago, and three years ago, this year and a year ago, such cases took place. Circles of country housewives, these women, these men who at festivals, e.g. They presented tinctures, they were the subject of attacks by the IRS. There's been a parking ticket. This is the right face for you as regards the approach to the rural hostels' circles and the activity of people who operate in these areas. It is also worth asking, and this is the question I ask, what do you foresee in the case of the Social Fund? Is it true that there will be a reduction in appropriations for the new year when it comes to the Social Fund? Do you sometimes wish to cover this political activity of supporting the rural hostess' circles? I'm putting a question mark here, waiting for an answer today or another day. I would like to say once again that the Polish People's Party is in favour of people who are active in rural areas acting in different formulas: associations, local action groups, associations, organizations, so that they also operate in the circles of rural hostels. And I agree that there is indeed a renaissance of these organizations. For some several years now, more and more active people, including young people, have wanted to act in the circles of rural hostels. We meet such wheels in typically agricultural rural areas. Surprisingly, and well, we meet with such activities in rural areas, which today are inhabited by people coming from, for example. from the big cities that settled in these areas. I know a couple of these types of country housewives. Such wheels work in a very correct, very good way today. Let's hope it works as long as possible and as best as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, we will support this project, we will pay attention to it, because it is quite valuable for rural areas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs. Margaret Mirror, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. This project provides for the possibility to register quickly and thus to give farmers' associations legal personality and enable them to apply for grants. According to the proposed rules, registered groups of rural housewives will be able to receive a special grant from the State budget for the implementation of specific tasks in 2018. The National Register of Rural Houses will be maintained by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The rural hostels are one of the oldest forms of social organizations in Poland and one of the more active forms of organizing women in the countryside. Their activity promotes the development of entrepreneurship in the Polish countryside and the care of culture and the cultivation of local traditions. I am therefore pleased that the government, through this legislative initiative, appreciates the exceptional importance of women in rural areas. I am convinced that the proposed regulations will provide unprecedented support for rural hostels' circles, which, as we know, are becoming more and more numerous. In my opinion, it is necessary to emphasise that the provisions in question contain a number of simplifications regarding the setting up and running of rural hostels. It is located in them, among others. the model statute which, at the discretion of the organisation concerned, may or may not accept, and the conditions and rules for keeping a simplified register of revenue and costs are laid down, which is important given the possibility for the rings to conduct the rural economic activity. In view of the current situation of the rural hostess circles, I believe that this project will contribute to the development of their activities. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u508	Let's get to the questions. If any of you, e.g. Mr Telus, he wants to speak, I invite you. [[No, I'll tell you in my statements.]] I'll close the list after the first minute, after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u509	Thank you, Marshal. In keeping with the convention of questions, therefore, I ask: Is it true that the activities of rural hostess circles so far are proposed a new, large programme of activation and support, including the giving of legal personality, which gives the possibility of electoral and funding from a targeted grant? In Poland there are about 7 thousand. Rural hostels' circles. Their activity due to diversity is quite difficult to grasp. The rural hostess' circles cultivate Polish traditions and culture, as well as serve the vibrant development of civil society and rural areas. My question is: Is it just registered circles of country housewives [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they have legal personality, gain through this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u510	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you two questions. First thing. What subsidies can be made to these wheels? The second point is that I am still interested in this issue. Why is it possible to sign up for just one wheel? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u512	Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the Minister. There are such embarrassing situations - and I think even ladies who are going out at the moment and who were very interested in this project - that there are circles of rural hostess who are in a very difficult situation, which is, in short, we are on festivals, on harvests, these ladies of us, the guests are giving something, and then I ask, where do you get the money for it? It's just a bake... [[But are we criticizing?]] I did not criticize you, my fellow Member. And then the ladies say, "We baked it ourselves, we made it ourselves, we brought it ourselves." I wanted to ask the Minister if this bill is doing anything about it... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u514	Member, please. But without screaming...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u515	...to change this situation just now, if we're at harvest festivals, festivals... [[That's respect.]] ...and somebody's giving us something? Does this bill make me buy a cookie at the KGW, some macaque or something? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The brooch you made? Does this law provide an opportunity for economic activity according to the rules that operate for micro and small enterprises? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u516	Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u517	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would very much like to thank the Minister for this bill. As you yourself have said, this law is ordering the situation of the circles of rural housewives in Poland. I am aware that this bill will increase the role of women in the country... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u518	Question, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u519	But I still have time to ask you a question, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u520	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u521	My question is: Will this law increase the number of rural housewives' wheels and how this will affect the cultural and economic development of the Polish village? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u522	Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A few questions. First question: As a result of the regulation, it is indicated that there will be 90 million this year, 100 million next year, and it has been zeroed since 2020. Is this some kind of mistake? So I'm asking you here to respond. Second line. What are the possible award criteria? Will it be a lump sum, or will it be an assessment of whether the size of the village will be taken into account here? I think you need to have it ready, since this year you're going to start funding at the level of 90,000. zł. And the last, third question is that nature. It is a little connected with the question of the honourable Member. What if the village hostess today doesn't register in accordance with the law but operates in the village? Or, for example, may arise new [[♪ The bell ♪]] near the country housewives and register? How do we solve this issue? So we don't get into conflict in the villages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u524	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all those questions. I am also pleased that, despite the political rhetoric that prevails in Parliament, there were no critical voices. No one questioned that, he didn't say that the bill was pointless. I would like to stress that the role of existing wheels is still appreciated. These are the hostess' circles that exist at the moment, they themselves will determine whether they want to operate under this law, also using not so much the forms of support but primarily the legal personality. I think this is far more important than even a few thousand external support a year, because it is only legal personality that opens up real opportunities for help from many sources. If someone does not want to act within these regulations, he will have the right to act within the framework of existing structures and subordinates in accordance with democracy. It is quite crazy to say that the introduction of registers of rural housewives' wheels by a government institution is a politicisation of the registration process, a politicisation of the wheel. To be honest, I don't understand this argument. What does that mean? If for many years the head of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture would be active policies of the Polish People's Party, then the entire agency would be politicized and connected with PSL and therefore would not register any wheels other than those that support PSL? This is some kind of ridiculous thesis. We enjoy a great deal of social support, but I do not assume that we will rule until the end of the world, and therefore the change will also take place in the agency. So it is incomprehensible to suggest political reasons for the registration process. Madam Moderne, I quote: she is afraid that the circles of the country hostess will rise like mushrooms after the rain. Is that bad? It would be very good if they were made like mushrooms after the rain, because in many villages there are no circles of country hostels. There are regions in Poland where there are only single circles in the communes, and yet in every village, there are people living in every county who have their problems, their joys and their aspirations. Building the Sołec community, also on the basis of the rural hostels' circles, would be advisable. So not only will I not worry about this excess, but I will be very happy if these circles of country housewives arise much more than they currently exist. You, too, have said that it is not the housewives' circle that should decide, but that there should be programmes within which these wheels could apply for funds. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Until now, they could not apply because they had no legal personality, could not even be evaluated in terms of their activity or offer, which they could submit by applying for external funds for their activities. We're just trying to get them to run, apply, and be evaluated. It was emphasized that the former form, which was to be some attempt to circumvent this subordinateness given by the Law of 1982 under the National Union of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations, was a normal association, but you noticed, Mr Owl also stressed that it was a form of impairment. [[That's his name in the bill...]] We also believe that this form is quite a flawed structure, so we want to propose a form. not defective, but one that will have a number of positive conditions. We assume that in each village according to these rules there will be one wheel of country hostels, because it would be strange if the community, within some artificial divisions or internal conflicts, generated more circles of country hostels. We certainly will not encourage that. The open form of membership of the cooperative makes it possible for the next members to join this circle even if the circle is set up. It does not seem that a larger number of rural hostels should be created in one village. Mrs Okła-Drewnowicz asked whether we should not proceed as quickly as she called it, over subsidies to farmers. I do not know exactly what farmers' payments are about, because, as a rule, the payments are negotiated and subject to the procedure, the deadlines come, they will be paid. And if she meant, I don't know, the efficiency of transferring funds under drought aid to farmers, then I will remind you that when you did not want to develop this thread, you were in charge of the party, for many months it was necessary to wait for farmers to submit applications, and only then the payment of the aid was started. On the other hand, we pay the aid immediately, even if in some municipalities the end of the estimation is applied. We make payments already where these applications have been worked out and went to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In this regard, I think that talking about the procedure of some subsidies in this case was perhaps a slip of the tongue. I'll answer specific questions. Mrs Sobecka: Will only registered housewives' circles have legal personality? Yeah, it's only gonna be registered, registered. Once entered in the register, they shall have legal personality. What grants - Mr Pyzik - have been described in the OSR? We believe that to begin with, these few thousand zlotys between 3 and 5 thousand. Depending on the size of the wheel, it is an amount that is not excessive, but sufficient to start the activity in the wheel, which would only start with its activity. The OSR envisages a two-year financial impact. I would like to remind you that there will be parliamentary elections in 2019, so after the elections we will be able to add much more to 2020 and beyond, but for the time being we are merely defining for those years which are still within this term of office of the Sejm and the government chosen by the parliamentary majority. Why membership only in one circle? That is also Mr Pyzik's question. Because the wheel is to perform a territorially limited function to one village. There are wider organisations and they can be owned and operated e.g. above its own communal or regional village, but it is difficult to imagine the activity of a member of the village hostess's circle, who is also a member of another group of rural hostesses, and sometimes competes in the same programmes because they submit applications to them. Rather, we encourage this - and it is also included in the Act - to create associations of the circles of rural hostels in order to achieve goals greater than just the interests of one village. There's a whole chapter in the bill that talks about it. Mr Rzońc resembles infamous situations a few years ago, because I do not know why Mr Maliszewski's memory applies only to the last years, not for example. 2011 and the then cases where the tax authorities punished women for trying to sell culinary products or something else. I would like to see that, regardless of whether it is the current opposition or coalition, or whether it will be the other way around, such situations do not take place. Only that this is not due to good will and the blinding of the eye, but to the legal provisions, so we create these laws so that there is no longer such a situation that someone in the future, while respecting, to say the least, sometimes excessively, the laws, will punish these ladies who often put great passion, love and their activity into the articles of their hands. Yes, women will be able to do business, they will be able to sell everything they can produce, they will also be able to sell it on these different festivals or hand it over as a gift. Will the number of rural housewives increase? I'd be very happy for you. I would be very happy if this law increased the number of rural hostels' circles, because it would have a huge impact on development and the cultural one, and the economic one in all these towns. We also respect that there are experienced wheels, circles that have been doing well for many years, also using these formulas of assistance that occurred in some voivodships, e.g. in Małopolska, and in other voivodships. These wheels may not need much to tell and advise, they may be moderators for other neighbouring wheels, while those who are just about to be created, who will only learn their activities and their capabilities, will be assisted by the Plenipotentiaries of the restructuring and modernisation agencies, who will help to understand the various offers that are on the market. The Act also provides - I, by shortening my first speech, did not mention this - that the boards of the rings of rural hostess in these matters concerning the process of organizing, registering, but also subsequent activities will be provided with free legal assistance. This is quite important aid, because board members will be able to resolve their legal doubts by using state-paid legal assistance. The financial implications are described in the OSR. I am convinced that the existing hostel circles, seeing the benefits of the provisions of this law, will want to benefit from this, will have 6 months to do so. If they do not take such a decision, which will require the amendment of the existing statute to the provisions of the Act, the democratic state will be able to exist on the basis of the existing legislation, in accordance with the rule of law. I think I've answered all your questions, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u526	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u527	I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the government draft law on the circles of rural hostesses. It is indicated that the KGW are one of the oldest forms of social organizations that operate today in Poland. In many places the Polish KGW was a pillar of local communities, contributing significantly to the formation of rural public space. This is still often the case, but unfortunately - without taking any credit and hard work - KGW are increasingly symbolic. Over the years, the KGW have been effectively supporting our small homelands by participating in the co-organization of schools or voluntary firefighters. KGW took an active part in the education of rural communities in the field of e.g. health protection and support people in difficult situations in their daily responsibilities, such as childcare and household work. Today, the KGW is facing increasing problems, which include, above all, the lack of support from the authorities and the lack of new regulations for the KGW. This is due to the rapid loss of KGW's position in the new institutional structure. The proposed law aims to formalise the functioning of the KGW through the possibility of entering a given circle in the National Register of Rural Houses kept by ARiMR. Under the draft law, the KGW will be promoted to rank with legal personality, self-government, social organisations of village residents, independent of other socio-occupational organisations of farmers, as well as government administration and local self-government units. The project also provides for the possibility of joining and forming KGW unions. Once registered in the KGW register, it will acquire legal personality. This will solve many problems that the KGW has been facing for years. Formization will allow e.g. the application for financial grants for the activities of the KGW. This is not possible now, and local authorities also do not have the possibility to account for the financial support granted to the KGW. The Kukiz Club15 submitted a similar bill aimed at regulating the situation of the rural hostels' circles and removing the remains of the communist public order from the content of the amended laws. The project was coordinated by Elżbieta Zielińska. Our laws - the laws favorable for Poles - should also be adopted, but it often happens that they go into the freezer. Finally, we are pleased that some of the solutions proposed by Kukiz'15 are being implemented. It doesn't matter to us whether the X or Y draft is adopted. It is important for us that the law serves the citizens of Poland. In this case, the proposed normative arrangements should undoubtedly contribute to strengthening and renewing the position of the KGW in the institutional structure. I recommend Kukiz 15 to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u528	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the circles of rural hostesses in print No 2856 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 min 02 to hour 1 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 2 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, or actually, when you look at the clock, it was yesterday, an extraordinary event took place, namely the solemn funeral of Adm. Joseph Unrug and his wife Sophia. The service which preceded the funeral was celebrated in the Navy church in Gdynia-Oksywi, in the church of Our Lady of Czestochowa. Commander of the Polish fleet in the period II of the Republic of Poland and Commander of Coast Defence in September 1939 adm. Józef Unrug remained a supporter of ruthless discipline in the memory of the subordinates. He was a thorough and meticulous commander, and he was also a tough, uncompromising and gifted person with the gift of predicting events. Today, 45 years after his death, his remains and his spouses were sent to Poland, because in his will he stated, he warned that his ashes could return to the country only when his three subordinates, Navy officers, defenders of Poland, as well as him, defenders of the Polish Coast in 1939, commanders Stanisław Myszkowski, Jerzy Staniewicz and Zbigniew Przybyszewski, who were sentenced to so-called. The commanders' trial, in a trial forged by the Soviet forces. During the funeral of Adm. Józef Unrug and his wife Zofia, the President of the Republic of Poland spoke, who said significant words: we place one of the last stones on the foundation of a real free Poland, on which it will be possible to build its great building; not on some rotten beirons, but on the great stones of our history of the last century, centuries since Poland regained independence in 1918. Also to the sailors, but not only, you addressed the President's words concerning today, a great day for the Republic of Poland and for everyone, but above all for the Navy. Your commander is coming back," said the president. - You are sailors, soldiers of truly free Poland. Two announcements were also made. One is an announcement concerning the return to Gdynia of the Navy Command of the Republic of Poland, where this command was located before the war. And the second point is the issue of modernising the Navy. And here I will quote the President: I believe that we will be able to build the Polish Navy in a wise way in the next few years as part of the modernization of the Polish army. It is a great and difficult work, but I believe that we will proudly implement it and successfully for the safety of the Republic of Poland and for the security of our entire nation, but above all for the glory of the Polish weapon and for the memory of its great heroes, on which, as far as the Polish Navy is concerned, you stand Adm. Józef Unrug, Polish sailor by choice, great patriot, great hero of our nation. Coffins with the remains of the fleet commander and the Polish Coast Defence Commander in September 1939 adm. Józef Unrug and his wife Sophia were buried in memory quarters at the Navy cemetery in Gdynia. Glory to the defenders of our homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow, or today, because it is already after midnight, a citizens' project will be discussed to amend the law on the fight against infectious diseases and infections in people, which actually introduces a European standard, which introduces a rule that applies in 20 civilized European countries, which is that parents should decide whether they will vaccinate their children or not. It is a matter of preventive vaccination, not of public vaccination, which will, of course, remain in force. This project, of course, doesn't change that. There has been a great deal of controversy about preventive vaccination and there is no way to discuss them all here. I wanted to focus on one extremely clear problem that concerns this issue. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, we hear very often that vaccines are the best medical means tested. We often hear such opinions that vaccines are extremely well tested and there is no doubt about their safety and efficacy. What does it turn out to be, High Izbo? The Minister of Health asked the Minister for Public Information about this matter and received a reply. Both writings are very short, so I will read them because they are extremely important in the context of this conversation. Request for public information to the Minister of Health. In view of the fact that there is no body in Poland that collects and could make available data on the morbidity and mortality of Poles due to temporary vaccination - up to 4 weeks after vaccination - I request that the following public information be made available to me: firstly, copies of documents held by the Ministry of Health, containing actual statistics on the morbidity and mortality of Poles vaccinated and not vaccinated, which show that in statistical terms the benefits of the preventive vaccination programme outweigh the risks associated with the vaccination of children; then copies of documents held by the Ministry of Health, which, based on the actual statistics on the morbidity and mortality of Poles vaccinated and not vaccinated, show that in statistical terms of the health condition of Poles vaccinated according to the preventive vaccination programme are better or at least not worse than the health status of Poles, as reported, of those refusing to receive preventive vaccination; or I request the identification of the authority, office which has such documents and could make them available. In response, Minister 25 September this year informs: Dear ladies, in response to a request for public information under the provisions of the Act, etc., I kindly provide explanations on this matter. Firstly, the Ministry of Health did not develop studies containing the data indicated in the letter. The principle of maintaining all preventive vaccinations in the preventive vaccination programme is dictated by the demands of experts and recommendations issued by the Sanitary and Epidemiological Council at the Chief Sanitary Inspector and the Paediatric Expert Team. It's a protection vaccination program at the Ministry of Health. The National Sanitary Inspection shall supervise the implementation of compulsory preventive vaccinations. Secondly, the Ministry of Health is not in possession of the documents and information requested. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Minister for Health does not have studies on the effectiveness and safety of preventive vaccination in children and is unable to identify any authority of the State which has such studies. There's just no such thing as research. That's the biggest myth about preventive vaccination in children. Since there are no such tests, vaccinations are actually carried out on the basis of a medical experiment. The Polish Constitution clearly states that no one can be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without their consent. In other words, such consent for such vaccinations is necessary, necessary. Therefore, it is necessary to ask the Minister of Health whether he has - whether any authority or state office in Poland has - the consent of all the vaccinated, in this case parents of these children, to use such an experiment on these children, since there are no studies that can confirm what the Gazet Wyborcza asked, namely the effectiveness of these vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is very serious and I hope that the discussion around it will be based on facts and hard data, not on myths and ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u532	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u533	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I've been mobilized. the precedent that happened just now in the courtroom when the marshal refused to allow me to correct my misunderstood statement. I think I've fulfilled my terms because my name has come up, but the Marshal has the right not to agree to the corrigendum. As a private Member, I have humbly come down, but there is such a thing as statements, and here, with these statements, I would like to express my concern that I could not correct that opinion. As there is no longer a Member who misunderstood my statement, I will use the statement and say a little bit about the rural plan prepared by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. In this plan for the village there are among others. This bill we've been debating about, the circles of the country housewives. First of all, we need to repair Polish agriculture - and we repair Polish agriculture after many years - which has been destroyed. Among other things, Polish processing has been completely sold out. We do not have Polish processing at the moment. The fact that soft fruit prices are so low is due to the fact that we do not have Polish processing, the fact that previous governments have sold Polish processing. Therefore, the Minister of Agriculture announced the creation of a holding company, which will slowly take over Polish processing, will allow the creation of our Polish plants, which will buy fruit and which will not allow companies, as at the moment, to decide on prices and be able to exploit Polish agriculture. The second important thing is to shorten the way from the field to the table, because this way from the field to the table is very long and this is the reason for this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, if the potato in Sieradz costs 10 and 20 gr, and the same potato in the supermarket costs 2,20 and 2,40 PLN, then who earns, Polish farmer or concern? We need to do everything we can to shorten this route, therefore the Direct Selling Act, so we are proceeding at this meeting urgently, quickly, a law that allows a Polish farmer to sell to shops, to sell to restaurants, to sell his processed and unprocessed products to cafeterias - up to 40 thousand. without tax, above the amount of 40 thousand. With a 2% small tax. It's very important to just shorten this road from the field to the table. Increase aid for agricultural fuel. This is also very important because it is the support of Polish agriculture. And, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, it's also a matter of drought. For the first time it happened that it was in advance, from the government, from the minister the signal was to intervene, so that as soon as possible in the municipalities the damage would be estimated, and not the way it has been, completely the opposite - it was farmers who demanded that the government pay compensation. And it was going like nosebleeds. This time it was the minister who teleconferencing with the voivodships and asked the voivodships to intervene with the mayors, so that the drought losses could be assessed as soon as possible and be paid out. Mr. Marshal! For the first time 1.5 billion PLN is prepared to pay Polish farmer compensation for losses caused by drought, caused by the drought that was this year. Such an amount has never been intended to help a Polish farmer who has suffered from drought. Healthy Polish food too - the idea is to introduce a protein program so that we can recover our protein, our native protein, so that we do not have to use soybeans from GMOs. And, Mr. Marshal, I stress that the law on the circles of rural hostesses is part of this programme, the plan for the village, in order to rebuild the Polish village, because, as Prime Minister Morawiecki of this speaker said, will not be strong Polish economy if there is no strong Polish agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u534	Thank you. I am very pleased that the Member has exercised his right of order to make a statement. This is the moment. On the other hand, I would like to correct the myth among Members - it is not enough that your name has been mentioned by someone to correct it. It's not enough. [[But it was misunderstood, which is why I wanted to correct it.]] Please, Mr... I just don't think it's misunderstood, sir. On that basis, we could run polemics for another three hours. [[That's why with humility...]] Yes, sir. Good night. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u535	Dear Marshal, I would like to speak in the Seym of the Republic of Poland about a very important, big event that took place yesterday, 2 October 2018. Well, 20 years ago, the State Higher Vocational School in Krosno, a small but important city, sometimes called the small city of Cracow, was in operation. In the Krosno in Podkarpacie just met people who co-created the State Higher Vocational School. I was at this ceremony and therefore I dare to tell about it in the Seym, while reminding the characters of the first rectors of this 20th anniversary, professors of Strutynski, Gonet, Gruchała, Przebinda. Professor Przebinda, the current rector, gave a very humanistic paper devoted to the 20th anniversary of the State Higher Vocational School in Krosno. In my opinion, he didn't miss out on anyone and anything, he appreciated everyone who co-created this school, and everyone who was at that ceremony yesterday. Krosno, a town once a voivodship, at some point stopped being a voivodship. I had the pleasure of being Krosno Voivodeship, knowing that there was a great administrative reform coming in, resulting in Krosno disappearing as a voivodeship, other voivodships will rise, there will be 16 of them - from the old 49 will just remain 16. And then we thought together with many very important people of the then world of politics, economy, the social world about creating such a school in Krosno. I would like to recall today the names of those who helped me, then the humble Krosno voivode, to create this school. It was sleep. Ms Grażyna Gęsicka, Mr Stanisław Zając, Deputy Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Mirosław Handke, Professor, Minister of National Education, Chancellor Franciszek Tereszkiewicz. Later, the idea was supported by the then president Krosna Roman Zimka. There must have been a lot of people who supported this idea. Yesterday, this anniversary was celebrated by many good people, very beautiful meetings, lectures devoted to the 20th anniversary. It turns out that a small city or a medium-sized city can also work well for the development of academic environments. Yesterday, during this ceremony in Krosno, there was also a representative of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, Mr Gowin, Minister Piotr Müller, who handed over a cheque of 23 102 thousand. zł for investments with a beautiful note that the rector will know what to do with these measures. I believe that this approach of authority, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, deserves attention, recognition. These funds come from the state budget and are dedicated to a modest, but really great school, which allows young people from surrounding villages, districts of the former Krosnieńskie voivodship, and the present Podkarpackie voivodship, to be educated in very good conditions. This has been underlined: under very good conditions. I would also like to thank the great Polish universities: Jagiellonian University, Górniczo-Hutnicza Academy, Rzeszow University of Technology and Rzeszów University for their considerable help in building, co-building scientific staff of this Krosno University. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to invite you to come and visit this environment and see how a good school works in a small town.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-02-sejm-69-1.u536	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 3 October 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. Have a good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 26]]
