ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Arkadiusz Marchewka, Piotr Olszówka and Arthur Sobonia to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Piotr Olszówka and Artur Soboń will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Arkadiusz Carrot. I consider the minutes of the 57th session of the Sejm to be adopted against the non-rejection of objections. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - collective management of copyright and related rights, - the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Designs are 2232 and 2233 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The National Defence Commission submitted a report on the draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through that territory. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the current item from the agenda: First reading of the Government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws, print No 2216. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion on government information on the Charter for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In addition, the Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports on: - a draft resolution on the common agricultural policy of the European Union, - ratify the agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention adopted a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the activities of the Ministry of National Education for the reconstruction and development of vocational training, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. The proposal is formally submitted by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I submit a formal request for an adjournment, a convening of the Seniors Convention and an attempt to decide on the removal from the agenda of the committee's report on the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews during World War II, print No 1947. Mr. Marshal! Poles who saved Jews during World War II are our heroes, people of the highest trial who deserve to remember, respect, monuments, museums and their national holiday, because they are an example to others. These people deserve dignity and dignity, and there is no doubt about it. I think each of you has the same opinion. Standing here, I'm basically raising my hand for each one of these people. On the other hand, this law of President Andrzej Duda, which is being prosecuted in the context of a gigantic diplomatic, historical and moral scandal, is unfortunately nothing but an attempt to make the heroes of the current political policy instrument. I would ask that we reflect on this and withdraw this item from the agenda. This will be an expression of our respect for these people - people who deserve dignity and respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u3	Thank you, Member. I would like to inform the High House about this issue, because it was indeed discussed at the Senior Convention meeting. And the information is as follows: I asked the Convention... Since there was no unanimous opinion on this issue, I did not decide to withdraw this item from the agenda. On the other hand, we agreed that I would consult with the President and we would examine the process of working on the bill and later on the bill, see if we could make it to 17 March. Because in the project this day is fixed on March 17th, vacathio legis law is 14 days, but vacathio legis can, right... This is where the Sejm and the Senate make their decision. On the other hand, I know that today, too, this issue will be dealt with by the cultural committee, whose meeting will probably start at an hour. 13.30. Until 3 p.m. I'm supposed to receive an answer from the President. I would therefore ask the Member to withdraw her request for a break because we will not resolve this issue by means of a formal proposal. At the Seniors Convention meeting, I said that if these consultations were to be held, so to speak, finalised and going any way, then if there was a proposal for a photo on the agenda, I would call the Seniors Convention and ask for it. So that I would ask the Member to withdraw this proposal. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll take the opposite if you don't mind.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Marshal. The Member may wish to withdraw the proposal. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Wait a minute, I want to speak.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! I'll withdraw the motion, then. I very much want the debate on this issue to be genuine. I really want us to talk about this first and foremost with the Righteous among the Nations. We're gonna want to invite them here to the Seym. Really, ladies and gentlemen, let's bow down to this project. Let's not make this a political fight... [[Then don't.]] ...because it hurts all of us, really all of us, and the whole Polish nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u5	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you that the cultural committee will take care of this case and the bill. In the next few hours, we will also have the answer that we have to wait for the president. Then, on the basis of this two information, the Sejm will make a decision. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 13, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on National Defence, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 4:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 17. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Defence of Polish Self-Government - h. 12, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Oncology and Parliamentary Group for public health - hour 13, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Polish Airmen - h.m. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u7	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory (prints No. 2157 and 2228). I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory, prints no. 2157 and 2228. The aim of the bill is to create a legal regulation enabling the International Command of the Northern-East Multinational Division, which is to be established under the provisions of the NATO Summit in Warsaw in order to strengthen the eastern flank of the Alliance, with weapons on the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The project serves the implementation of the request for harmonisation of arms of foreign troops stationed on the territory of the Republic of Poland, which was raised during meetings and reconnaissance meetings in the framework of the organisation of the Multinational Command of the North-East Division. There is currently no such regulation in the Polish system of law. The draft law in which the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through the territory of the Republic of Poland added to the work in the committee. 13a, according to which at the request of the competent military authorities of the party sending foreign troops may be equipped with weapons and ammunition constituting the armed forces of the Republic of Poland. According to the Legislative Bureau, further details required the mode of handing over weapons by the Polish side. It should be specified on the Polish side by the competent authority on the transfer of troops and ammunition to foreign troops, and also by the form of transfer should be specified. According to the Legislative Bureau, the transfer should take the form of an administrative decision. This form should be specified in the Act. In accordance with the draft law passed by the committee, the Minister for National Defence shall, by decision, with respect to the provisions on the protection of classified information, determine the number and type of weapons to be equipped with foreign troops. The provisions in force in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland apply to the equipment of foreign troops for ammunition and registration of issued ammunition and weapons. No request for a public hearing has been made. As a result of the committee's work, the draft law was adopted unanimously, with amendments taking into account the comments of the Legislative Bureau. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] And I ask your fellow Members to move the talks to colloquials.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, at the NATO Summit in Warsaw it was decided to establish the Command of the Multinational North-East Division. As a result, the issue of uniforming the arms of foreign military personnel stationed in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which are to serve in command, has emerged. Hence, an additional regulation was proposed by amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The new standardization will allow, among others. avoid additional costs of adapting warehouse infrastructure to the requirements of storing various types of weapons and ammunition used in foreign troops, and directed to service in our country. The projector, i.e. the Polish government, and on his behalf the Minister of National Defence, proposed a solution enabling the Polish military personnel stationed in the territory of the Republic to be equipped with Polish weapons, both in command and in the headquarters and in the operational unit. This weapon will be transferred only at the request of the military authorities of the party sending allies, so not in every case their presence in Poland. At the stage of the work in the Committee on National Defence, a government project was completed with provisions requiring the Minister of National Defence to determine the number and type of weapons in which allies' troops will be equipped and to record such weapons and ammunition. This registration will be drawn up in accordance with Polish regulations. This supplement allows monitoring of the circulation of Polish military equipment made available to soldiers and allies. The Parliamentary Club supports the draft amendment proposed by the Committee on National Defence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u11	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Sejm has agreed that it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The amendment of the Act on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory results from the appointment of, among others. the headquarters of the Northern-East Multinational Division in Elbląg. The Elbląg-based division will gradually take over the tasks related to the new responsibilities that are currently being carried out by the Multinational Northwest Corps based in Szczecin, as well as certain tasks that are carried out by the Brunssum Joint Forces Command in the Netherlands. The installation of the Multinational North-East Division in Elbląg, together with the decision of the United States to transfer the command element to Poznań, confirm NATO's determination to ensure the security system of the eastern NATO flank. It is worth recalling that in 2014 after the Newport summit it was decided to strengthen the eastern NATO flank and organize the NATO Summit in Warsaw. These actions were initiated by President Bronisław Komorowski and Minister of National Defence Tomasz Siemoniak. It's worth remembering. Finally, in 2016 the NATO Summit in Warsaw confirmed the findings of Newport. Minister, we would like to ask for information on the stage of the work related to the creation of the Northern-East Multinational Division in Elbląg. Have the operational capacity envisaged been achieved? We would also like to know what was the reason for the resignation of the head of the division of the multi-national colonel. Robert Orlowski. Finally: How many soldiers and of which NATO countries are currently serving in the multi-national division of Elbląg? Minister, we would also like to know whether the creation of a multi-national division in Elbląg is taking place independently of the operation of Command 16. The Pomeranian Mechanized Division in Elbląg or at its expense. There is information about the command of this division: 16th Pomeranian division, that there are about 50% of the population. employment. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The bill under examination assumes that soldiers of foreign troops residing in Poland will be equipped with weapons and ammunition constituting the weapons of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, we would like to know how many soldiers these weapons will be delivered and what the cost of this operation will be. We'd also like to know where the weapons will be stored for security reasons. The final decision will be made by my club after having obtained an answer to the questions raised during this debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u13	Thank you, sir. Mr Bartosz Józwiak and Mr Jaskoła will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. Which of your fellow Members is the first? Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory, print No 2157. It's a very concise bill, containing only two short articles. In principle, this amendment is limited only to the addition to the existing law of one article, Article. 13a, which states that at the request of the competent military authorities of the party sending foreign troops can be equipped with weapons and ammunition which constitute the weapons of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The decision on the number and the type of weapon in which foreign soldiers will be equipped is to be made by the Minister of National Defence, and this weapon, as well as its ammunition, is to be recorded in accordance with Polish law. These are the amendments that were made during the work on this project in committee. Ladies and gentlemen! During the creation of the Multinational Command of the North-East Division, the theme of the unification of arms of foreign military personnel stationed in the Republic of Poland and intended to serve within this division emerged. This resulted in the conclusion that there are no certain legal regulations enabling international division personnel to be equipped with weapons on the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. That was a pretty important shortcoming. The answer to this problem is this amendment which allows for a systematic solution to the problem of supplying international personnel with weapons provided by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Polish today as well as in the future. This amendment will also avoid generating additional costs associated with adapting warehouse infrastructure to the requirements related to the storage of various types of weapons or ammunition used by foreign soldiers, which will be directed to Poland for service in this division. Such requirements are applied when this weapon is an external element and is imported here. To sum up, this basically short amendment solves a rather important formal problem in our opinion and also standardizes the important issue of military weapons of the eastern NATO flank. The Members' Club supports the legislative changes contained in the amendment and will vote in favour after the discussions that took place in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u15	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola. [[There isn't.]] There's no envoy. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It cannot be concealed that the safety of Poland and Poles is a priority issue which should be implemented by all of us regardless of political or ideological differences between us in order to increase security objectively. Poland in the international arena, including the status of our Armed Forces, as well as troops of allied states, which during their stay are concerned with the discussed bill. The draft law on the amendment of the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory, presented by the Prime Minister, is introduced after the article. Article 13 13a, which allows foreign soldiers to be equipped with weapons and ammunition, which is the weapon of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. I would like to point out that, during the work of the committee, mouths were added. 2 and 3, which clarify the manner in which the transfer of arms and ammunition is to take place, namely the issue of a decision by the Minister of National Defence, the preservation of the provisions on the protection of classified information, the determination of the number and type of weapons and the provision on the application of the provisions in force in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland for the recording of issued weapons and ammunition. The following paragraphs allow for better control over the issue of weapons, leading according to the Modern Club to transparent, transparent and correct proceding, a procedurally correct achievement of the goal, i.e. to equip foreign soldiers with weapons and ammunition from our resources. Given that the North-East Multinational Division Command is being established in Poland, in accordance with the provisions of the NATO Summit, we aim to harmonise the arms of foreign troops stationed in our country. On the basis of the justification for the project, there is a lack of appropriate regulation that will enable the army to supply weapons in our military resources. When we examine the content of the proposed provisions, we conclude that their content is not questionable, because the wording used in them is simple, clear and follows the request for the conciseness and clarity of the legal provisions by using the expression: foreign military soldiers, which is the legal definition set out in Article. 2 point 2 of the Act of 23 September 1999 on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and their movement through this territory, which allows us to maintain the semantic coherence of used returns at the statutory level. Referring to the current geopolitical situation of Poland and to recent events, among others. The NATO Summit, which took place in Warsaw, the proposed amendment is needed as much as possible to rule out the current lack of regulation that allows foreign soldiers to be equipped with weapons and ammunition in the armed forces of the Republic of Poland. The Modern Posel Club expresses its support for the proposed amendment and will vote in favour of it because it makes it possible to increase the sense of security of Poles and facilitate the cooperation of NATO troops within our country, eliminating the gap in Polish legislation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory according to the club of the Polish People's Party is without reservation. This is a necessary law, which regulates, among others. possession of weapons and ammunition by foreign troops stationed in the Republic of Poland. The Polish People's Party will therefore support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u19	Thank you very much. That concludes making statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Mr Czesław Mrozek, the Civic Platform Club. After the first question, I close the list of speakers. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Congratulations to your colleague at the National Defence Parliamentary Committee. I wish you good luck in this important activity for our country. I believe you will also work well with the Parliament's defence committee. [[Applause]] On the other hand, Minister, this regulation concerns the equipment of foreign soldiers' weapons. Since 2014 we have a large number of NATO-Wskie soldiers in Poland. The summit in Newport, the summit in Warsaw and the formation of a multi-national division. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this command is created at the expense of the 16th division of mechanized command. As Mr Plocke said, the information they are getting to us indicates that the staff in the 16th Division Command is at 50%. This division is basically [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion, he cannot perform either training or combat tasks. I'm asking you to tell me why you were doing this to form a multi-national division. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u21	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also begin by congratulating a colleague from Radom land who became Minister. I believe that the arms industry will be... [[In good hands.]] ...was developing on Radom soil. Yeah, but the outside situation, the world isn't easy. She's difficult and restless. Our government, to the extent of evil, spares us not only conflicts with the European Union but also with our strategic allies. Therefore, these residual information that reaches us about the creation of the Northern-East Multinational Division Command does not bring us peace, but concerns. Is this going to be Minister Macierewicz's next fiasco? I would also like to ask what the reactions of our strategic allies to this kind of divisional creation are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u23	Thank you. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u24	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you something very important from the point of view of creating a multi-national command support division. I asked that during the committee meeting, but Mr President made it impossible for us to hold a substantive debate in this regard. I wanted to ask you about the Multinational North East Corps Command Support Brigade. Command is located in Stargard, battalions in Walcz, in the garrison of Walcz. I was asking about the essence of creating a command support division. Isn't there going to be a similar situation on the basis of the brigade, as we have just heard, as regards the creation of this division based on a unit in Elbląg? Therefore, Minister, we may be able to provide an answer so that we can [[♪ The bell ♪]] They were calm that the support team with Stargard command was safe with regard to her future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u25	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Jach, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased that all the clubs have promised to support this bill, which is the next step in meeting the expectations of the representatives of our allies who are stationed in our country. That's good news. On the other hand, as regards complaining about the Elbląg Multinational Division, I have a question to ask the Minister: Is it true, Minister, that the armed forces at the moment are most lacking in junior officers, that there are dramatically few of them, and these are the events of the previous 8 and 10 years, when it was limited to admission to military higher schools [[♪ The bell ♪]] candidates, and the number of junior officers leaving these universities was definitely, catastrophically too small? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u27	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these words of appreciation and I am counting - what I want to say is really sincere - on a very deepened, substantive cooperation within the Committee on National Defence, the subcommittee, as well as here, in Parliament, because we are opening a new chapter and we would like, however, the national defence rather to remain outside of this acute political dispute, because it is in the interest of all of us on the right, on the left, and from the centre, to ensure the security of Poland and Poles, our fellow nationals. I am glad that today we are discussing amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland, because it may be one of those few laws which we will adopt over any political divisions, unanimously, because this is indeed a particularly important thing for the operation of the Northern-East Multinational Command, but not only. Ladies and gentlemen! The issues you raised in your questions. I would like to meet at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, probably in secret mode, and discuss whether it is the functioning of the command created in Elbląg, Stargard or Szczecin, whether it is at all about the presence of troops within the North Atlantic Alliance in the Republic of Poland, because there is a lot of information, and as the Ministry of National Defence we will be happy to share with you and maybe we will come to common conclusions, so that this model, this system, will continue to improve further. There was a question about the 16th division mechanized. Originally, it was an idea, but after three months, it was abandoned. The 16th division is, functions, works and nothing unusual happens to it. Gentlemen, you asked about the Northern-East Multinational Division Command. Forming is estimated at about 90% today. The process that has begun, we want to complete the full certification by the end of 2018, and I am convinced that this deadline will be met in order to meet our ally commitments and the North Atlantic Alliance arrangements. As far as staffing is concerned, that's about 300 jobs. At the moment, we can talk about engaging the forces of our allies at a level of about 10%. That is to say, at the moment, we can identify 30 jobs that are assigned to our allies and which will also be filled by them. It's all liquid, it's all changing, but I'm sure the next few months will show us at what stage we're coming to the end, and then we'll say that command is already formed. As I say: I am open to an in-depth discussion, I am also open to your proposals, your ideas. I hope that we will discuss this at the defence committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u29	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act (Prints 2111 and 2150). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill amending the Social Assistance Act 2111, and the report by the Commission is in print 2150. The above project entered the Sejm on 5 December 2017 and was addressed to the first reading in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 8 December 2017. At its meeting on 10 January 2018, the Commission unanimously welcomed this proposal. The proposed regulation aims to eliminate the gap in the possibility for persons who, due to homelessness, are unable to receive care services. During the work on the draft regulation of the Minister for the Family, Labour and Social Policy on standards of accommodation, shelters for homeless and heating NGOs highlighted the need to introduce an additional type of temporary shelter for homeless persons unable to self-service but not requiring 24-hour care, but only temporary assistance to meet daily needs and hygiene needs. The proposed amendment to the Act aims at providing support to those requiring care services, and is intended to prevent situations where such facilities could be targeted by persons requiring more specialised assistance, which may be carried out in specialised care units or in a care and care establishment or a care centre. However, the project provides for an exception for homeless people who require 24/7 care and have a decision to send social assistance to their home: in particularly justified cases, a homeless person may be sent to a shelter for a period of waiting to be placed in the DPS for no more than 4 months. In the case of shelters for homeless people with care services, a homeless person will not have to sign a social contract in particularly justified cases in order to be sent to that establishment. The project also provides a solution to prevent situations where, in order to avoid any attempt to allow the voivodeship to operate a 24-hour care facility for elderly, sick or disabled persons, operators could be impersonated as shelters for homeless people with care services. It is foreseen that only persons may be present in such a facility on the basis of a decision to grant a temporary place in a hostel with care services for homeless persons or a decision to grant a temporary place in a hostel for homeless persons issued by the municipality. Entities operating this type of facility will not be able to accept the charges under civil law agreements. The project amends the formula from the voivode's records to the register of temporary shelters. It is the municipality that reports the voivodeship of temporary refuge in individual establishments, and not - so far - operators leading them. As I said at the outset, the proposed changes were widely consulted with non-governmental organisations, and the committee at its meeting unanimously gave a positive opinion on the above provisions and requested that the draft law be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u31	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u32	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honoured to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Social Assistance Act, submitted together with the draft implementing act, in accordance with prints 2111 and 2150. It should be noted first of all that the project aims at clarifying and clarifying the current social assistance rules, especially as regards temporary shelter facilities for homeless persons, including the introduction of an additional type of facility, i.e. shelters for homeless people with care services. According to the project, it will be a facility for people who, due to age, illness or disability, need partial care or assistance from third parties to meet the most important needs of their lives, but do not require 24/7 care. It will provide temporary shelter together with services aimed at strengthening social activity in order to achieve life independence and a way out of homelessness. It is extremely important that these changes have been introduced as a result of comments from NGOs and local authorities. The project provides for the employment of social workers and carers for shelters for homeless people and shelters with care services where higher qualifications will be required by law due to the specific needs of persons requiring care services. Caregiver's qualifications as a nurse, a paramedic, a social worker, an elderly person's guardian, a disabled person's assistant, an environmental worker, a healthcare professional or documented at least one year's professional experience in the provision of services in this field may be provided in these care facilities. In addition, the project clarifies the provisions relating to these facilities, accommodation and heating rooms, implementing the arrangements resulting from the current Regulation of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of 28 April 2017 on accommodation standards, shelters for homeless and heating rooms. The project also details the regulations concerning the register, the data collected in that register and their updating. Recognising that the proposed changes are expected, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Law on the revision of the Social Assistance Act and will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u33	Thank you, Member. Mr Ewa Kołodziej from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Social Assistance, prints No 2111 and 2150. The revised draft Social Assistance Act is a way out to meet the expectations of local governments and NGOs, as it aims to systematise and define the existing social assistance legislation on the functioning of shelter facilities for homeless people. The draft law contains two fundamental changes to existing legislation. Firstly, it introduces a new type of facility aimed at providing temporary shelter to homeless people unable to self-service, but requiring not 24/7 care, but only partial temporary assistance in meeting daily life needs and hygiene care. The proposed amendment aims to bridge the gap in legislation in obtaining assistance that prevents people from receiving care services because of their homelessness. Until now, the directory of forms of shelter for municipalities was limited to three facilities: accommodation facilities, shelters for homeless people and heating rooms. A new, fourth type of facility is intended for homeless people who, due to age, illness or disability, require partial assistance but do not require 24/7 care. Hostels for homeless people with care services will provide temporary shelter and care services, as well as work to strengthen social activity, exit from homelessness and gain self-reliance. According to this type of facility, people requiring specialized medical care or 24-hour care provided by care facilities and social services homes will not be able to be targeted. However, the project provides for an exception for homeless people who require 24/7 care and have a decision to send social assistance to their home. In particularly justified cases, a homeless person who already has a decision to send social assistance home may be placed in a shelter for homeless people with care services for a period of waiting to be placed in a social assistance home, but for no longer than 4 months. This period was indicated as necessary for the municipality to provide adequate care to a homeless person in the event of a queue to a social assistance home. During these 4 months, the municipality will be obliged to find a suitable home for the homeless in which they will be able to obtain the professional care provided for them. However, we are concerned that the source of funding for new types of institutions is not indicated. We hope that, in view of their formation, the municipalities will not be subject to additional costs and that the authors of the amendment will find a way to compensate local authorities for the costs of maintaining new facilities and the costs that this amendment brings for local governments. We therefore expect precise information on these issues soon, and we are looking forward to developing fair conditions for cooperation between the government and the local government. Secondly, the proposed bill introduces an amendment to allow for an exception to the rule, referring to the need to sign a social contract between a homeless person taking refuge in a shelter for homeless persons and the municipality of the last place of residence of that person. Such an exception will be applied in the case of a very difficult personal situation of the asylum seeker or in cases of urgency, e.g. during the frosts threatening the life of a homeless person. This provision has long been awaited by both local authorities and partners - representatives of NGOs, who have repeatedly reported numerous problems with the conclusion of a social contract with a homeless person at their place of residence. So far, it has worked in such a way that the social worker of the municipality of the last place of residence of the homeless person had to reach the municipality of the current place of residence of the homeless person in order to conclude a social contract with her. It was very troublesome and time-consuming. The proposed amendment is intended to lead to a situation where, in case of emergency, assistance is needed to a homeless person immediately and without unnecessary formalities. In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland will vote in favour of the Act amending the Social Assistance Act, the Seym Printing Act No 2111 and 2150. At the same time, we strongly hope that any unclear and disputed issues will be resolved until the law is implemented. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka will now speak in pursuit of the Kukiz club15. She's not here. In that case, please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill does not raise any major objections to the Modern Posel Club, which is why we will support it. According to the justification, this is a project containing changes requested by NGOs that take care of homeless people and local governments. This amendment will allow for a quicker response to the crisis situations of a homeless person who requires care benefits and, due to the lack of residence, cannot benefit from care benefits organised by the municipalities. New instruments of action include:: establishment of a new establishment called a shelter for homeless people with care services, which will be able to provide services to homeless people who require a greater than standard range of services; establishment of standards for the activities of these institutions; resignation from the requirement to enter into so-called. the social contract between the recipient and the municipality - so far the municipality of the last place of residence had an obligation to provide assistance in the form of care benefits, which involved the need for an interview and the conclusion of a social contract, in the case of homeless persons, this requirement prevented the provision of assistance in the form of care services at the place of actual residence of the homeless person - from enabling homeless persons unable to live independently in new establishments; waiting for the granting of a social assistance home for no more than 4 months. In connection with these records, only two questions and two doubts. Currently, the waiting time for a welfare home is 1 to 3 years. Hence the question about the possibility for local authorities to find such a place during the 4 months of their stay in a temporary institution and the question about financial issues. What kind of finances will be dropped on local governments? Will there be any additional sources of funding from the state budget to carry out these duties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u37	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u38	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Social Assistance, print no. 2111 and 2150. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the Social Assistance Act goes first and foremost against common sense. This is perhaps one of the few projects that PiS has consulted with NGOs. The project amends the rules on the possibility of the environment to care for sick homeless people by accommodation. According to current laws, a homeless person who is unable to live on his own should go to a welfare home. For a place in the DPS, ladies and gentlemen, however, it is waiting for years. It is necessary to amend the rules in this regard. In the project we can read that the government really wants to create a new kind of facility - a shelter for homeless people with so-called. care services. It's a good direction, of course. The question is, where are the facilities supposed to get the money to buy the equipment they need and pay the qualified staff. It is not permissible that the entire burden be borne by self-government. Non-governmental organisations recommend this draft law, which undoubtedly regulates serious problems and removes financial liability arising from the current legal situation from hostels. However, the details remain, which we think should be refined. We should start working on building a system of participation in the costs of central institutions, especially when governments are often eager to boast about the fruits of economic growth. If they are, they should be fairly divided. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party Club will support the bill presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u39	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Free and Solidarni Posel Wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act. The purpose of the proposed law is to clarify and, at the same time, to organise existing social assistance provisions in the field of temporary shelter for homeless persons. The amendment provides for the introduction of a new type of facility - shelters for homeless people with care services. The introduction of this type of facility is a response to the comments made by NGOs. Currently, homeless people receive temporary shelter in accommodation facilities, shelters for homeless people and heating rooms. These are facilities for homeless people who are capable of self-service, and their health does not endanger the lives of others in the facility. The amended provisions aim to eliminate the gap in aid for homeless people who, due to their situation, do not have the possibility to receive care services. In urgent situations, it will be possible to direct a homeless person to a shelter without prior signing a social contract. I believe that this solution is appropriate. We know what problems local governments or NGOs are facing when it comes to determining the whereabouts of a homeless person. In emergency situations, e.g. low temperatures appear, quick help is needed. In such situations, we cannot wait for the local government or organization to determine the current whereabouts of a homeless person so that a social contract can be signed with him, because the effects of the long-term procedure can be tragic. The new form of facility is intended to enable the provision of care services to persons partly unable to meet daily life needs. Services provided in a shelter for homeless people with care services will be addressed to homeless people who, due to age, illness or disability, require partial care and assistance of others while not requiring services provided by 24-hour care units or health care establishments. A homeless person will not have to sign a social contract to get into a homeless shelter with care services. The hostel for homeless people with care services will be a specialized facility providing additional services to improve social activity, help to get out of homelessness and, most importantly, help to achieve life independence. Revision of the bill is a good step in this area. About Free and Solidarni will support the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u41	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute. After the first question, I close the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. How is the planned register of places where the municipality provides temporary shelter in shelters for homeless people, shelters for homeless people with care services, accommodation facilities and heating rooms different from the existing register kept by the voivode? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u43	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These solutions meet the Ombudsman's demands and I am very pleased that there is a government response in the form of changes to the bill. This amendment of the law is very necessary, even necessary. I have a question about the level of education of carers employed in such an institution - secondary education - imposed in the Act. There are experiences showing that those without secondary education, those with part-time education who are preparing for care, are also excellent guardians of homeless people. So do we have to indicate this average education in the Act, limiting many people's social work opportunities? On the other hand, I am very interested in the fact that there is no indication of funding for the creation of individuals. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u45	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u46	Will it not again be a burden for local government units to create these facilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u47	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. This project increases the task of caring for homeless people, and this is very much needed and right, but above all and in principle it only increases these tasks for municipalities. Hostels with care services are introduced as well as significantly increased standards requirements. I ask why no forms of reimbursement are foreseen from the state budget. These are very heavy burdens and I think it would be worth sharing these costs. And second question. People staying in shelters will not be paid any fees, even if they receive regular monthly benefits. On the other hand, people in the DPS pay as much as 70% your pension to cover the cost of your stay. Why Some Pay 70% and others who receive regular benefits do not bear any payment? Is that fair? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u49	Thank you. The question is asked by Ewa Kołodziej from the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In connection with the establishment of new facilities: shelters with care services, and in view of the increase in the cost of payment per person in such facilities, as well as the obligation of the municipality to find a homeless person requiring 24/7 care and who is assigned to a social care home for up to 4 months of the relevant DPS in the municipality or in the neighbouring municipalities of the municipality will be charged additional costs, or perhaps the creators of the amendment of the law will find a way to compensate the local authorities for the cost of maintaining such facilities and benefits to the homeless? Have the new tasks imposed on the municipality been consulted in advance, and have fair conditions for cooperation between the government and the local government been established? However, we are getting signals that consultations were not carried out in an ideal and full manner. Is that true? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u51	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The project aims primarily at improving access to care services for homeless people. The question is therefore: Are people who have been granted a new type of shelter with care services obliged to sign a social contract? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u53	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u54	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to stress that this is a very important project, and I very much thank the family, work and social policy department for preparing this project, because it provides for a solution that is very important for the homeless and to safeguard their safety. The amendment provides that a homeless person is to be granted temporary shelter in a homeless shelter by the municipality of its place of residence, pursuant to Article. Article 101 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, i.e. in justified cases, does not require a homeless person to sign a social contract. Here I have a question for the Minister: Is this equivalent to excluding these people from the activation process? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u55	Thank you. I ask for the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u56	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The amendments proposed in the revision of the Social Assistance Act are expected and meet the needs of NGOs and municipalities. The provisions propose employment of social workers and hostels for homeless and shelters with care services. In view of the specific needs of service beneficiaries, the law provides for an increased qualification of their carers. I would like to ask the Minister: What qualifications will be required of the carers in these facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u57	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u58	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, The new rules assume that, in particularly justified cases, a person with a decision to enter a social assistance home for which there is no place in such an establishment may expect them in a shelter with care services. What if, after 4 months, there is still no room for such a person in a social security home? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u59	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I begin with the first question, Mr Nobletka, what is different about the proposed register of places where the municipality provides temporary shelters in shelters for homeless people, in shelters for homeless people with care services, accommodations or heating rooms, from the existing register that led the voivodeship. The aim of the proposed register is to provide maximum access to information about temporary shelters carried out in the context of the tasks of municipal authorities, i.e. for homeless people and all those in need of support in this form. However, the proposed regulations specify that the register will contain information on temporary shelters and not, as yet, on establishments. There are currently no provisions governing the reporting of information to such a database. On the other hand, the proposed amendment clearly indicates that it is the municipality's responsibility to report data to the voivode's register and not to a non-governmental organisation, as has been the case so far, in terms of both new information and the updating of existing data. This obligation is 14 days from the date of the change. In addition, according to the current regulations, the register was published annually by the voivodship, until 30 June, in the voivodship official journal and published on the website. Due to the inefficiency of this procedure, the project assumes that this form of publication should be abandoned in order to keep the data available from the register on the website of the voivodship office. I would like to turn to the second question that Mrs Margaret Płępek has asked regarding the legislation and education of persons. The provisions contained in the proposed law are directly based on the Regulation. We moved the provisions from the regulation in force from April 2016 to the existing law. Here I also refer to Mrs Borowiak's question and to the activities of the hostel services for homeless people. We list the catalogue of these people: it can be a social worker, a carer who has at least a secondary education and completed first aid training, or another person is spoken of. I would like to say that we have this provision and if we have shortcomings in this area, we are talking about 2020 as a deadline to supplement education in this area. There were questions about the arrangements and financing of a new type of shelter with care facilities. I would like to remind you that giving shelter is the task of your own community, self-government. We're not doing anything. We are not introducing a new one in this area, but, I would say, we are tidying up a certain state already, because those sick people who did not require 24-hour care, and so they went to those shelters that existed, to those institutions that existed, only somehow they were there, you can say, illegally, should not be there. Therefore, we are rather tidying this up in this regard. I would also like to point out that the draft law was consulted with the local authorities because it went through the whole process of agreement, including in the committee of the common government and the local government, and only after the positive opinion of the committee did we submit it to the parliament. So I would say that as far as all procedures in this area and agreements with local authorities are concerned, this has been completed. I'm moving on to more questions. Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko asked about the article. Article 101 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 on the social contract. This provision was introduced in view of the numerous comments made by local authorities which indicated the difficulties involved in concluding a social contract with a homeless person in her place of residence where there is a need to give her refuge quickly, as the municipality of the last permanent residence is obliged to conclude a social contract with the homeless person and to provide her refuge. This simplification of the procedure of not having to conclude a social contract is precisely intended to allow for the rapid provision of assistance in a specific situation. This provision should therefore not be interpreted as exempting a homeless person who has been granted shelter under the circumstances in question from activating measures. Mrs Boris-Szopa's question about the social contract was whether persons who were granted a stay in a shelter for homeless people with care services were also obliged to sign a social contract. Here, because of the specific health characteristics of people headed to a hostel with care services and often their limitations in terms of being able to participate in activating activities, they are not obliged to enter into a social contract. However, it should be stressed that if this shelter for homeless people with care services will also have space for those who do not require such care, those who do not need care services, then those who do not need care services will be obliged to sign a social contract. There has been a question from Mr Chmielowiec, and earlier this issue has also appeared, as regards staying there for more than 4 months in the context of the search for a social assistance home. Today, according to the article. 54 (1) (a) 2a of the Social Assistance Act, where the expected period of waiting for a person to be placed in a social assistance home of a particular type which is closest to his or her place of residence is more than 3 months, he or she shall, at his request, be referred to a social assistance home as close as possible to his or her place of residence, where the expected period of waiting for the placement is less than 3 months. On the other hand, according to the law, in particularly justified cases, a homeless person with a decision to send social assistance home may, while waiting for her to be placed in that facility, stay in a shelter for homeless persons for a period of 4 months. And it should be stressed that it is up to the municipality to find a place in the DPS, not a non-governmental organisation, for example. it operates this facility, not on that homeless person, but on the municipality which provides such services. Thus, the proposed regulation is intended to provide temporary support to a homeless person until it is placed in an appropriate facility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u61	Thank you very much. Do you, Mrs... The Member will not speak. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Minister's not here. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 17 hours 11 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws (print No 2225). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and honourable Members, I am pleased to present a governmental draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws implementing the EU directiveałly applicable to Polish law on payment services within the internal market, i.e. so-called. PSD Directive 2. The proposed draft amends the Payment Services Act of 19 August 2011. Since the adoption of the so-called. The first Payment Services Directive of 2007 has undergone significant changes in the retail payment market in terms of technical innovation with a sharp increase in the number of electronic payments, payments via mobile devices and the emergence of new types of payment services on the market, which questioned the usefulness of the current legal framework. The proposed directive will have a significant impact on the whole payment services market and thus on the activities of banks, cooperative savings and credit banks, payment institutions, store card providers, fuel cards, independent ATM operators or other non-bank payment service providers. Let me now present the most important points in terms of the solutions put forward to you, the honourable House. Firstly, the draft amendment provides the basis for the operation of new service providers in the payment services market. Next to banks, payment institutions, postal operators and others appear so-called. third parties that will be able to provide two types of services: a payment transaction initiation service... It is a service of providing its provider with access to the payer's online account to verify the availability of funds and then initiate payments on its behalf, and then provide the payer with information about the payment. The second type is an account information service. The provider shall provide the client with aggregated online information of at least one or more payment accounts maintained by one or more payment service providers. In this way, you will be able to easily manage your personal finances on a single service platform regardless of the fact that you have bank accounts with different financial institutions or different banks. Other opportunities and offers that can be built for customers based on this payment service are a whole range of services of the personal finance management sector. Account keeping banks will be required to open their customer access interfaces to customer accounts, known as APIs, to customers' customers, in accordance with the regulatory technical standard for strong customer authentication and common secure open communication standards. The entry into force of this RTS is planned for March 2018, which is the day after publication and the beginning of validity - 18 months after the date of publication. Polish banks are currently working on the Polish API; in the near future they will start consultations on the technical conditions of operation of the API. The introduction of regulation in the area of these two services is an introduction to the construction of modern services based on the economics of programmable access interfaces, which are intended to guarantee the safe operation of both new services in the financial sector, as well as the introduction to the so-called. Open banking - banks and other payment service providers as data aggregates, open platforms integrating financial and non-financial services. The second area of change implemented by this draft law is to improve the security of electronic payments and to increase consumer protection. The project introduces the so-called. strong authentication of the user. This means that in order to initiate payment, you will need to identify the customer by at least two independent authentication methods, e.g. by means of both SMS code and biometric solutions. The supplier will have to use strong authentication when the payer receives access to his online account, initiates an electronic payment transaction, carries out a remote channel operation that may involve a risk of payment fraud or other fraud. This solution will significantly improve the security of electronic payments. In the solutions submitted, it was assumed that in the case of an unauthorised payment transaction, inter alia. resulting from the use of the payer's lost or stolen payment instrument or the use of the payment instrument, the payer shall correspond to the equivalent of EUR 50. The current threshold of liability of the payer is EUR 150. On the one hand, reducing the payer's liability threshold for losses caused by unauthorised transactions means increasing its protection, and on the other hand, it is about discipline of payment service providers in complying with the highest standards for the security of electronic payments in products offered to consumers. The third important area of the proposed amendments is the introduction of simplifications in the area of licensing in the payment services market. Small payment institutions, the most important of which are FinTech... This small payment institution will have a simpler regulatory framework. Among the more than 100 barriers reported by the market in the course of the work of the R &amp; D team. FinTech at the Financial Supervision Authority was the length of the licence procedure before the KNF and the issue of uncertainty and complex procedures. These were among the most important barriers raised during these consultations. In view of this experience, we have found that, as part of the implementation of the PSD 2 Directive into national law, a small payment institution can be created, which can provide services such as keeping accounts or issuing payment instruments, but only within Poland, without a uniform passport, and within the limit of monthly turnover of EUR 1.5 million, based on simple, rapid registration before the supervisory authority, i.e. the Financial Supervision Commission. Such a solution is intended to enable certain services to be tested on a limited scale within the country. After a small payment institution grows, it will have to obtain a full licence because the company will already have experience and proven product. The solutions proposed in the draft will require that payment service providers make a number of changes in the way in which they operate. The documentation used by payment service providers in relations with users will change - it is about contract designs, regulations - and internal procedures will change. The new requirements will also be adapted to the IT systems, technology used by providers to provide payment services. Once new payment service providers enter the market, competition will increase, allowing consumers to choose the payment services most suited to their needs. With the implementation of the PSD 2 Directive, consumers will be better protected from fraud in the payment services market. In addition, in the vast majority of cases, it will not be possible to charge a special fee for card payments, especially debit and credit payments, both online and traditional. In practice, sellers will not be able to charge customers additional fees for the use of payment cards, e.g. during the consumer payment. On the other hand, regulations have been left to collect additional fees for the use of business cards, but such fees will not be able to exceed the direct costs incurred by points of commerce and services for the use of a specific payment instrument. The proposed solutions also make changes in the area of activities so far excluded from the payment services regulation regime. The exemption from the regulation of payment services offered by ATM operators independent of the account servicing payment service providers has been modified. However, ATM operators were required to comply with transparency requirements, i.e. the obligation to provide information on fees both before and after the fee is collected. Moreover, the fees charged by ATM operators will not be in breach of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border payments. The exclusion of payment transactions executed through a trading agent is also restricted to situations where they act solely on behalf of the payer or only on behalf of the payee, or where they act on behalf of both the payer and the payee. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the third quarter of 2017 for the first time in quarterly history, the number of non-cash payments with payment cards exceeded a billion and amounted to 1004 million operations. The changes submitted are an important basis for building a secure non-cash turnover, an important element of the development of the Polish economy for the Polish government, increasing the speed of payments by money users, as well as for the further development of modern transaction technologies in financial services, which is constantly important for customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u63	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws, print No 2225. This draft law aims to align national rules on the way in which payment services are provided with the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Directive of 25 November 2015 on payment services within the internal market, so-called. PSDs 2. The main objectives of this Directive are to further contribute to a more integrated and efficient European payment market, to improving competition rules for payment service providers, to safer and better secured payments, to protecting consumers and to reducing payment costs. One of the most important changes to the bill is the introduction of a new category of suppliers. It is a payment transaction initiation service, in short PIS, and an account information access service, in short AIS. Secondly, a modification of the scope of exemptions. Thirdly, a modification of the liability rules for an unauthorised transaction and finally the introduction of a small payment institution. The account information service provider shall provide the client with aggregated online information on at least one payment account or several payment accounts maintained by one or more payment service providers. The payment initiation service shall consist in providing the payment service provider with access to the payer's online account to verify the availability of payment means. The project maintains the exemption from the regulation of payment services offered by ATM operators independent of the account servicing payment service providers. The exclusion of payment transactions executed through a trading agent is limited to situations where they act solely on behalf of the payer or only on behalf of the payee, or where they act on behalf of both the payer and the payee. Payment activities covered by the exemption from the so-called "payment activities'. limited network, remaining excluded. The scope of the exclusion of payment transactions carried out by an electronic communications network or service provider has also been limited. Using the national option, a new entity entitled to provide payment services is introduced in the draft law, so-called. a small payment institution, in short a MIP, i.e. a natural person, a legal person and an organisational unit which is not a legal person to whom the law grants legal capacity, entered in the register of small payment institutions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this bill be referred to the Committee on Public Finance for further proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u65	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law that we are currently dealing with is an attempt to implement the PSD 2 directive, i.e. the Payment Services Directive in the Internal Market of 25 November 2015. This is your first remark, Minister. We've been waiting a long time for this project. These 2 years are supposed to be not long, but the matter we are dealing with is enormously, turbulently changing, because the main reason why we have a PSD 2 directive and this project that we are dealing with today is that there was a PSD directive that needs to be changed. Today we are amending the 2011 Act. Minister! What did the smartphone look like in 2011, and what does it look like today? What does it look like, in the language of this project, a portable device in 2018 and what did it look like in 2011? It's such a turbulently changing environment that it has to be done immediately. These aren't the things to wait for. This turbulently changing technological environment is not the only problem, because the turbulently changing business environment is the same. After all, in the meantime, since the 2011 Act, many types of payment services have emerged in the area of the payment services market, which have not yet existed. However, going back to the project and - what is important - the PSD directive 2, I would like to draw attention to its, i.e. the EU directive, the pro-consumer nature, because there is no doubt that what is most important in it is important for the consumer, i.e. the increase in the security of payments made, the wider protection of consumers, the improvement of competitiveness among payment service providers. It is very important to include all players in this market, i.e. not only those whom the directive suggests, because it is already over 2 years old, so that it should not be necessary to say in time the old saying that the Ministry of Finance wanted well and it came out as always. We all do, and we all insist that none of the players on this market should be missed. Improving competitiveness in the payment services market is, of course, very good news for consumers, because the price reductions in payment services are in favour of improving competitiveness, which is also underlined in the EU Directive. There is no doubt that this broad, overarching, very important objective for the Directive is to create an even more secure and integrated internal market, in particular the part of it that exists here by name, i.e. the market for payment services. The Civic Platform is in favour of directing this project to further seismic work. At the same time, I wanted to stress that I hope, like my colleagues from the Civic Platform, that when it comes to the project that we are discussing today, after work in Parliament all these good goals for Poland and Poles, which are mentioned in the directive, will be implemented by this law. And last but not least, maybe the most important thing. I would like to stress that even the best implemented implementation of the directive on the payment services market will not improve our relations with partners in the European Union today. What's important to them is the division of power, the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges, the independence of the Supreme Court, the independence of the Constitutional Court, the end of the politicisation of the media, the end of the politicisation of the courts and the end of the politicisation of the prosecution. These are important things. In terms of violating the foundations of the democratic rule of law, the directive is only a detail, and you are violating the foundations of our state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u67	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15. Absent. I would like to ask Mrs Hennig-Kloska from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this law is a law introducing into Polish law the PSD Directive 2 of the European Union, which, as a result, is to adapt changes throughout the European Union, legal changes in innovative technologies in direct payments, which have appeared in the meantime on the market, which are available to consumers and which today are not regulated by law in any way. It is very important to adopt these new guidelines and this directive in this regard. It cannot be that services enter the market, which even rely on customers to provide sensitive data on their bank accounts to external entities, and in no way is this regulated by law. I think that the average citizen may not be aware of the fact that these innovative solutions, although they are good for him, because they make him bear less costs and can carry out the transaction more quickly, can give rise to huge operational risks, as well as make his sensitive account data fall into the wrong hands. However, here as legislators, we have a duty, first of all, to educate citizens to check their suppliers with such modern technology services, because it is about security, but also to provide them with some legal protection. Undoubtedly, this directive contains such elements. Such services have already appeared in Europe - said the Minister - they also enter our country and as legislators we should absolutely protect citizens by including these new technologies by law. Of course, the directive and the law also contain elements that aim to further integrate the European payment market, facilitate the entry of new suppliers into the market and indirectly reduce costs. This is intended to safeguard consumer protection and reduce costs. And in fact such elements also appear, among others. We know that after the reduction of interchange fees in cards appeared in many countries, also in some cases in Poland, additional credit card charges, which in turn are imposed on customers on the other side. This directive and the law e.g. In this respect, such charges are prohibited from being introduced. We are treating this directive and the law as a further step towards such regulation of the payment market in Europe. Of course, as a modern club, we will recommend that the bill be referred to the committee. However, it appears that it would be worthwhile, Minister, to establish a subcommittee in this area, as in the case of any directive, to lean on all the provisions in detail, so that ultimately the bill would accept the best image for consumers, but on the other hand it would not limit the person in some way, the development of banking innovation or the entry of new entrants. It is also worth leaning on such access to the sensitive data of new entrants, to the risks that this may give rise to, because, of course, if this reduces transaction costs, it is good, because as citizens, we would like to benefit from the lowest fees and good quality, but cheap solutions commonly used, because it significantly reduces the costs of new technologies, but we must also focus on ensuring that regulations never seek to limit the entry of new technologies into the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So once again, we recommend setting up a subcommittee on this matter, leaning over every detailed record, and as a club we join the work on this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u69	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz, the Poselski Club15. Oh, there isn't. I'm sorry. In that case, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government's draft law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. The draft law implements EU law, so-called. PSD Directives 2, i.e. Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal market The draft law, implementing the PSD 2 directive, is now amending the Payment Services Act. The project analysed eliminates regulatory gaps in existing legislation, introduces new players in the payment services market, harmonises operating conditions and normalizes the payment market across the European Union. The aim of the project is therefore to make cross-border payments in a simple, effective and safe manner for consumers in all Member States. The payment service directory has been extended by two new types of services, i.e. about the initiation of a payment transaction and the access service to account information. Both services are auxiliary to the relevant services, i.e. services resulting in the actual transfer of client's cash. The providers of these services shall not at any stage acquire the client's cash. The payment initiation service shall verify the availability of cash, the initiation of payments and then provide the payer with information on the payment. However, the information service provider shall provide the client with aggregated information on-line of at least one account or several payment accounts maintained by one or more payment service providers. The draft law also introduces a new entity entitled to provide payment services, so-called. a small payment institution. These institutions will only be able to carry out their activities in Poland after obtaining registration, and the volume of turnover achieved by a small payment institution must not exceed EUR 1.5 million per month. These small payment institutions will also be able to carry out business activities other than the provision of payment services. It will therefore be a new form of activity for small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to keep payment accounts, to issue instruments, e.g. Mobile cards or payments, and handle small-scale payment transactions. For financial security it will be necessary to register by the Financial Supervision Commission and meet the requirements, inter alia. preparing a business plan, having a risk management procedure and carrying out obligations related to the prevention of money laundering. On the basis of the regulations introduced, the law should increase consumer safety precisely by harmonising the rules on liability for transactions, as well as ensuring better protection for payers, increasing consumer rights when sending transfers and transfers of funds outside the European Union or payments even in currencies outside the Union. The amendment should also reduce consumer fees and even prohibit additional fees for card payments. This will increase competition in the electronic payment market, and in general the proposed changes will foster the development of non-cash trading, contributing to the further development of the information society. The draft provides for the exercise of overall supervision of payment services by the Financial Supervision Authority at both the authorisation, prudential supervision and identification of irregular events, market incidents, assessment and notification of the relevant authorities. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing the project to further work in the committee, where we will be able to refine its details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u71	Thank you, Member. That concludes our speeches on behalf of the circles and clubs. Let's move on to asking questions. Question time - 1 minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. After the first question, I close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The new EU PSD 2 regulating payment services on the Internet introduces a new category of payment institutions. They will be third parties operating alongside banks, existing payment institutions or postal operators. There will be two categories of such entities: payment institutions initiating the payment, as well as entities providing an account information service. Under the PSD 2 Directive and its related regulation, third parties brokering online transactions could have the right to download logins and passwords from customers to bank accounts. I therefore have a question: To what extent will PSD 2 enter into force, bank customers will have to transfer their bank account passwords and logins to third parties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u73	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Directive is very important, very important for trade, for the security of payment services, but imposes a number of obligations on both the supervisory authorities such as the Financial Supervision Commission and the participants in this trading. I have a technical question: Is the 14-day deadline for the entry into force of the Act sufficient to ensure that all the obligations that the Act introduces can be implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u75	Thank you. In this we have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. When it comes to the first question concerning the provision of information to third parties, it is worth remembering that what the banking sector is currently doing in preparation for the implementation of this bill, this is the development of a way of sharing data from bank accounts, such a way that it is based on the API, so that the client is not forced to provide passwords or login, but that the API can use this information - of course the client will agree beforehand that he wants to use such a service from a third party - it can be said, automatically, to be sucked up, only and only account information, already by that third party as part of the provision of bank account information. So above all, we have here, which is extremely important, the fact that this whole process assumes consent, assumes that the client of the bank wants to use the service offered by a third party. The banking sector then wants to guarantee the customer's safety. The data is made available in an automated way, you can say, so that the third party does not see the login and password, only contact with this channel, this API interface, and here is a limited, limited amount of information, which is intended to guarantee the safety of the use of this service. So, knowing the risks that you have been talking about, we do not assume that here, there will be no provision in any way for passwords and logins. As for Mrs Czernow's question, this is it. the issue raised by the representative of the Civic Platform during the discussion. Indeed, this is a directive that was adopted in 2015, but the fact that we are now meeting on this issue, that the High House has the opportunity to discuss this project, the Committee on Public Finance probably in a moment, is due to the fact that during this period, which has passed since the adoption of the directive, we have had very long discussions with the industry. Several hundred comments were made on this project. This project is the result of the multi-month, over-annual discussions that took place both in 2016 and in 2017. We have dealt with the situation that this project is highly technical in many places, i.e., it concerns these technical aspects of the functioning of banks, the whole payment system - please immediately note that it is both a payment system traditionally understood in which there is a special role of the National Bank of Poland, as well as those innovations in the payment area that we see on the market - and this modernity, which Mr. FinTech sector. We also wanted to draw attention to this and improve the functioning of the Financial Supervision Commission in the course of this directive. And that's why there's this scope right here... this solution to the simplified... to the regulatory area for these small payment institutions. So this process, this work, this commentary, what is worth mentioning, has been going on for months. For this reason, the industry is prepared, aware of what the laws will be and when they will come in. There are transitional periods in certain parts. It is not that, after 14 days, the entire law enters into force, but where this industry has pointed out that where there is a need for transitional periods in appropriate places, this has been taken into account during the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u77	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws, contained in print No.225, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 16 March 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws (Print No 2215). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to present to you the next draft amendments to the legislation relating to the programme to support people with disabilities and their families. The bill, which I present to you today, on the amendment of the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and some other laws is primarily the second stage of the implementation of the programme which the Ministry has prepared. The project presented today was the subject of wide-ranging agreements, opinions, and was subject to an in-depth public consultation, among others. through project consultation conferences, workshops, direct working meetings with interested environments. The project was also assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The opinion was positive subject to the provisions concerning the arrangements for the election of the President of the Management Board of PFRON. And on 9 January, the Council of Ministers adopted this draft law and submitted it to the High House. The essence of the proposed solutions is the creation of a support mechanism for families in the area of, among others. support and rehabilitation services by conducting club activities in occupational therapy workshops. This is a very expected change by the participants of the workshop on occupational therapy, which will allow for the creation of for those who leave the workshop on occupational therapy, a support system, to support them in emancipation and professional and social. It is also about the entitlement of sick persons to welfare benefits in case of illness of a disabled child up to 18 years of age. At the moment, this welfare allowance was only due to the age of 14. When it comes to disabled children, a 14-year-old is certainly not a time-celebration. We want parents to benefit from care benefits until they're 18 years old. We extend this period when it comes to benefits and at the same time increase the number of days a year from 14 to 30. It is also about using flexible forms of working time organisation for carers with disabilities, including mobile working time, flexible working time, teleworking, depending on the employer's ability and needs. The other changes concern administrative procedures governed by the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. We have also clarified in the project some provisions concerning the operation of workshops for occupational therapy, responsibilities and rights of employers employing people with disabilities. We have amended the regulations concerning the appointment of the President and Deputy President of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The project also provides for the regulation of amounts free from deductions and executions other than those currently available, the deduction from the lowest pension benefits and the fixing of their amounts. Other provisions are more orderly in nature. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that as regards the assessment of the impact of the regulation, the financial resources were planned in the financial plan of the "For Life' programme, which was an annex to the programme of comprehensive support for families "For Life'. In this financial plan for 2018, the amount of funds planned for this purpose amounted to 1200 000. zł. In addition, we estimate that if all parents or carers of disabled children who are eligible for this, they would like to benefit from additional rights in terms of mobile working time or teleworking, it would cost employers about PLN 213 million. Of course, it is difficult to estimate these expenses simply because we do not know how many parents would like to benefit from it, but we also do not know how much the employer would like to pay to adjust his job position when it comes to teleworking or moving working time. As regards changes in the Social Insurance Money Insurance Act in case of illness and maternity, here we hope that the total financial result will be about PLN 5 million - PLN 5300 thousand. zł. Of course, this will be financed by a sickness fund in a state insurance undertaking. Other financial consequences are difficult to determine but should not affect the implementation of these laws. We have also prepared draft regulations for the bill, which are attached to the bill. They were also consulted and agreed. They are accompanied by the effects of the regulation. I ask the High House to lean on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u79	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will speak first. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the pleasure to review the Government's bill on amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. Project WW. The law follows and deals with the implementation of the second stage of the comprehensive programme of support for the families.For life adopted by the government in December 2016, the primary task of which is to support families with disabilities, in particular those raising disabled children. In order for the programme for families to work together and be effective, changes must be made to the various laws. It concerns the law on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, the Labour Code, the Law on social security benefits in the event of illness and maternity, and the Act on support for pregnant women and families. The essence of the proposed solutions is to create support mechanisms for families, among others. in the field of support and rehabilitation services by conducting club classes and occupational therapy workshops, so-called WTZs, the entitlement of persons insured to welfare benefits in the case of illness of a disabled child under 18 years of age, the use of flexible forms of work organisation, including e.g. Teleworking. The conditions for these people are to improve the improvement of services supporting people with disabilities, to regulate them and to accelerate them. The draft law covers changes in administrative proceedings. It clarifies the provisions on the operation of workshops for occupational therapy, responsibilities and employers' rights for employed persons with disabilities. The draft law also provides for the regulation of quotas free of deductions and enforcement other than those currently in force. This is to be done, among others. excluding them from the lowest benefits and setting them at the level of specific amounts. This is to help those in financial difficulties who, due to their disability, are unable to cope on their own. In addition, the Social Insurance Institution will bear legal risks regarding the imposition of fines on its employees by certain enforcement bodies where they carry out their obligations properly, as recommended by the employer, i.e. the Social Insurance Institution. The current rules have a great deal of controversy over the deduction of amounts recovered from pension benefits. They give rise to a different interpretation of the rules in force by certain enforcement authorities and raise doubts because of their differentness from those laid down in remunerations. In the case of changes to the workshops of occupational therapy, they are intended to involve the preparation of people with disabilities for independent, independent life. At present, the work of the WTCs does not meet the requirements of the labour market in many cases. It's about to change. Practical preparation is intended to increase opportunities in the labour market. It should be noted that the task of the WTZs should not only be to prepare people to cope with the labour market. This should also go beyond this spectrum. This is served by the draft law, which, in addition to professional preparation, is intended to strengthen the social activity of these people. Changes to the provisions of the Labour Code introduce the possibility to use the individual schedule of working time or work in the form of so-called. teleworking at the binding request of an employee - a parent who expects a disabled child to be born. Such flexibility is expected socially and will allow workers to combine the performance of their professional duties with the performance of their family responsibilities. This change also applies to parents with disabled children. Other changes include: extension of data collected in the Electronic National Monitoring and Disability Assessment System to data on health, education, social, occupational and family status. These changes are intended to optimise the disability ruling process by district and voivodship teams. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomes these proposals and recommends that the Government draft law amend the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the employment of disabled persons and some other laws be sent to the committee for further examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Parliamentary Club, Civic Platform will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to express my regret that the subsequent changes to the deadline for considering this point make it very difficult to participate fairly in this debate. Of course, I very much wanted to listen to the Minister who referred to this project, but the committee's deliberations had just ended. I just found out that the deadline for considering this point has been changed again. Therefore, I may be talking about the things that the Minister mentioned, but unfortunately I had no way of hearing it. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we generally welcome these changes. These include four laws, but these are changes in order, extending, clarifying. However, we believe that such a project should raise issues that are still silent here. Firstly, since we are amending the law which is intended to support families in general with a disabled person, especially a severely disabled person, the problem is why the Government of Law and Justice has not implemented the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on equalisation of benefits to caretakers of adults with disabilities for so long. This is all the more incomprehensible - I avoid stronger words - because it was the Members of the Law and Justice who demanded before the Constitutional Tribunal that the earlier provisions introduced in the previous term were unconstitutional. And when the tribunal ruled this at the end of its term of office in 2015, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party prepared a bill, and in the draft budget for 2016 provided funds for the implementation of this judgment. It's been so long. You demanded these solutions, so why aren't you implementing them? Why are these people still - just as you yourselves are deeply convinced - in a grossly unconstitutional situation? The second issue, which is unfortunately not addressed either, concerns the promotion of the employment of people with disabilities in public administration. By destroying civil service, mechanisms in place at the time of the PO-PSL government supporting the employment of persons with disabilities in public administration were eliminated. Unfortunately, despite the passing of more than 2 years, there are still no new proposals in this regard, even if it comes back in some form to the mechanism previously introduced in the previous term. I will also remind you that at the beginning of last year Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska declared employment until the end of that year in public administration 5 000. persons with disabilities. We'd like to ask you where these people are, where they've been hired. Or was it a declaration that today one might not remember in the government? We also believe that it is unacceptable to exclude children with disabilities lightly between the ages of 16 and 18 as regards the preferences in the 500+ programme. This really is a small group. Often - as we have repeatedly emphasized - these children are only slightly disabled because for many years their parents, their loved ones, have worked hard in rehabilitation, pedagogical, psychological, and mobilizing these children to tremendous effort. This applies e.g. children with cerebral palsy. You can achieve sensational effects here. And all of a sudden, at the age of 16, when there is a division, a distinction of degrees of disability, it turns out that for those children with a slight disability, preferences that apply to other disabled children cease to apply. I think it's demanding an urgent change, too. We also consider it a faulty departure from the two-instant administrative procedure. The fact that the same authority that issued the decision will deal with the appeal in this case is not correct. In this way, de facto, the proxy for disabled persons is deprived of access to and control of what is happening in its subordinate institution, the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We think it's a good thing the minister had the opportunity to see... In addition, a decision is prepared differently when it is known that the superior authority will have an insight into it. We believe that this provision should be definitely deleted. I would also like to ask whether the National Consultative Council has spoken on this amendment. If she spoke, we'd like her opinion, and if she didn't, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what I hear from those who are taking part in the work of this Council is the question of why the national council has not spoken because it should certainly take a stand on this matter. And one last thing, it's just a little...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u83	Mr President, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u84	Your marshal, just a matter of vacathio legis. We believe that shortening the vacathio legis to 1 day is not justified, and we propose to keep the normal standard, i.e. 14-day vacathio legis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u85	Thank you. Please take the floor of Agnieszka Chasing from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 with regard to the contested bill amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. The contested law undoubtedly introduces a number of positive changes in the functioning of people with disabilities or their surroundings, and affects regulation more in such a procedural and administrative manner, eliminating several errors in compiled forms of support. The biggest changes are, in my opinion, the functioning of occupational therapy workshops. A positive assessment should be made of the possibility of continuing the support of the participants in the occupational therapy workshops who decide to take up employment at the clubs created by the occupational therapy workshops. The legislator points out that the workshops of occupational therapy that wish to run such clubs will have a chance to obtain money from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. We do not have any information on which rules are to be followed, whether it is discretionary, and in what way they will be able to do so. On the other hand, the provision that a participant who chooses to take up employment with an employer has 90 days to be on the list of those returning to the occupational therapy workshop under preferential conditions is a fictional record. The guarantee that people coming out of occupational therapy workshops would not be afraid to take up work would be an opportunity to go back to 90 days for occupational therapy workshops, not get on the list. Absolutely incomprehensible, unwarranted is the provision which prohibits the combination of work in workshops of occupational therapy, e.g. a therapist, and a member of the management board of the association of the unit, that is, the association that founded the workshop of occupational therapy. The most common associations, which conduct workshops of occupational therapy, are set up by carers, parents, therapists, people with a high heart and with the intention of helping their children or their subjects. Associations have no money - these are nonprofit organizations - to hire their boards. Most often it is those people who have established an association who also take care of their children and work very often for the lowest salary, because they are really funny money. Ladies and gentlemen, the combination of these functions cannot be prohibited. Let's take a look and hit the chest a little bit. Minister, Member and very often still a member of the Supervisory Board of some State Treasury company - such functions can be combined, and the work of the occupational therapist for 2000 PLN cannot be combined with the function of Vice President or Treasurer in the Association, which is most often a voluntary organization. This is incomprehensible. I think you're trying to discourage everyone, even those people with good hearts, from doing this job, even for the little money. The assessment of results and progress in rehabilitation over a period of 6 months is fiction, absurdity, and it will only be the creation of papers. These six months are the time of diagnosis. Someone who has worked with people with disabilities for a while knows that it takes six months to diagnose a disabled person well. Positive changes in this law are of course. These are changes in enabling flexible work, forms of work of carers, disabled children, introduction and extension of the welfare allowance. It is only a pity that the burden to which the State has committed itself, because the burden of the Law is a commitment of the State, the Ministry, to employers. It would be good if this weight could carry, for example. ZUS. The increase in amounts free from bail-in charges for people on pensions - symbolic, but nevertheless - is a good step, a positive step. I don't understand where the sudden changes in registration come from when it comes to the electronic system for registering judgments, since the government has committed itself to changing the whole system of ruling. True, we have been waiting two years for this, but is it worth making some technical changes, since we are supposed to have a new system of judgment on days? Well, we've been waiting two years, so I understand that this bill isn't an acceleration of this mode either, because it's not a change in the ruling system. Finally, an interesting record I found regarding the fine for officials. Maybe I don't really understand him, but the punishment for making mistakes goes to the employer. The employer is the ZUS, and the ZUS is paid by us taxpayers, which means everything is the same, the official can make mistakes, and the penalty will be paid by the taxpayers. I thought we were going in a different direction, towards official responsibility. However, we look forward to working on this law in committees. These are just some of the elements that we have particularly pointed out, but the bill is going in the right direction and, of course, we will be happy to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u87	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we are in a situation where very important issues are introduced into the debate, solutions that many environments have been waiting for for for many, many years, and when the law, which also contains good records, contains such provisions which are very difficult to adopt and which are worth discussing especially when consultations are being conducted. Later, this consultation is very low, and few of the things that have been consulted are actually introduced into the law. Many workshops of occupational therapy from all over Poland are in favour of re-submission to the public consultation of the bill amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities and some other laws of 23 November 2017, as the too fast process of this normative act will help to block the proper work of NGOs for the benefit of people with disabilities, as well as workshops of occupational therapy themselves. The following provisions are of particular concern. Amendment of Article 10a concerning the first comprehensive evaluation to be carried out within a period of 3 and 6 months from the date of acceptance of the participant. In such a short period of time, it is difficult to accurately assess the possibility of a participant, the consequence of which would be its fate. In addition, an individual rehabilitation programme is created during the first 3 months, the more impossible it is to evaluate a newly created programme, and therefore such a provision is impossible to implement in a reliable way, and even so it is ordered that workshops create fiction. Another article, Art. 10ab, concerns the prohibition on the recruitment of non-governmental management board members in occupational therapy workshops. The registration is contrary to a number of laws, such as the Labour Code, the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, and even the Constitution. It threatens to violate the principles of freedom of employment as well as freedom of opinion. The introduction of this article will cause chaos both in workshops and in organizations, as well as a number of legal actions in the field of labour law. In addition, this provision will cost the government very much because some of the current board members, and at the same time employees of the WTZ, are both the carers and parents of the workshop participants, so in a situation of choice between work and non-governmental activities, they will resign from work and move immediately to care provision. In addition, at least 90% workshops run by the non-governmental sector, i.e. more than 500 WTZ, are run by small organizations, of which at least half, i.e. about 250 workshops in Poland, is in a situation where some people from the board are employees of WTZ, because it is the main activity of this organization. The introduction of this provision will result in the return of at least 800 people with disabilities to their homes in the next few years and thus the transition of their carers to care services, and workers will lose their jobs and switch to unemployment benefits. Art. 10b. 2b concerns the financing of workshops. This record is unclear, it is even complicated and can reduce the co-financing of workshops by local authorities, which will consequently lead to the bankruptcy of WTZ. In addition, there is no indication in the proposed law to value the annual cost of the participant's stay. In order to allow workshops to continue their rehabilitation activities at an optimal level, it is necessary to increase the amount of one participant's monthly contribution to the stay WTZ to a level corresponding to 100% gross minimum wage. A regional strategy for solving social problems. It is necessary to delete the provision that makes it possible to create WTZs in a given district and to increase the number of participants operating WTZs according to the provisions contained in the district strategy for solving social problems. If district strategies for solving social problems do not contain the indications required by this provision, the use of this provision may cause major problems. The workshop will be difficult to gain acceptance of authorities, local environments. It will be difficult to bring about the required changes to the current strategy. A sufficient argument for increasing the number of participants should be the list of people waiting for more than 3 months to be admitted to the workshop, which will be run by the PCPRs. Administrative procedure. The removal of the appeal from the decision of the President of PFRON to the Minister responsible for social security and the introduction of a request for review of the case is a big mistake. This should be avoided by the same authority and treated as an exceptional circumstance only if there is no higher authority. The liquidation of the election contest for President and Vice-Presidents of PFRON is just a clean guy. Many changes are due to the need to respond to the establishment of the Life Programme. Unfortunately, these are cosmetic changes, introduced without understanding the problem and the matter with which the legislator is facing. These changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like a calender, introduced by the PiS in situations where we talk about management and supervision, they put up with competitions, they introduce guys...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u89	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u90	...the wrong administrative arithmetic, the chaos leading to the impossible functioning of the organization and consequently bankruptcy. So you're really not taking care of people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u91	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u92	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and hiring people with disabilities and some other laws, print no. 2215. Ladies and gentlemen! The project under investigation is a continuation of the measures already taken two years ago. This continues to provide support for families with disabled people. The project provides for regulations aimed at participants in occupational therapy workshops, helping to maintain independence and independence in society. This is specifically about organized rehabilitation. Regulation gives the possibility to continue occupational therapy to people who have completed participation in workshops, for example. they've taken up employment. Such persons reported the need to continue the support provided during the workshops. It is also about helping a person maintain employment. What does that mean in practice? Because a disabled person with new regulations will be able to continue the course regardless of whether he changes or even loses his employment. The specific scope of the classes, their organisation and hourly dimension will be determined by a workshop of occupational therapy. Importantly, a disabled person who has left the occupational therapy workshop in connection with taking up employment, in the event of his loss and re-submission to participate in the workshop within 90 days of leaving WTZ-et will have priority in starting the therapy. Club activities carried out by occupational therapy workshops will be financed by the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. 1,200 thousand were planned for this purpose. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important change concerns the parents of a child with a certificate of severe and irreversible impairment. Such parents will gain the right to work in the form of teleworking on the basis of a binding employer's application after the law has been introduced. We consider it good that you will be able to use your rights not only until your child has completed 18 years of age, but also longer. These solutions make it easier for working people with severely ill or disabled children to reconcile work and childcare. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, the club of the Polish People's Party will support the proposed amendment in the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u93	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. So we ran out of statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute. And after the question has been asked, I will close the list of Members who have been enrolled in the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of the procedure for the amendment of the Law affecting the situation of persons in need of care, I request an initiative on the non-valorisation of the care allowance since 2006. As of today, this allowance amounts to PLN 153 per month, which with current expenses is simply a ridiculously low amount. In a situation where prices of goods and services are constantly rising, maintaining the care allowance at a constant, unchangeable level for such a long time is seen by such persons as an act of injustice. Minister, will any action be taken on the valorization of the care allowance? When you would expect the first [[♪ The bell ♪]] valorization of care allowance...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u95	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u96	...and a care provision that hasn't been paid off this year either? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u97	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, it is true that many of the workshops' occupation therapy environments are keenly interested in this law, talking about positive changes, but also pay particular attention to records that raise many doubts and threats. They may in the near future worsen the quality of the rehabilitation and reintegration workshops, and consequently even lead to the liquidation of parts of the occupational therapy workshops, which, I hope, were not intended by the authors of this law. The greatest doubts are raised by the provisions of the Article. 10a, 10aa, 10ab and 10b. 2b, which concerns the financing of workshops. These amendments are not included in the explanatory memorandum. It has not been explained why such changes are to be made and what is the purpose of their implementation. Because how can it be justified to set a deadline of 3 to 6 months for the first comprehensive assessment of fate [[♪ The bell ♪]] Participants... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you. I have more questions, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u99	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why this law prohibits a volunteer who founded and directs an association - and the association is the body responsible for workshops of occupational therapy - to combine this function with work e.g. A professional therapist in a career therapy workshop? I would add that running an association is the cheapest form of action for the local population. It is not easy for associations, activists, and instead it is more difficult to work in associations by inventing bureaucratic arrangements. For example, I will ask the question: Why is it not prohibited to combine the role of Member and Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u101	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Two things I didn't have time to raise in my speech. I would like to join a group of speakers on the obstacles introduced for the workshops on occupational therapy. After all, these are often small local organizations. We should support them as much as we can. And now this prohibition, the ban on hiring executives in this association, is completely scattered with the realities of such associations - just small, local ones. Similarly - the intention to expand the activities of the occupational therapy workshops about clubs is good, but will they have money for it? It is clear that this requires additional employment. Already today we often hear that valuable people are leaving the workshops, because they simply are not able to live with this money. The third question - also the intention is good, but whether it will not hit the establishments of professional activity - is to reduce the reduction to 50% of the amount of the invoice. Because there are those who grant multimillion-dollar reliefs, and professional activity establishments often give them several tens of thousands each year, maybe 100,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wouldn't it be better to reduce the amount of the benefit per year rather than to reduce the percentage per invoice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u103	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club. [[I think it's a mistake.]] [[No, it's modern.]] [[What happened to my performance?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Two more things because I didn't have time to move them either. Currently, one of the major problems for WTZs is to abandon the provisions on the possibility of taking apprenticeships and paid traineeships. Because now it is the case that WTZ participants, wanting to take advantage of an internship under the Employment Promotion Act, have to give up the WTZ, which is simply pointless, does not give a chance to develop and at the same time to sustain this activation that WTZs should provide. So the question is, what can we do about it? Is there still a chance to make it better? There are also financial issues. New responsibilities are added to WTZ-etom - running clubs. This is a very good idea, clubs are very much needed, although this is a new obligation for employees for the same money. Not much, it is expected from the WTZs that they have to look for money in other places for their business. Tell us, because such questions come to us: How can they do this? Where are they gonna look for that money? On what basis? They can't determine their actions for a year or years ahead if they have to look for money themselves, [[♪ The bell ♪]] without state support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u105	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My questions are about a workshop on occupational therapy. The first concerns a system of support for former participants in occupational therapy workshops to prepare them for independent work and social life, which certainly makes sense and is needed, but these restrictions that have been introduced raise very serious doubts and de facto limit this support system. The second point I would like to raise, and the question - this is the common problem of people with disabilities and their families - concerns the lack of places in workshops for occupational therapy. New institutions do not arise, there are not enough of them, in fact finding a place for a disabled person in the workshops of occupational therapy border with a miracle. When will the government take care of this issue? This is an extremely urgent matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u107	Thank you. Please ask Mr.Peter Łukasz Babiarz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The primary task of district, voivodship teams on disability is to rule on disability, among others. for persons under 16 years of age. I would like to ask you about mechanisms for monitoring decision-making by district teams, I mean different decisions made in different teams about the same disability. Examples. Brain palsy, lower limb palsy. Temporary ruling for 2 years, no possibility to benefit from parental benefit for the carer and parking card. A child with a known Down syndrome, a timer for two years. I would like to appeal again here. Since we want to introduce a law on life, we should also monitor district teams on disability decisions, because unfortunately there are many irregularities there in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u109	Thank you, sir. I ask for the floor of Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act regulates welfare benefits for people with sickness insurance who deal with disabled children under the age of 18, while we still have the problem of disabled people, children with disabilities, and the question of a rational solution to care for these children. This case has already sounded in this House many times. I think it is extremely important to speed up work on the direction of the solutions on this issue as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u111	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the interesting discussion and involvement of the state in the topics that the bill deals with. As I mentioned, the bill was quite widely and deeply consulted, there were two national conferences, 16 regional conferences, there were 32 workshops, there was a survey of participants and people with disabilities. Most of these comments have been taken into account, hence the project we are presenting to you is now much more modest than the draft law. The main problem was that we consulted very different people. The state in its statements often takes the position of employees of occupational therapy workshops. Of course, employees are important, parents are important, but the rights of people with disabilities are also important. If you will also remember that the workshops are not for employees, they are not for organizations that run them, they are only for disabled people and are supposed to meet their needs, then, I think, it is worth looking a little wider, deeper and wondering whether the workers are really the most important, or maybe the participants of the workshops. Mr... I'll look again... Mrs Navel seems to have talked about practices, traineeships. Of course, we planned traineeships and apprenticeships, but they were included in the bill that the High House recently passed in the amendment of the Social Cooperatives Act. There are for workshops participants entered apprenticeships, 15 hours a week, up to 6 months. Up to 6 months a workshop participant, without losing his place in the workshop, can participate in professional practices in a social cooperative, 15 hours a week. As I say, he also participates in the workshop - 3 months with the possibility of extending up to 6 months. This is a step in this direction, although I think it is important for people with disabilities to have a chance to check out first through internship or practice, whether this is really the place where they want to work, they want to develop, they want to rehabilitate professionally. Mr Piechota spoke about the judgment of the Constitutional Court. That's not the bill. As we know, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment concerns the Family Benefits Act. Of course, work on this is ongoing, very closely linked to the work that is ongoing in the case law, because it concerns children with disabilities, but it also concerns adults with disabilities - their degree of independence is very different and it is worth supporting those carers or those with disabilities who need this assistance, care, and often this care requires very expensive measures. As far as supporting employment in the civil service is concerned, of course there are further preferences in the employment of people with disabilities. In addition to the "Student" programme, PFRON also introduced the "graduate" programme to help people with disabilities, especially with higher education, to find themselves in the labour market, and I therefore believe that the "graduate" project is a very important element in supporting the employment of people with disabilities. There is also PFRON's stable employment programme - we discuss and conclude agreements with Polish Post, with other large companies, we want to prepare employers for hiring people with disabilities. However, the state must also bear in mind that the labour market for people with disabilities is much more difficult at the moment. People with disabilities who could and wanted to work are working, unemployment among people with disabilities has fallen. For example, in the BON, which passed this year, we twice announced recruitment for an employee with preferences for a disabled person. As part of the first recruitment, none of the disabled people came forward, and one person who informed us that she had been given better working conditions in another place and did not work with us. So it's not that, in fact, when it comes to public administration, there are a lot of people willing to take up employment. No, there aren't that many people in Warsaw. We're trying to talk to the voivodship offices, and we think it's going to be possible in the field to a greater extent. As regards the waiver of duality - of course, it is preserved, since, after the decision which follows, it is possible to refer again to the President of PFRON, or to file a complaint directly to the administrative court and, above all, the court ensures that the administrative decisions that PFRON takes are instant and controlled. On the other hand, the solution introduced had only one objective: to simplify and make life easier for employers, because these appeals take a very, very long time, and this prolonged procedure is often very costly for employers and employees, because it is certainly a problem. The National Consultative Board, of course, received a draft of this law, received information about the comments that were made during the consultation. She was not able to draw up an opinion, but of course she would participate and participate in the Lifetime Programme, and certainly there was no problem of lack of openness on our part, but there was such a problem that it was difficult to agree on opinions within the consultative board. The entry into force is also a problem... We wanted to make life easier for employers, but it will be the Members who will decide whether it is actually one day or more. Mrs Chasing wondered about the financing of clubs. Of course, they are guaranteed funding under the PFRON programme. Why the PFRON program? We were wondering if we could put this in the algorithm, but as you know, not every county has a workshop for occupational therapy, not every district will run a club, so we think that a special program will be more purposeful, but of course we remember that funding must be guaranteed, and we will certainly be watching it. The PFRON programme must be adopted by the Supervisory Board and I can safely say that the Supervisory Board will adopt this programme. When it comes to combining functions in the organisation, on the management board of the organisation with work in the workshop of occupational therapy, this is a difficult topic, because on the one hand we all love NGOs and we want to appreciate as much as possible those who take time and engage in their activities, but on the other hand we also want to ensure the safety of participants in the course, the safety of people with disabilities. The problem is not the lack of willingness to combine social activity with work. The problem is that if a non-governmental organisation is a founding body and it supervises and controls a workshop of occupational therapy, then if the person who is the chairman of the board and at the same time controls the manager of the workshop is the same person, then we can consider whether this control is appropriate, adequate, whether it guarantees the safety of the participants and the security of the funds that are in the workshop. Is this for discussion? Yeah, it's for discussion. I hope that at the committee meeting we will discuss, but once again: you know very well who the participants in the occupational therapy workshops are, how easily they can be used. I think that - remember this too - it is worth supporting the creation of workshops for occupational therapy, it is worth to be in favour of building support systems for people with disabilities, but it is also worth remembering the safety of people with disabilities because they themselves often do not complain about abuse towards themselves. Speaking first of all about looking a little wider at the whole discussion, I would like to remind you that we are also talking about the rights of people with disabilities in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We talk a lot about the subjectivity of people with disabilities, we talk a lot about deinstitutionalisation, but in discussions we often act as if we forgot that people with disabilities are actors who can express their expectations, needs, and decide about their lives. Maybe it's too easy for us to put their fate in the hands of guardians, non-governmental workers. I'm not saying it's not important, but I want you to remember two sides of the medal and both try to take it into account. Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska spoke a lot about the things that are being raised by the staff of the occupational therapy workshop. We say that after six months the comprehensive assessment is too early. After all, the workshops of occupational therapy are attended by people who have already been evaluated before, after all they do not take people from the street, without judgment, without evaluation. Second thing: How do you work in a workshop of occupational therapy without judging your participant? What's this rehabilitation plan supposed to look like? [[But first, we need to get the program ready.]] Exactly, but in order to prepare a program, you have to evaluate and diagnose a person first. How would you like to prepare a program without diagnosis? I don't know, I remember from my practice that we first diagnosed, discussed with a person about her needs and expectations, and only later did we actually create a program, but maybe the times have changed, now maybe the program and then the evaluation. [[There's an evaluation of the effects, Minister.]] Yes, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u113	Minister, answer the questions, not go into polemics. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: I already told you about combining work on the board with work at WTZ. When it comes to creating workshops for occupational therapy, I believe that this is a mistake, not a benefit for people with disabilities, that in one district there can be six workshops and bring participants from half the voivodship, and in another district there is no workshop. We want every district where there are needs to have as many workshops as it will satisfy the needs of people living there, people with disabilities, so that every county feels responsible for its disabled residents, and not that organizations, employees decide whether to create a workshop or not to create it. However, they may take into account the needs that exist in a given area, i.e. How many people are disabled there, how many people want to get to the workshop, how many people can't get to the workshop. I believe that this is important and that this should be taken into account. [[Who's gonna finance this?]] I told you about the appeals, so I'm not gonna talk again. Valorisation of care allowance. I agree, it's actually starting to be amounts that don't change much, they're certainly not enough. We are certainly thinking about it and we are analysing it, but of course we must also take into account the timetable for the work on the budget, because of course this money must be first and foremost included in the budget that the High House will adopt. On the other hand, I believe that actually and the nursing allowance, and the care supplement have lost their character after so many years of lack of valorization. I've told you a little bit about connecting the function. We will discuss in committee, but I believe that you must also remember that the constituent bodies of the workshops also perform supervisory and control functions. I'm not saying it can't be combined, but it's very difficult to combine functions. I can't imagine how you can control yourself, supervise, account, judge, and so on. Maybe you can. If you feel that way, it will, of course, be deleted or changed. I was talking about combining functions, about funding in clubs. I told you. We analyzed in the case of clubs, whether to finance them from an algorithm or from a program. Looks like it's coming from the show for now. If it turns out we have to change it, we'll be open for a change. There's also a record where we talked about funding the WTZs. If the workshop makes money, we wanted the counties not to treat it so that it's the 10%. That needs to be added. We believe that on the one hand the county is going to add 10% , and additional appropriations are to be additional appropriations. It's not supposed to be 10%. which is financed by the counties. That's what this recipe is all about. If he's ill-written, we can discuss it. But I don't think there's any reason to relieve the county of responsibility, for example, to finance workshops at this symbolic height. We talked a little bit about missing seats, too. In fact, we want every county to have a workshop. We think it's a shame that some counties don't want to start these workshops, they don't want to finance them. We believe that every disabled person is to be able to use such a form of rehabilitation and support. As far as district disability courts are concerned, they are of course controlled and supervised by regional disability decision boards. You can appeal, the regional teams are also supposed to supervise. It is also possible to appeal to the court, so the court is also a body that supervises and evaluates judgments. We are mainly engaged in training, so that those who judge have the same knowledge, the same definitions, apply the same standards, so that, in fact, no matter where a person goes, there is a similar judgment. Mrs Tomaszewska, you are right, there are still no developed forms of care for adults with disabilities and their support. At the moment, we are trying to create a programme of coordinated care for people who have become disabled at adult age as part of European measures. At the moment, intensive work is underway on a strategy for people with disabilities. As part of the Responsible Development Strategy, there is also, as one of the strategies, a strategy for people with disabilities. Work on it is advanced, the assumptions are ready. There is also intensive work on such a program, which also results from a strategy for accessible and friendly Poland, so that also for people with disabilities, elderly people, people who for various reasons have limited opportunities, communication or movement, Poland becomes available. The programme is also underway. So we remember things, but we ask for a little time so that we can finish this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister, for these explanations. Mr Sławomir Piechot, Civic Platform, will now speak as a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u114	Thank you, Marshal. Probably because of the narrow framework of this speech, I was not clear enough. Two things I'd like to go back to then. The issue of this support for employment in public administration. I do not think there is a representative labour market in Warsaw. This is much more about those local labour markets, where people often come back with quite good, high qualifications, after college, stand for competitions and do not have preferences in these competitions. It is necessary to find this new mechanism in order for different types of offices, offices, public institutions to be obliged to make such a notification if they meet all the substantive criteria, to deal with priority. The second point, this bi-instantity. Minister, I don't understand why you want to lose sight of how PFRON works, because this is one of the most important elements of this insight. It is de facto that this two-instant administrative procedure is terminated. This court is a judicial review. This is a very long procedure and for these decisions [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll have to wait a long time. I would like to reconsider this so that, above all, the representative, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, can see how PFRON works. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u115	Thank you very much. I think we're gonna consider this during committee work, unless the Minister wants to... No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. The amendments to the above laws are needed in order to carry out the activities which include the Lifetime Programme. The main objective of the proposed changes is to support families with disabled people and in particular children with disabilities, as well as to create support mechanisms for families. The proposed changes are designed to support former participants in occupational therapy workshops in maintaining self-reliance not only in social life but also in professional life. It has a new form of club activities to serve it. Currently, the activities carried out in the framework of occupational therapy workshops do not meet expectations. At the time of finding a job, those using them were left unsupported when they were not yet fully ready to act on their own. Participation in club activities aimed at people who have completed their participation in workshops, will fill this gap and help to build their professional and social security in the workplace. At the same time, I think it's not enough to set five hours of club activities a month as a minimum. I think the duration of such activities should be at least 10 hours a month. I hope that this issue will still be discussed during the work on the draft in committee. The amended legislation aims to increase flexibility in the organisation of working time rules and will support: women in complicated pregnancy, parents of a child certified with a severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth, and families with a disabled child or with special educational needs. I believe that it is essential to help those who have sick children and also want to remain active in the labour market. The new rules introduce the possibility to work in the form of teleworking, as well as flexible forms of working time organisation at the request of a binding employer and to work in the form of teleworking on general principles. The amendments made to the laws are well-founded and necessary for the implementation of the actions which have been included in the Life Programme. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of sending the bill to work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u117	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws, contained in print No 2215, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (print No 2154). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michał Woś to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The fundamental assumption behind this draft revision of the Penal Code is the need to strengthen the protection of the victims of these most brutal and terrifying crimes such as rape, rape with particular cruelty and rape against minors, the protection of victims of criminal law in actions that undermine the fundamental legal good of freedom, including sexual freedom. Of course, criminal law is an instrument designed to satisfy a social sense of security and justice. This function of criminal law is properly and effectively carried out when the threats of criminal sanctions for acts of high social harm are shaped at an appropriate level, and also when the intended criminal response is multifaceted, i.e. when other measures, in particular preventive or compensatory, are applied in addition to penalties. The designer's idea is precisely to rationalise the criminal response to criminal offences specifically directed against sexual freedom - which will more fully reflect the nature of the act and the threat posed by the perpetrator. At the same time, it is clear that in cases of violent behaviour, special cruelty, escalation of harm and suffering for the victim, and in relation to perpetrators acting in conditions of return to the crime, i.e. under conditions of redecision, or threatening the recurrence of such behaviour, criminal response measures should aim at lasting, long-term isolation of the perpetrators, sometimes even indefinitely, when necessary in view of the nature of the act and the need to ensure security for the public. The shape of the proposed changes is mainly due to the analysis of the legal status of offences against sexual freedom in Poland and the practice of applying this right on the basis of the statistics we have collected at the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the analysis relating to specific institutions from other countries, particularly European ones. According to the analysis of these data, in particular data relating to penalties already legally imposed for the offence of rape in 2016, 376 convictions in Article are found. 197 § 1 of the Criminal Code as many as 127 penalties were imposed against the conditional suspension of their execution, i.e. actually 1/3 of the penalties were suspended. These are penalties imposed below the statutory lower limits, with the benefit of extraordinary relief of punishment, and additionally suspended. Moreover, even in the case of collective rape and rape against a minor under the age of 15, i.e. the most violent crimes from the perspective of the Penal Code, about 10% The sentence was punishable by imprisonment with a conditional suspension of its execution - five out of 55 convictions and eight out of 79, respectively. These figures point to a flawed structure of conviction, which does not correspond to the degree of social harm to crimes against sexual freedom and does not ensure effective and effective prevention of this crime. There are four very important changes in the general section of the Penal Code in the project. The first amendment is the introduction of an additional basis for a mandatory criminal decision in the form of a ban on contacting the victim, a restraining order against the victim, and an order to leave the premises held together with the victim in the event of a conviction against sexual freedom. The mandatory judgment of this criminal measure by the court would be at the request of the injured person who will be able to assess to the fullest extent whether his or her personal interests in the form of safety and mental comfort require protection. Unfortunately, this was not a mandatory ruling so far, and there have been cases where rape victims, victims of these most brutal crimes, sometimes even by accident - sometimes these are crimes that occur in the area of one community - with the perpetrators of crimes near their place of residence. The second very important amendment proposed is the introduction of a new basis for the lex specialis recidivism in relation to the special decision provided for in Article. 64 § 1 of the Criminal Code. The foundation of an institution leading to an extraordinary tightening is the arrangement of two intentional crimes against sexual liberty or the morality committed by the same perpetrator: prior to which the person was sentenced to imprisonment and re-incarcerated by the same person within 5 years of serving at least 6 months of the first offence. The consequence of this recidivism will be... There is a proposal that punishment should be imposed within the limits not below the double level of the lower level of the threat of punishment, this is a sentence of imprisonment. A third change in the general section of the Penal Code is the possibility of excluding conditional early release in the event of a life sentence against the perpetrator of the murder in connection with the rape of a minor committed in connection with sexual preference disorders. The fourth amendment in the general section of the Criminal Code is the identification of the types of criminal offences for which juveniles who commit a criminal offence between the ages of 15 and 17 may be responsible. There are two fundamental changes in the special section of the Penal Code. The first is the introduction of new types of qualified rape crime. The circumstances affecting a more severe threat of punishment are: the use of firearms, knives or other similarly dangerous object or debilitating agent or otherwise directly life-threatening action; the admission of rape against a pregnant woman if the perpetrator knew this or could easily have known; the fixation of the image or sound from the course of the act; the consequence of serious harm to human health and the consequence of human death. The second change in the special section of the Penal Code is to increase the penalties for these most brutal crimes, i.e. to increase the lower and upper limit of the statutory threat. For the offence of rape against a minor under 15 years of age - the current sentence is between 3 and 15 years of imprisonment - the proposed amendment provides for a sentence of imprisonment from 5 to 15 years or a sentence of 25 years of imprisonment. For the crime of rape with special cruelty - the current sentence is between 5 and 15 years imprisonment - the proposed penalty is between 5 and 15 years or 25 years imprisonment. And in the third case, prison sentences, which were linked to a particular torment - the current sentence is between 3 and 15 years - the proposed penalty is between 5 and 15 years or 25 years of imprisonment. Of course, the proposal also provides for changes related to the above mentioned in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Changes would be linked to a criminal measure. There is a time limit within which the victim may apply for a judgment of a criminal measure in the form of a prohibition of contact. There are also two amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure related to a new form of redecisive. There are also a number of amendments to the Enforcement Penal Code, which are driven by the need to treat the offenders of this new proposed article. 64a of the Penal Code at least as restrictively as those of the recidivists whose treatment is provided for in the current legal form, which is the same as the recidivists in the article. 64 § 2 of the Criminal Code. Undoubtedly, the tightening of penalties for such brutal crimes, the most brutal, most terrifying, linked to sexual freedom, rape, rape with special cruelty, rape against minors, is necessary and necessary, and I ask the High House to take a favourable look at this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u119	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No 2154. The aim of the project is to increase criminal protection against criminal acts against sexual freedom, against customs. Of course, the discussion on how we should fight such crimes is ongoing. Indeed, the common sense of society is that the law in this area is too mild, that even if the perpetrator of rape or rape with particular cruelty is brought before a court, the sentence that is given is often not very strict. This always happens on the one hand to the disappointment of victims of this type of crime, but also on the other hand to the surprise of public opinion, of course. Of course, state action can go in multiple directions here, because also in the educational sphere, and in the preventive sphere, also in the healing sphere, but also on the one hand the criminal rules are tightening, and on the other hand, these new rules will, of course, be applied in some way by the courts. The legislator's decision also sends a signal to the justice system in some way that the state expects sex offenders to be punished with all severity. Of course, in this case, it is the designer's intention to make such an rationalisation of the criminal response to prohibited acts, especially against sexual freedom, which will more fully reflect the nature of the act and the threat posed by the perpetrator. It is clear, however, that in cases of violent behaviour, special cruelty, escalation of harm and suffering for the victim, and in relation to perpetrators acting under the conditions of redecisive or threatening to renew such behaviour, criminal response measures should aim at lasting, long-term and even unlimited isolation of perpetrators when necessary in view of the nature of the act and the need to ensure the safety of the public. The proposed amendments focus on two areas, namely, on the one hand, the modification of certain provisions in the general section of the Criminal Code, and on the other, the extension of the category of criminal offences and the tightening of criminal liability in the specific section. In the general part, these changes will consist in a mandatory court ruling in the event of a crime against sexual liberty prohibiting the victim from contacting or approaching the victim at his request, introducing a special rule on the more stringent liability of perpetrators of crimes against sexual liberty and vices acting in the conditions of return to the offence, creating a basis for excluding the use of a conditional early release from the remainder of the sentence of life imprisonment in relation to the perpetrator of the murder in connection with the rape of a minor under 15 years old. On the other hand, in a specific section, this will be a tightening of criminal liability for the offence of deprivation of liberty combined with particular torment by increasing the lower limit of the statutory threat of imprisonment up to the age of 5 and indicating a maximum sentence as 25 years imprisonment. There will also be a modification of the provisions concerning the offence of the rape of those who are members of the Article. 197 Penal Code. In our view, these provisions, this proposal [[♪ The bell ♪]] is a legitimate, deliberate and necessary and Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the proposal be directed to further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws contained in the Seym printing No 2154. Proposals propose changes to offences against sexual freedom, including extending the catalogue of qualified types, tightening penalties and introducing new rules of liability for perpetrators returning to the crime, which is commonly referred to as redecises. There is no doubt that rape is a high-quality crime that undermines human freedom in the most intimate sphere of life. Therefore, it is our shared responsibility to ensure that the proposed solutions are adopted as widely as possible under the parliamentary agreement, which will guarantee their continuity and stability. This was the case, for example, during this term of office, when we adopted rules tightening the penalties for offences against minors, and so it was in the previous term, for example, when the Government of the Civic Platform introduced the principle of prosecuting sexual offences ex officio and not only at the request of the victim, and also increasing the procedural protection of such a person. It is certainly important to respond positively to the proposal to change the criminal liability of those returning to the crime, namely the introduction of an article. 64a to the Penal Code. This regulation, which is a kind of lex specialis, will strengthen the responsibility of these perpetrators and this issue is not a matter of concern. On the plus side, the introduction of Article should also be assessed. 197 The criminal code of new types of qualified rape offences with the statutory tightening of penalties. The proposal to introduce a new regulation in Article should also be considered worthy of consideration. 77 Penal Code. It would give the court the possibility to exclude conditional immunity from the execution of the sentence in the sentence of life sentence against the perpetrator of the murder in connection with the rape of a minor under the age of 15 committed in connection with sexual preference disorders if there is at least a high likelihood of committing or threatening to use a criminal offence. As a Civic Platform, we share the concerns and concerns raised during the public consultation. First of all, the result of the new solution may be that the sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of its conditional suspension may be imposed on sixteen. - or 17-year-olds. This raises doubts as to the compatibility of this regulation with European standards for the protection of human rights. All of this puts the proposed solutions under a very large question mark. One last question, which is the tightening of penalties. We all know that the current management of the Ministry of Justice, led by Minister Ziobra, likes to use a simple mechanism on the principle that there is a problem, that just sharpen the penalties. If it were that simple, all crimes should be punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 25 and then crime would disappear at all. Yeah, but we know it doesn't work that way. Anyone who deals with criminal law at least a little bit, and in particular the subject of sanctions, knows that their effectiveness does not depend solely on their severity. Above all, it is important to feel the inevitability of punishment, the effectiveness of detecting the perpetrator and executing the penalty. As a reason for the debate, I would like to recall a certain comparison which I heard in one of the debates on the state's formation of criminal policy. Many people do not buy public transport tickets, because they know that there is little risk of controlling or catching them in the act, i.e. de facto punishing them for this offence. Controllers are few and don't get on filled buses, and even if they do, they're still charging about 60 and 70%. So the inevitability of punishment is low. It's completely different on trains. There is almost 100 percent confidence in ticket checks. That's why so few people risk taking stowaways on trains. This simple example from everyday life clearly shows the essence of viewing the principles of criminal policy. That is why it is so important to constantly improve, professionalise police officers and prosecutors, but also build educational policy, conduct special activities in schools and develop legal awareness, support NGOs that support victims of crimes against sexual freedom. And on these levels, it is in vain to find the success of the current government. For example, the limits to funding the Blue Line or support associations have been echoed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rape victims. I therefore appeal to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice present here: we will consider the work of this bill as the beginning of a wider debate on the real and comprehensive fight against this hideous phenomenon of sexual crimes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the bill be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish criminal law after 1989 was created in the spirit of liberalism. Tonnes of these changes were given by the Krakow school of criminal law, which was led by professors Zoll and Buchał. Liberal tendencies were not only gaining the applause of the legal community, the political class, but were also received well by Poles who remembered how instrumentally they used criminal sanctions during the period of the Polish People's Republic. However, this memory did not last long, because Poles saw the state's growing defencelessness towards criminals. Liberal enthusiasm led, among others. to the liquidation of the confiscation institution, which only now, after more than a quarter of a century, under the concept of expanded confiscation, returned to the Polish system of criminal law. Thanks to the liberal school of criminal law, for 27 years it was possible to steal Poland with impunity and steal from Poles. It was the liberal professors from Krakow who persuaded politicians to replace the death penalty not with life imprisonment, but with the punishment of 25 years of imprisonment, because criminals are rehabilitated. And lex Trynkiewicz was born. Pedophiles and killers are gradually leaving prisons because the professors have deceived politicians with the fiction of rehabilitation. If we read the textbooks of criminal law and comments from that time, we can see that their main purpose in criminal policy is to extend the power of judges as much as possible in the field of shaping the dimension of penalties. Hence the low lower limits of the threat of imprisonment, but also relatively low upper limits, this time in the name of liberal ideology. I have worked in the justice system for many years and I know that the path set in criminal policy after 1989 with little exceptions, when the Minister of Justice was Lech Kaczyński and the successors of his thought, was wrong. And you can see that, ladies and gentlemen, in the case law on sex crimes. Every third rapist is sentenced to probation. I would like to remind you of the judgment that occurred in the White District Court in the case of collective rape in Pietrzykowice in December 2013. The accused, including the son of a well-known politician, were found guilty and received penalties from 1 year and 3 months to 2 years suspended for 5 years. Here's another thing. When no one was home, Piotr G. entered the room where little 2-year-old Nikola, his daughter, slept in her crib, and brutally raped her. Then he left the mutilated child and went drinking. The injured girl was found by her mother. How much did Piotr G. get from the Polish judge? Five years. He could've done three times that. And that's an unacceptable thing. We have a situation where 10% The perpetrators of child rape don't go to jail because the judges are sanctioning probation. I am very sad to say this, but we have reached a critical point where the state, namely the executive and legislative authority, must protect citizens not from sexual offenders, but from the judges raised on Professor Zoll's textbooks. In short, we now have a situation where the protective function of criminal law has been completely deformed by irresponsible case law. It is now our role to restrict this judge's recognition so that the state effectively defends the victims against perverts, rapists and paedophiles, because as I said, the judges have applied the suspension of prison sentences even against the perpetrators of child rapes. It should also be made clear that rape is a specific category of crime, where the percentage of return, or popular recidivism, is twice as high as the average. Therefore, designers are right to introduce the obligation to increase the lower limit of the statutory threat and to tighten the conditions for conditional early release. It is particularly satisfying to note that the designer saw the problem of children as victims of rape. That's why the signs of rape with special cruelty were supplemented in the project by the birthmark of rape of a minor under the age of 15. It also welcomes the fact that the projector noted the issue of the execution of sanctions against sex offenders, and in particular the need to increase funding for the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissociable Behaviours in Gostynin. It must be acknowledged that this government's criminal policy is a breakthrough policy in thinking about the state's criminal response to crime. There is nothing to hide that the previous governments were blinking their eyes at criminals - and not just those in white collars. Our goal is to protect citizens from criminals. Our goal is to increase repression. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rapists. And these goals connect us with the authors of the project, which will receive the support of the Kukiz club15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u126	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 2154. This bill aims to strengthen criminal protection in actions that undermine fundamental legal rights, such as freedom, including sexual freedom. The proposed solutions focus in two areas, i.e. the modification of the selected institutions of the general Penal Code with regard to their application to perpetrators of crimes against sexual liberty and customs and the extension of the category of criminal offences and the tightening of criminal liability for certain categories of offences. The introduction of a mandatory judgment by a court in the event of a criminal offence against sexual liberty should be regarded as a positive aspect of the proposed project, in the case of a ban on contacting or approaching the victim at his request, and in the case of a special regulation which provides for stricter liability for perpetrators of crimes against sexual liberty and customs in the event of a return to the offence. The draft also includes a number of provisions tightening criminal liability for certain crimes, particularly linked to particular cruelty, by increasing the lower limit of the threat of punishment for these offences to 5 years of imprisonment. But in these positive aspects, unfortunately, it should also be noted that, during the consultation on the draft Supreme Court's comment, which clearly points out that, in principle, the sanctions for rape are in line with the sanctions for murder, and this can unfortunately lead to very negative consequences for victims of rape. Unfortunately, criminals can act in the right way for themselves, so they can try to eliminate those who are being raped. The Ministry rejected this request by the Supreme Court without indicating any justification as to why it considers otherwise, as well as draws attention to the proposed article. 77 § 3 of the Penal Code providing for the possibility for the courts to exclude the sentence of a life sentence for the benefit of a conditional early release from the criminal proceedings laid down in that provision. Such regulation has been recognised by the European Court of Human Rights as violating the prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment resulting from the Article. 3 conventions. It seems that the proposed draft amendments to the Criminal Code aim to introduce penalties which are purely insulating, but do not see any elements relating to the rehabilitation of criminals as regards the proposed penalties. It has already been mentioned here that the essence is not merely raising and tightening penalties. The essence is the inevitability of punishment. Please note, however, that in the area of criminal law policy of the current government, we are dealing with another proposal for a partial revision of the Penal Code. In fact, at each meeting, the High House deals with the Penal Code. I think it would be more appropriate to introduce one major revision of the Penal Code, not to empathise at each meeting of the Sejm with partial changes to this type of regulation. This is contrary to the principles of correct legislation and legal certainty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modern Posel Club requests that the project be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made a statement in writing. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u128	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 2154. The applicant's objective is to ensure that the adoption of the project submitted contributes to the strengthening of the criminal protection of legal assets as fundamental as freedom, including sexual freedom. It is therefore proposed to amend the provisions of four laws: the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code of Enforcement and the Act on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. The validity of the project's objectives appears to be indicated by the above data on valid convictions for crimes against sexual liberty and customs - chapter XXV of the Penal Code. In particular, it is the most frequently committed rape crime and its eligible types regulated by Article. 197 Penal Code. In 2016, 376 convictions for the offence of rape by an article. 197 § 1 of the Criminal Code up to 1/3 of the penalties, i.e. 127, has been designated with conditional suspension of their execution. In other words, one third of the penalty has been imposed below the statutory lower limit by applying an extraordinary relaxation of the penalty and conditional suspension of its execution. Many of these issues have been reported by the media, even the loudest. It is about the State State's programme on the rape of an epileptic translator from Elbląg, for whom the perpetrators were sentenced to penalties with a conditional suspension of their execution. According to statistics, such penalties are also rare in the case of even more serious offences qualified in the Criminal Code as crimes of collective rape and rape against a minor under the age of 15. It was noted that up to 10% All convictions were convictions for imprisonment with conditional suspension of execution. Despite the fact that each of the cases should be treated individually, such indulgent treatment of rapists by courts should be regarded as particularly appalling and not corresponding to the degree of social harm done by them. Moreover, by giving such low judgments, the protection of victims is illusory. The applicant therefore proposes to amend the Article. 197 The Penal Code so that the type of person who is qualified under § 3 who is punishable by imprisonment for a period of not less than 3 years adds cases of rape offences: if the perpetrator uses firearms, a knife or other similar dangerous object or restraint or otherwise acts directly threatening the life of the pregnant woman, if the perpetrator knew that she was pregnant or could easily find out about it, or if the perpetrator retains a picture or sound from the course of the act. Paragraph 4 provides for increased criminal liability. It is a sentence of imprisonment for 5 years or 25 years of imprisonment when the perpetrator is allowed to rape a minor under 15 or if the perpetrator of an act referred to in § 1 In contrast, in the added § 5 The applicant shall provide that, if the act referred to in paragraph 1 is the result of the death of a person, the perpetrator shall be punishable by imprisonment from the years 8, he shall punish 25 years of imprisonment or life imprisonment. In addition, in order to strengthen liability to perpetrators acting under a redecisive condition involving acts against sexual liberty and customs, the applicant proposes the introduction of the provision of Article into the Criminal Code. 64a constituting lex specialis in relation to the general principles of criminal liability under the conditions of recidivism laid down in Article. 64 Penal Code. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 64a will be the responsibility of the perpetrator who has previously committed a deliberate crime against sexual liberty or vice against imprisonment, who has again committed a deliberate crime against sexual liberty or vice within 5 years of serving at least 6 months. In the event of such an perpetrator, a court on the basis of a legal basis should impose a sentence of imprisonment within the limits of the double level of the lower threat to the upper limit of the statutory threat increased by half. It is also worth noting that the proposal also tightens up the liability of the offence of unlawful imprisonment combined with the particular torment contained in the article. 189 § 3 of the Criminal Code. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Free and Solidarni Members [[♪ The bell ♪]] positively refers to the draft law as a whole. In our view, its adoption will fully meet the objectives set by the government in terms of criminal protection in terms of actions that undermine human freedom. We ask that the project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u129	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In many European countries, penalties for rapists are usually much higher than those currently in force in Poland. This draft of the Ministry of Justice brings them closer to penalties in other European countries. For example, in France or Austria, the penalty for rape resulting in death begins for 10 years. The French have been punishing the child for rape that causes severe health damage or rape for 10 years. In Italy, he's been in prison for six years. As far as the revised bill is concerned, I believe that the lower ceiling of the forks should be increased in relation to the child rape penalties designed in this project, because it should not be for 2 years, but at least 5 years or more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Children's rapists and killers belong to the worst category of criminals. Will this be taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Such acts as child rape, but also on adults, are cruelty, which is why I think there should be high penalties. So far in Poland, penalties are disproportionate to actions. The proposed provisions in the Act are insufficient in my opinion. Is the government planning a wider debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u133	Thank you very much, Member. And last question, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin is very much needed. Its completion has already been planned for a year. You are pointing out in this project that unfortunately this year we will not be able to see this centre, but it will be built by the end of 2020. In these materials I did not find any information at what stage this investment is currently at, because in these materials we are dealing only with information about the reasons for any delay. At what stage is this? 'Cause I see that there's a certain amount of money planned here, a fixed one, and it's all cool, and this investment is already very late. I'm counting on him to be kept on that date. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u135	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Woś. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the vote of support, especially Mrs Chrobak and the Kukiz Club15, for this good lecture on the consequences of the liberal criminal policy of the country with which we are determined to end, and in the last 30 years, we can only say, during the reign of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński and previous governments of Minister Ziobra somehow managed to oppose this liberal criminal policy. We continue this thought as much as possible and we will continue. As regards the general debate, I would like to refer to two false statements that were made during the presentation of the positions of the clubs. Mr Myrcha of the Platform pointed out that there is a risk that the amendment will result in the possibility of applying life imprisonment to persons under 18 years of age. No, it's not. We have an article in the Penal Code. 54 § 2, which expressly states that such a penalty is imposed on persons under the age of 18, simply does not appear and in this respect we do not change in any way and we do not want to change the rules in any way. As for the indication that we are equalizing that there is equal punishment for rape and murder - this is the position of the Modern Club - this, Mr President, also does not agree, is not reflected in the facts, because at the moment there is a penalty for murder for 5 years of imprisonment and for rape for 5 years of imprisonment, so there is no compensation here, the murder is still severely punished. In one case we are actually equalizing this penalty - 8 years, namely if the result of rape is the death of a person, i.e. de facto equalizing the fatal outcome with the murder, and this is the case. On the other hand, the statement that the rape penalty will be equal to the homicide penalty is not quite true is not true. There has been quite a lot here, in turn from the Civic Platform Club, information about the fact that not harsh punishment, but the inevitability of punishment is important and in this inevitability we should have a debate, and that supposedly the government closed down the Blue Line, supposedly the government restricts organizations supporting the victims of these crimes. What I'm trying to say is that this is absolutely not true. Many times from this speaker and I personally pointed out, and other representatives of the Ministry of Justice pointed to concrete facts that this is simply a false, lying claim. The Blue Line is still functioning. It is operated, in accordance with the 2015 agreement, by PARPA. This is a line that is free, and the number starts: 0800, is financed by the state, is 24/7, there is professional psychological assistance, etc. This famous media blue or blue line, yes, was run by one of the organizations, but it was paid, it wasn't 24/7, it was only run by one of the organizations that eventually led it somewhere further. However, this is not the line that the State provides. The State shall provide this assistance at all times. As to the claims that the state does not support organisations, especially those involved in the aid of victims, victims of crime, I would like to say that this is yet another untruth. Well, it was recently decided, on Friday, it seems, last week, another contest, for the next year, in terms of support for victims, psychological support, witness support. Year by year this assistance is extended, more funding is allocated, more organisations are available, but maybe they are less media. These are not those organizations that will be shown later on various televisions or on different stripes, but aid is being extended. That's a fact, that's something you can't argue with. There's more organization and more resources. As regards the specific questions, Mr Pampuch, Mr Pampuch, the question about the dissociative centre should be addressed to the Ministry of Health, because this is their responsibility and this is theirs, the Ministry of Health, the contribution to the bill and the OSR, so I would be grateful for passing this question to the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to answer that question satisfactorily to you. As for Mrs Krzywonos' question, this is a bit strange, I am glad that Mrs Krzywonos has noticed that the penalties in Poland need to be tightened. We at the Ministry of Justice are working on the reform of the Criminal Code, on the reform of the state of criminalisation or, as such, on the state's approach to the criminal system and we want to tighten up all these penalties. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the position of the Civic Platform club it was rather stressed that it was not the severity of the penalty that is important, but the inevitability. We, as a government, do believe that the inevitability of punishment is important, we know all these theories, but we cannot, focusing on this inevitability, fire a child with a bath. The severity of the penalty is also very important, it is also dissuasive and it certainly works in the country, it must be included in the penitentiary policy, in the state's criminal policy. As for the question made by Małgorzata Płępek, you have proposed, Mrs Płępek, to increase the penalties against the perpetrators of the rape of minors up to 5 years in prison because you pointed out that there are two years in prison. That is what this project is about. There are two years in prison in this project right now, and we want to raise this sentence to five years in prison. Moreover, in the case of this particular recidivist, it will be 10 years. Yes, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u137	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u138	I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 2154. In the proposed revision of the Penal Code, the government introduces inter alia. The sentence of life imprisonment for a person who, as a result of rape, will lead to the death of a person. Today, such punishment, apart from murder, is only at risk of man's death as a consequence of severe injury to health. The Justice Department's proposal also assumes that the court will be able to exclude the possibility of being released from prison by a convicted parole officer by way of a life sentence for the perpetrator of the murder in connection with the rape of a person under 15 years of age. Today, some perpetrators of such acts are free early. The authors of the project also want to tighten the penalty for rape committed with particular cruelty. The current sentence for such an act is between 5 and 15 years imprisonment. According to the draft, the court will also be able to apply 25 years of imprisonment in such a case. In addition, the current wording of this provision has been supplemented by causing serious harm to the victim's health, for which the same increased penalty (currently between 3 and 15 years of imprisonment) will also be threatened. The proposed amendment also provides that rape committed on a child under the age of 15 will be a criminal offence punishable by punishment from 5 (today 3) to 15 years or even 25 years of imprisonment. In addition to aggravating circumstances such as special cruelty, redecision or death, the penalty will be increased accordingly until life imprisonment, without the possibility of a conditional release. The authors of the project also want to introduce into the Penal Code a recipe for rape on a pregnant woman. If the unsub knew or could easily have found out that his victim was pregnant, he would go to prison for a period of between 3 and 15. The same dimension of punishment would threaten a rapist who used firearms, a dangerous object, e.g. with a knife, an overpowering agent, e.g. A rape pill, or otherwise acted directly threatening the victim's life. The sentence of imprisonment from 3 to 15 years would also apply to perpetrators who record the course of rape (image or sound). At present, rapes committed under such circumstances are not treated as a crime, but as acts at risk of basic punishment for rape, i.e. from 2 to 12 years imprisonment. The government project also heightens the sanction for rapists. Those who again commit rape after being convicted will have to face multiple punishments. This penalty, as proposed by the MS, should be applied within the limits not below the double level of the lower risk to the upper limit of the statutory risk increased by half. If, for example, A rapist will commit a crime for which two to 12 years of imprisonment threatens, and he will be sentenced to four to 18 years in prison in a redecisive case. The project also increases the penalty for torture against a imprisoned victim who is now facing three to 15 years of imprisonment. After the changes for unlawful imprisonment, which is linked to particular torment, the court will be able to send the perpetrator to prison for a period of between 5 and 15 years, and in the most severe cases even for 25 years. The Ministry of Justice also wants the court, at the request of the victim of a crime against sexual liberty, to apply to the sentenced person the prohibition of contacting the victim, approaching him or ordering him temporarily to leave the premises occupied together with the victim. The perpetrator would also systematically report to the police and the restraining order could be controlled in the electronic surveillance system. At present, such a sanction is only enforced by the court in the case of offences against sexual liberty or the morality of minors. After the changes, the court will still be able to rule on the prohibition of contact or approach, even if the victim does not request it. High Izbo! We are all appalled by media atrocities such as rapes and murders. We are particularly shocked by such violence against children. It is appropriate to agree with the authors of the project that our judicial system has often issued judgments in such cases which have upset the public opinion no less than the crimes in which the cases were ruled. A tightening of sanctions will satisfy the public's sense of justice. And here we see the main effect of the proposed changes. The question is whether this will actually affect the reduction in the number of offences of this category. According to police records, the number of rapes and homicides has been falling for years, without any tightening of penalties. In our view, we need more prevention, education and regular neighborhood vigilance. Many such crimes could be avoided if someone responded in time. The tightening of penalties should therefore be part of a broader, comprehensive policy, which is limited to the project under consideration and to criminal measures. On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I request that the project be submitted for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u139	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 2154, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the justification for the project. The Minister's not here. By the next point, do we have... I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 50 hrs 13 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws (Print No 2155). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u140	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The state's penitentiary system - because we will actually talk about it, the High Sejm - is a system if we look at it widely, which involves millions of people with its influence. Millions of people, because the penitentiary system are not only people to whom the penalty of absolute imprisonment is imposed, but also those to whom the sentence of limited imprisonment is enforced, apply various types of supervision, including the system of electronic supervision - i.e. we can look at it widely as a testing system of execution - I have already mentioned about it, after all various tools and elements associated with this system, i.e.. Passes. Under the influence of this system, there are several hundred thousand people directly dependent on the state, towards which the state has aspirations, the idea that they will one day join the normal functioning of our society. I used to give statistics that show that keeping a prisoner in a stationary penitentiary system is, from the point of view of you, a cost per citizen of over 3,000. zł. It's giant money. Given that the prison sentence in the stationary system is currently being executed in Poland against about 75 thousand. people and, as I said, at least the second number is covered by different elements of punishment in another way, it is easy to multiply that it is a system of road from the point of view of the citizen and from the point of view of the state. If we find effective tools for people who enter into conflict with the law to enter a normal society, then the Polish state will save on this double, because not only will it not have to spend money on the execution of penalties against these people, the creation of an isolation system, yet, if these people return to normal society, start working and will no longer enter into conflict with the law, it will be a positive element in the creation of the Polish economy. This may be part of the creation of the Polish economy if such a person returns to normal life. And if he still creates a family or is able to return to normal family life, that is a double profit for the state. What are the conditions for such a system in Poland to function better? One of the key components of this system is the functioning of the Prison Service. We went through... we tried to create a comparative system, i.e. compare what the Polish Prison Service looks like to similar institutions in other countries. We made a typical comparison, a comparatistic set. And from this it turns out that in countries where the penitentiary system as a whole functions better, one key element has been introduced, i.e. professional higher education which trains future staff corresponding to e.g. for rehabilitating people who are in conflict with the law. And when we tried to recognize what it looks like from a Polish point of view, we pointed out the following problems in the current training for work in the Prison Service. First of all, the recruitment process for the Prison Service is scattered and not very transparent at the moment, usually through the so-called. the basic units, i.e. in practice it looks like it is carried out through penal establishments in a given district. Secondly, training officers and employees to carry out their duties, particularly in the early days of service, is too weak institutionally, which is one word at the moment that the Prison Service has its own schools, but these are vocational schools, which are mostly based on the fact that one officer transfers his knowledge to another officer. After all, Polish science, Polish schools conduct extensive research, have their achievements in the field of rehabilitation, criminology, widely understood penitentiary, victimology, etc. Thirdly, there is a limited capacity for various level officers to solve the problems themselves and insufficient cooperation between officials of different departments. Fourthly, there are no clear criteria and opportunities for professional development, which is very important for those already in the system, but also for those who would decide to choose a career path related to the Prison Service. Finally, fifthly, there is no training system for civil servants of the Prison Service, it is a complementary element, complementary to our staff responsible for the penitentiary system. The additional information here is that the prison service, officers and civil servants, has about 30,000. persons. What do we propose? We propose, High Sejm, the introduction of a centralised recruitment to the Prison Service based on clear criteria, i.e. it will not be the same as at the moment, that in different units is accepted to work in different ways, only one central recruitment system for the Prison Service based on transparent for each criteria will be available. Secondly, we will create the conditions for the direct recruitment of parts of candidates for officers, i.e. any person who decides that he would like to use this professional path, will include criteria for professional development which are clear to him. A new service system is being introduced, so-called. candidate service. We also propose a new training mechanism for commanding officers based on an academic model. We create a new organizational unit in the Prison Service, i.e. institutions of the Prison Service and at the same time a new body of the Prison Service, i.e. Rector of the Head of the Prison Service University, who is included in senior positions in the Prison Service, where the service relationship is established on the basis of an act of appointment. Secondly, we are able to improve the qualifications within one industry university, which is important because today it is And the process is distracted. Changes in the organisation and methodology of vocational training are proposed, introduced through this school. Clear paths for career promotion and job changes are being set up and an effective system of professional improvement is put in place, which will finally have a unified form. The training requirements for the different bodies shall be laid down and an examination for a specific degree to which the officer must undergo vocational training shall be required. Thus, the High Sejm, we want to convert the existing ossified training structures in the Prison Service, based on vocational training, which unfortunately has its roots still in the Polish People's Republic, into a professional academy of penitentiary and criminology, into an academy that has the ambition to become a higher school, which will be a precursor to conducting research on the universally understood penitentiary work, has the ambition to create a true elite of this profession in Poland and to enable professional improvement for those people who are already in the system, has the ambition to become a real institutional entity that could work with similar universities in the world. That is why we are simply going - too late, I know that it is too late, but one day it must be done - from the PRL system to a modern training system, where it will not be the same as until now, that one officer trains another officer, although it is of course necessary, it will only be a system in which, let's say, half of the training will be this professional training, i.e. the officer will train the other officer, but the other half will already be academic training, where candidates for the Prison Service will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the scientific acquis, which in Poland really exists and is quite solid, from this scope, learning from the best people in Poland. In this way we will have candidates trained several times better than at the moment, which in turn will translate - I am convinced - on the quality of the system, on the decline in the level of return to crime, on better rehabilitation, also on better prevention. We will also develop elements of alternative measures against penalties, such as the above-mentioned test elements. We enter the 21st century with a full pair with the help of the new penitentiary academy, which will have the ambition to become a true university, training Polish elites in this very important profession. Finally, I must stress one more point, namely that the Prison Service in Poland is the third uniformed, fully mobilizable paramilitary service in Poland, fully mobilizable e.g. in case of war - to knock, I hope that it will never happen - therefore, it is the responsibility of the Polish state to ensure that the quality of this service is as high as possible for this reason, because the Prison Service is an element closing the security system of the whole state. Therefore, I ask you, High Sejm, to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u142	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice appreciates the government's draft law on amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The current legal status falling within the scope of this regulation is contained in the Prison Service Act of 9 April 2010 and in the provisions issued under the law. The government project responds to the urgent need to change the system of recruitment and training of candidates for the Prison Service through the establishment of a higher education institution of the Prison Service. Currently, prison does not have an internal system of self-training at the level of 1st and 2nd degree studies. One of the pillars of the government project is the idea of setting up a university as a model of proven solutions, because used for many years in the Polish Army or the Police, as well as the State Fire Department. The project provides for the separation of a new type of organizational unit in the Prison Service Act. The consequence of this amendment is the need to amend the Law on Higher Education to include a public university which will be supervised by the Minister of Justice, thereby granting the Minister of Justice the same powers currently available to the Minister of Home Affairs in those cases that concern him. The government project assumes that university graduates of the Prison Service will be better prepared than ever for multifaceted work with a criminal, to create modern penitentiary rehabilitation and to initiate social re-adaptation of criminals. The aim of the Act is to train staff able to have a positive impact on the quality of social life through better preparation of people leaving prison to live in a free society, in a manner consistent with legal and moral standards. The internal education system that is currently being implemented in the Prison Service is characterised by many shortcomings which, in our view, require urgent changes. The combination of aspects of academic and paramilitary education allows the creation of a practical profile study course, providing complementary and fully adapted training to the requirements of the Prison Service officer's profession. Such a system of education will reduce the security risks associated with the criminally isolated environment, which will strengthen the state security system. The competences that the Prison Service officers will gain will enable the efficient cooperation of the various services in emergency situations. Here it is also worth noting that most students of the future prison institution are to be officers and workers posted to training within the framework of the existing requirements in the formation. This will ensure a steady level of recruitment for university studies and improve the level of training of Prison Service staff. And it's worth reminding you that it's 30,000. workers with turnover of around 1200 people per year. Proposals for amendments to the Prison Service Act are the result of the introduction in the university of a funded training system within the framework of the candidate service. This solution results in the need to define a new form of service, which is called the candidate service in this legislative initiative. The second pillar of the government project is to change the rules for recruiting candidates for the Prison Service. The proposal for amendments to the Act contains the optimal solutions for the necessary centralisation and unification of the recruitment of officers. This solution significantly better reflects the needs of prison and will make this system fairer, more flexible and more efficient. It will also allow the management of the department to implement a specific staff policy in all organisational units, on the basis of a country-wide uniform model of competence of the Prison Service Officer. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as I mentioned at the beginning, is positive about the bill being drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u144	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it's so good, why is it so bad, you could say. Since the Minister sees some problems regarding the lack of functioning of the Prison Service University, why didn't he see it, his predecessors: Minister Gowin, Minister Ziobro or Minister Lech Kaczyński didn't see it? I have the impression that it is the building of another monument, which I want to leave behind Minister Jak, a little by reference to the Russian model, because in Western European countries, civil universities educate graduates who then feed the prison service or other models that function. In Poland we have thousands of graduates of humanities universities, the direction of rehabilitation, who go to the Prison Service, after the first, second degree studies. It's not that if the fire department, the police, they have their own high schools, they have to be the prison service. Nor is it a problem that they are people with insufficient knowledge. That's why there are training centers for such people, such graduates to adapt and implement the conditions of the Prison Service. What's the real problem, Minister? The real problem is the state of Polish prison. The real problem is standards. And what are the standards that exist today? One educator on 40 convicts. No higher education school will improve this statistics unless you guarantee resources and encourage people to recruit and work in the Prison Service. What are these standards, Minister? One psychologist out of 200 inmates. Where's the therapy room? Where are we talking about the so-called. Professional burnout? Where is it possible to see that a prisoner is being bullied by a prisoner? Where is this time, this space for some sensitivity that is needed? Failure to adapt prison infrastructure to the needs of people with disabilities. There's a need for specific investments here. One demonstration investment in Opolskie voivodship is not enough. These upgrades should be carried out on an ongoing basis. Where's the prison health care, Minister? You remember the case of Agnieszka Pysz, who died in an investigative arrest in Grochov in Warsaw only because she was not given professional help, ignored her requests for help, the infirmary manager treated her begging as a simulation. The question to you is: What are the decisions? You made a lot of statements at the Justice Committee. Here's another thing. Today's Capital Gazeta, Education Lessons behind bars. The employee, spokesperson of the District Prison Service in Warsaw, boasts: 60,000 have already visited prisons. students. Know and understand the risks, prison - wasted time. What was going on out there? The guard told the prisoners to get out of the cell, and we watched their family photos, private items. You shouldn't do that to these women, says 15-year-old Dominic after she was arrested in an interrogation session within an educational hour. Same detective arrest, Mr. Minister, Peas. Suicides. Standards: meter - 3 m For a prisoner, inhuman treatment, a one-hour walk. You often boast of working for prisoners: 36 thousand. The prisoners are working. And how many jobs is that, Minister? They get letters that say that jobs are specifically divided to increase labour statistics when it comes to prisoners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We exceptionally proceed to work on this project, considering that the Prison Service needs to be changed, while the Prison Service University is not the solution to all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15* [[He wrote it in writing.]] There's no envoy. Mr. Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws, print No 2155. Ladies and gentlemen! In line with the reasons given, the proposed project aims to increase the level of competence of Prison Service personnel and to contribute to a change in the image of that service. The main pillar of the change is the establishment of the Prison Service Academy. This university is to be supervised by the Minister of Justice. The aim of this new unit will not only be to educate the current officers and employees of the Prison Service, university studies are also intended for candidates for officers. In the opinion of the Poselski Club, modern regulation is not without faults and raises a number of questions. First basic point: On what basis is the justification of the project so radically stated that the current training methodology is old and archaic? Were there, Minister, an audit or any evaluation? If so, why is it that the results of this audit and the results of these studies are not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum? Education in the new unit is due to start already in October this year. This raises the question of the effect of the new regulation for those who have just started training in areas such as rehabilitation and security and criminology. What chance will these people have of working in prison if they suddenly appear in the labour market graduates of the prison service academy? It is planned to set up a campus based in the higher education institution of the Prison Service. The total cost of the planned investment was estimated at PLN 128 million. The question arises about the validity of the construction of a new university in a situation where the resort has a modern Central Centre for Prison Service Training in Kalisz, which has full modern logistics facilities and professional staff. Why waste money on new investments when there are investments made recently and these conditions are very good? Why, before the campus starts in Warsaw, should the training take place in a small centre in the woods, in Kula, and not in a modern training centre in Kalisz, which exists? There is no clear indication in the project that the organisation and conduct of the teaching process are to take place on the basis of the solutions adopted by the Law on Higher Education. Does the absence of this appeal mean that the Prison Service Academy is to operate in isolation from the rules applicable to all other public and non-public universities? Will the new university not have to meet the minimum staff requirement and implement the national qualifications framework for higher education? I am therefore sorry to say that the current government is following a pattern that has been established over the years and instead of introducing new solutions based on an in-depth and professional analysis and changing only those areas that really need to be improved, it is introducing another revolution. The question is why this revolution is meant to serve. Is it really about the professionalization of Prison Service personnel, or is it not about creating new posts for Minister Ziobra's nominees? The second evidence seems to be the centralisation of recruitment processes in the project and the granting of very extensive powers to the Director-General of the Prison Service, which will, after all, be under the service of the Minister of Justice. For example, art. Article 39f (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 The Act entitles the Director-General to join the service in the first instance of a staff member employed at least 2 years in the Prison Service if during the period of employment he has demonstrated appropriate qualifications and competences which are particularly useful in the Prison Service. This means introducing specific gates into the system, which will make it possible to depart from precise and clear rules for recruitment to service, which, in the case of frequent use, will completely undermine the transparency of the procedures in place. This bill, Minister, does not respond to basic needs regarding the service conditions of officers, access to psychologists, access to health care, rehabilitation issues. Minister, these are the problems that should be a challenge to the Ministry in the first place, but you are starting with the side that is already being implemented in some way today. As there is a need to talk about the Prison Service, about the most important problems that I have just mentioned, we will not apply for rejection, but we hope for a very in-depth debate in committee and adoption. [[♪ The bell ♪]] arguments that will make this project good, or we will unfortunately end up rejecting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u148	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The proposal to the High Chamber to amend the Prison Service Act and some other laws is intended to introduce comprehensive changes to existing provisions concerning the system of recruitment and training of Prison Service personnel, which means improving the quality of training of Prison Service officers and employees, and selecting optimal candidates for this service. The government's presentation assumes a broad reform of the education of the broadly understood staff, which, according to the government, is intended to contribute to education in the society of a picture of the Prison Service appearing as a modern, professional and dynamic organisation in a service dedicated to the security of citizens and the state. The submission assumes the establishment of a higher education institution of the Prison Service, which would be an indispensable element not only in the training of its staff but, in fact, in the reform of prison. It must be agreed that the selection of candidates not only to the Prison Service but also to the widely understood uniform services should always be based on a human factor. As many years have shown, even the best-educated officers, in different positions in different departments, can not only increase the prestige of the service by their person or personality but also destroy it. The project envisages a general change in the system of recruitment and vocational training of Prison Service officers. Indeed, at present, the Prison Service does not have an internal system of self-training at the level of 1st and 2nd degree, but only acquires to its ranks persons with higher education who are graduates of civil higher education. This solution, in the light of the analysis of the Central Prison Service Board, does not work, for example, because there are no universities in Poland that are at least close to the needs of prison: the law, which in itself constitutes a kind of lex specialis only in relation to this type of service. The government in the explanatory memorandum of the law rightly follows the proven and applied solutions for many years, e.g. in the Polish Army, the Police or the State Fire Department. Hence, it will be necessary to amend the Law of 27 July 2005. The Law on Higher Education, which will include a new public university, supervised by the Minister of Justice, among universities of state services. The establishment of a government cannot be denied in terms of the fact that graduates of the newly established prison service will be better prepared for multifaceted work with convicted persons and will be better prepared and implemented to create modern rehabilitation. They will also be able to initiate the social re-adaptation of convicted persons. Nor can it be denied that a significant change in the compulsory education system will occur following the adoption of a government submission with the establishment of a new university, in the transfer of certain forms of non-formal vocational education to the academic model. The government envisages that the university's curriculum will provide an optimal model of academic education in directions where the future officer or representative of the management and commander-in-chief will use the knowledge gained fully, without the need to eat the knowledge gained in civil areas and, as a rule, adjust it to the needs of the tasks to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish People's Party with understanding accepts the project submitted by the government. We believe and hope that its intentions are right and based on a high dose of rationality. The bill, together with the justification and tabular data, is a huge material. A great effort must be made to ensure that the project, even though it comes from the best assumptions here, is not the result of a legislative rush, which would be contrary to its intentions. The Polish People's Party is in favour of referring it to further work in the parliamentary committees and announces active participation at every further stage of its procession. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! More than 27 thousand employees work in the Polish Prison Service. persons. All of these people had to undergo training at the Central Prison Service Training Centre in Kalisz, the only such school in our country. Until now, prison officials have trained in three other centres: Kul, Dry and Black. The construction of the campus for the new university set up by this Act, which is to be established in areas managed by the Warsaw-Białołęka detention centre, is to continue until 2020. The total investment cost is estimated at nearly PLN 130 million. I wanted to ask if it had to be a priority. I also wanted to ask if the other centres, and especially the central centre in Kalisz, would remain in the new structure of the creation of [[♪ The bell ♪]] university. What's their role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u151	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why is there no adjustment for prisoners with intellectual disabilities, blindness or physical disabilities? If the targets are adapted, it's already forgotten about the yards, the space for seeing the family, etc. So I would like to ask: When will all this be adapted, not just in Białołęka? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The planned establishment of a new university, a higher school of the Prison Service, involves among others. with the construction of a new facility and its equipment. This is the amount of about 130 million PLN, which will be incurred as a result of the reduction of previously planned tasks in prison. While working on the 2018 budget, this task was not reported, although the bill was already very advanced. I have a question: What is the connection with this investment with the elimination of many arrests, including inter alia. Lyuban CSI? Why is this arrest of investigators being terminated, which was refurbished with high expenditures, including last year's, especially since this facility is in good technical condition? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u155	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u156	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First the question, because we're talking about there's over 30,000. Prison Service officers. Are there any vacancies? How does that relate to this number? It must be said, however, that the idea of setting up a prison service university should be considered justified. It will likely be an important part of the reform of the Prison Service. Following the line of thinking from other services where we have police classes, we have military classes, would it not also be worth considering that at least in those parts of Poland where there are quite a number of prison facilities, arrests, start with upper secondary schools creating classes that graduates could then, in the future, go further to this Academy of Prison Services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Michalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for the fact that now the Prison Service does not have a good education system, I think we all agree here. We know that until now the prison service training is archaic, they don't meet the expectations we want. What areas, so far not implemented on these different types of courses, trainings, will be implemented in the academy? What new competences will the academy graduate have that he does not have at the moment after the trainings that are being carried out at the moment? How will the academy be better than the previous courses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One might ask: Why is it so late? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are nearly 30,000 employees in the Prison Service. persons. This is the second post-police armed formation. It should also be remembered that this particular formation, the Prison Service employees, are working, let's say, with quite difficult personalities, with people who are in this place, not others due to various types of crimes and convictions. Therefore, it is asked to professionally prepare all Prison Service staff to provide work in this very specific, difficult environment. For my part, I can say this: there is full confidence in the decision that such a university will arise, and I hope that the justification which [[♪ The bell ♪]] was attached to the project, convinces everyone to support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u161	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Mikhal Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u162	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A situation cannot be accepted where a country, with full responsibility for the lives and health of those deprived of freedom, does not provide them with adequate medical care. On 8 November, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights held a meeting on the causes and circumstances of the death of Ms Agnieszka Pysz in the Warsaw-Grochow Detachment. A few specific questions for the Minister. At what stage is the investigation into the death of Ms. Agnieszka Pysz? Have specific allegations been made in this case yet? During the work of the Justice Committee, you announced that you had recommended the resignation of the director of the Warsaw-Grochow Arrest Office. Was it your order that was executed? What stage is he at? What were the consequences of a prison infirmary manager who failed to fulfil his duties and risked losing Ms. Agnieszka Pysz's life? What systemic solutions have been put in place in the Prison Service after this tragic situation, including emergency events and information to the Ombudsman [[♪ The bell ♪]] About them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u163	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Patrick Jaki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u164	Dear Marshal! High Seym! To answer all the questions that have been asked, maybe I'll start at the end. Mr Honourable's question. First, yes: Was the announced resignation of the director of the penitentiary carried out? Yeah, it's done. There's another director. Is the infirmary manager still working? No, he was fired. Is there a disciplinary action against him? Yeah, it's going on, but it's going on in a corporation because it's a doctor, which is why I can't draw any consequences against him other than to terminate the deal with him. Now the company, the doctor in this case, is already responsible for any further effects. And the question is, have the system solutions we discussed been implemented, among others. On the committee? Yes, such solutions have been implemented, among others. an order has been issued by the Director-General of the Prison Service on my recommendation, in which all such disciplinary proceedings will always take place at a level higher than the level of the unit in which the incident took place. Therefore, I hope that for many years this will rule out the error that actually occurred in this case, which was that the same penitentiary unit in which the incident took place investigated the incident. Mr Rzońc praised our decision, for which I thank Mr Rzońc very much. Mrs Michalek asked: "Will a graduate be better than the current graduates? The difference will be fundamental because today recruitment takes place from the basic unit and the Prison Service employee can become a person after each course of study. If there is e.g. Humanist, her training for prison services usually involves professional training, i.e. teaching through older workers of younger workers entering the service. And what's the difference? The difference is that this person is going to be here today... Once this academy project comes into force, the person who will be recruited to the Prison Service will simultaneously study first degree to the Prison Service and at the same time learn all the most important elements or fields of science that are important for the effective pursuit of this profession, i.e. safety sciences, rehabilitation sciences, science on criminology, forensics, etc. In addition, this school will provide development. Eventually, we have plans that after the establishment of this higher school, there will also be the possibility of continuing to study in the second degree and later in the second degree. That's why this school is gonna have... We believe that there will be a unit that will finally drag Polish penitentiary teachings forward. In addition, we have aspirations to gather to this school the best staff who dealt with such problems, from all over Poland, in the coming years. And it is so that at the largest Polish universities, at each of these universities there are at least several scientists who deal with widely understood penitentiaries or criminology. We'd like to get all these scientists together in one place. Of course, this is an ambitious task. It can't be done right away, but we're going to do it consistently. And that will also be the difference in the education of this man who will come to the service. That'll be the difference, the real difference in quality. Mr Piechowiak asked if it was worth starting with upper secondary schools. That's a good point. It's worth it. And so it will be in reality, i.e. We will want to work with upper secondary schools that already run uniform classes, but we would also like them to be those typically aimed at penitentiary education. We are thinking that even in the recruitment process, additional points could be awarded in the recruitment process to the Academy in the future. This is a very good point for which I thank you. Mrs Czernow asked about the relationship between this reform and the reform related to the elimination of investigative arrests and certain basic units. This is not the relationship, because we are also trying to reform ourselves from the inside. I mean, it's not like we're just reaching for new resources to the system. At the same time, we want those parts that are inefficient to function in our system for years and are expensive... These funds could be saved and spent better. If we have penitentiary units where we have 60 or 50 prisoners and a similar staff of people, officers, that's it. It's just inefficient. No one has had the courage to make that decision so far, even though everyone knows it's inefficient. It's not like that anywhere in the world. Just today, the traditional penitentiary units are the penitentiary units that count from half a thousand people up, not from 50 people. This is, unfortunately, still in many cases, the connection, the formation of the Republic of Poland from partitions. After all, the High House knows that in many places we have penitentiary units from the 19th century, even in some places older ones. Mrs Krzywonos asked about infrastructure, especially in the context of space for intellectually disabled people. This is the subject of our concern. We are currently implementing the first programme of modernisation of the Prison Service after 1989, and we also place emphasis on these elements as much as the financial possibilities of the state allow. But, of course, she is right that this is an extremely important and important issue. Mrs Płęp asked: "Will there be room in this new system for current schools, among others. Kalisz and Bullet? Yes, they will remain part of the system. On the other hand, we will try to unify and structure all of this through different levels. This prison service academy will be the highest level. I hope that I have answered all the questions, and of course thank you for the declarations of all parliamentary clubs regarding the work on this project. We are, of course, open to your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u165	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws, print No 2155. The project submitted concerns a change in the system of recruitment and training and professional improvement of Prison Service (SW) officers and the establishment of a university of Prison Service (the university will initially have the possibility of three-year first-grade studies as well as postgraduate studies for graduates of other higher education institutions; then a second-grade course is to be launched, modelled on the solutions used in the Polish Army, the Police or the State Fire Department, which will educate future staff for prison purposes. In addition, the project: - provides for the addition of the conditions for the selection procedure for admission to the SW - it is intended to determine whether the candidate fulfils the conditions for admission to the Prison Service and to determine his qualification, competence and suitability to perform that service; the recruitment to the SW is to be open and competitive; - determines the detailed course of the selection procedure for the admission to prison service - centralised recruitment to the Prison Service (now the reception of officers is handled by the heads of individual penitentiary units), the recruitment notice will be published on a uniform basis; the selection procedure will include, inter alia,: carrying out a test of knowledge on the functioning of the public authority and on State security and public order; - lays down the principle that, immediately after admission to service or work, an official and a staff member shall have pre-training, which shall consist of initial professional adaptation, preparatory training and professional practice, the task of enabling the officer and the staff member to acquire the knowledge and practical skills necessary for the performance of his or her duties in the occupied post or post of employment and to facilitate his or her professional adaptation; the initial training shall be divided into three stages: the organisational unit in which the service or work is to be carried out, then at the university or Central Prison Service Training Centre and subsequently in the form of professional practices; - adds Chapter 7a to the Act: The candidate service is to study in accordance with the training programme at the SW University and to carry out business tasks in the organizational units (serial grade of SW), students will join the Prison Service with the beginning of their studies, it will be a new form of service, within which the listeners will simultaneously carry out the duties assigned to them in prisons or detentions; - provides for officers' examinations - to appoint an officer, it will be necessary to complete higher or postgraduate studies at the University of Prison Service, as well as a sentence separate and independent from the studies of the officer's examination as defined by the Director-General of the Prison Service; - establishes a new training mechanism for officers and commanders based on an academic model. Of course, there are also various types of records to be discussed, such as: providing for the possibility for the Minister of Justice to carry out checks on the Prison Service authorities and their organisational units. Although I would like to point out at the outset that we are not so much concerned with the legitimacy of control as such, because this is obvious, and there are parallels in the uniformed services of the MSWiA, but in the scope of such controls and the possible consequences of these actions. To conclude, we believe that the project has a number of important solutions to improve the quality of training and work in the Prison Service. The proposed law will increase transparency in the recruitment process to the Prison Service, harmonise and raise the level of education and qualifications of employees. It is difficult to acquire the right skills at civil universities (often SW officials are people who have completed rehabilitation at the social faculty of universities) to be in prison because of the need for multi-directional training. - none of the Polish universities providing training on key courses for prisons, including rehabilitation, security or criminology, simultaneously equips graduates with specific competences specific to SW officers, resulting from the paramilitary character of this formation. Currently conducted in the Prison Service vocational training for officers, petty officers and ensigns takes place without significant participation of external experts (now training and education in SW is non-formal, using internal infrastructure), the establishment of a new university will thus be a breakthrough in the formation of professional staff of officers and employees of the Prison Service. There are also discussion issues in the project, but they are a smaller part of it. In our opinion, the draft, after working in committee, may be smooth and devoid of paragraphs on which there are reservations or doubts. Therefore, the Kikiz'15 Members' Club will vote in favour of referring it to further work on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u167	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Prison Service Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 2155, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned date for tomorrow, 7 February this year, item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews during World War II will not be considered. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws (print No 2156). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Walczak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u168	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, which is one of the elements of the strategy for responsible development. At the beginning of 2017, the Ministry of Finance submitted to the High House a draft law on the road freight monitoring system, which the High Sejm adopted. With new control tools in hand, national tax authorities could continue their efforts to reduce the grey economy. Pursuant to this law, without any additional expenditure, only the forces of the staff of the Ministry were created an IT application through which, since 18 April 2017, entrepreneurs sent over 2 million applications. Since that date, the Customs-Scarb Service has carried out over 260 thousand. road inspection. It should be noted that in 2017 the National Tax Administration officers carried out almost 850 truck inspections per day. Today, we can firmly say that the preventive objective has been achieved - the data show that it has been achieved. It is worth paying attention once again to the preventive nature of the law. Within more than 260 thousand. road inspections found irregularities in the area of only 1% Notifications. Few more than 260 driver seats were issued, but little more than 1 000 were launched. proceedings for penalties for failure to register. As far as convoys are concerned, only more than 1.3 thousand convoys have been completed. Despite such good results, the Ministry of Finance monitors the implementation of checks carried out on the road with the aim of better typing for controls and better performing them. It is served by the law submitted to the High Sejm, which some regulations supplement with the regulations in force so as to rule out interpretation doubts arising. As I have already mentioned, more than 2 million applications have been sent to the SENT register, which operates 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. At this point I would like to stress that from the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. Since April 18th, we have recorded only two hours of interruptions in the functioning of the IT system. They were related to the need to upload the new applications expected by entrepreneurs. It should be pointed out that even in such cases, businesses are not exposed to an undesirable disruption of the supply chain, as the provisions adopted in the Act include appropriate safeguards, i.e. the so-called ones. emergency procedure. When providing the High Sejm with control data, attention should be paid to its and other packages sealing the financial effect. For example, in 2017, we recorded an increase of - by more than 8 billion PLN - the revenue of the state budget, compared to 2016, due to taxes paid by only two leading fuel companies. Compared to one year to one year, there was a 30% increase in VAT payments on motor fuels. In particular, after three quarters of 2017, there was an increase in domestic fuel production by more than 1 billion l, which resulted in an increase of around 20% in the legal consumption of diesel, a 6% increase in the legal sale of petrol and LPG and a continuing 12-percent increase in fuel. It is also important that when comparing data for periods from September 2016 and 2017, i.e. data for periods after the regulation of the fuel package, it can be seen that the increase in tax revenues generated by only the two largest fuel companies was over 400 million per month. It is not without importance for citizens and the revenue of the state budget that the 50% reduction in the production of lubricating oils, often used by organised criminal groups offering them for propulsion purposes to the detriment of our vehicles, not only for the state budget. At the end of this part of my speech, I would like to point out a 75% decrease in intra-Community supplies and exports of rapeseed oil, whose exports were used to extort an undue refund of VAT. High Seym! The proposed bill amending the law on the road freight monitoring system is another step aimed at healing the national tax system and not only. This project responds to problems and comments observed by the Ministry of Finance, indicating the need to include also the monitoring system for the transport of sensitive rail goods already controlled in road transport. Between 2016 and 2017, we saw a 100% increase in the volume of energy products transported by rail, from 368 million l to 652 million l. In the absence of tools capable of providing the information necessary for the implementation of effective and targeted controls on an ongoing basis, it is necessary to introduce another regulation extending the monitoring system to include rail transport. There'll be single cars here. Of course, in order to rule out possible doubts at first glance, I would like to explain that checks of this type of carriage will, in principle, be carried out on railway sidings at the place where the goods are delivered. High Izbo! At this point I would like to draw attention to the next solution contained in the proposed proposal. Given the well-being of citizens, with the help of the Minister of Health, we want to include a system for monitoring transport essential for human life and health medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices designated by the Minister of Health, to which access for Polish patients is threatened by illegal exports to other Member States of the European Union and third countries. For 5 years in Poland the problem of availability of many medicinal products for sick people has been growing. This procedure is based on the mass-scale sale of these products to foreign contractors, resulting in the lack of specialized or modern medicines, especially those saving lives, in Polish pharmacies and hospitals. The latest notice of the Minister of Health covers as many as 182 items with such products. This procedure takes place despite the fact that the regulations in force prohibit the export of these products outside the territory of the Republic of Poland and although the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector has not given any consent to their export. In 2017 the pharmaceutical market in Poland was estimated at almost PLN 40 billion. Therefore, given the circumstances outlined above, it is appropriate to include these products in the monitoring system. High Izbo! The proposed law provides not only for obligations, but also reduces the administrative burden for entrepreneurs. 8 months of experience in the application of the Road Goods Monitoring System Act allows for certain facilitations without affecting the quality and consistency of the data and possible deterioration of the tax system. Certainly, one such solution is the abolition provisions which exempt traders from fines in situations where, as a result of tax checks or customs-credit checks, it has been established that there has been no reduction in VAT and excise duties, e.g. when the trader made a mistake in the quantity declared. Another example concerns provisions authorising the Minister of Finance to issue implementing acts according to which, due to the specific nature of the goods or carriage, it will be possible to reduce obligations arising from the provisions of the Act, e.g. the total exemption from reporting in the register or a reduction in the number of data reported in the notification. High Seym! Finally, I would like to stress that the aim of the proposed regulations is not to hinder the functioning of entrepreneurs. The measures taken are directed solely at the elimination of the grey zone, which adversely affects the State, in particular the functioning and competitiveness of other legitimate economic operators. I therefore ask the High House to refer this bill to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u169	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice expresses its full support for this bill, and with great respect it refers to the project presented and to the justification, because the aim of the proposed law is simply to provide a more detailed solution for the functioning and better monitoring of the carriage of goods specified in the Act, including goods carried by rail. I will immediately say that it is expressly stated in the Act that there will be no obstacles to the carriage of goods by rail, because there will be designated places to check these goods, if necessary, on the railway sidings or at the points of delivery of these goods. Further, this law refers to the monitoring of new goods, namely, as the Minister has already said, medicinal products, special-purpose foodstuffs, including those intended for the manufacture of medical devices specified in the relevant notice. It is certainly worth noting that, as the Minister has already said here, what kind of business we have been dealing with in Poland, namely the tax carousels, which were used for the export of medicinal products. As far as the proposed detailed arrangements are concerned, the title of the Act has been amended to include the law on the system for monitoring the carriage of goods. The current road monitoring system has been given a new name, i.e. a transport monitoring system. In addition, it was necessary to amend the laws of 21 March on public roads, of 6 April on the Police, of 24 August 2001. Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, hereinafter, Pharmaceutical Law, of 5 January 2011 on Drivers of Vehicles and of 16 November 2016, as amended, on the National Tax Administration. There is also a new term appearing in the Act: "A person driving a railway vehicle." You know why. The definition of carriage of goods and means of transport has been modified. Several provisions have also been amended. The draft proposes that, in the case of carriage from one consignor to one consignee, to one place of delivery of the goods, one means of transport, the declaration may cover goods of different kinds, i.e. with different four-digit codes. The grouping of goods in accordance with the Polish Classification of Products and Services has been discontinued while remaining in determining the type of goods on the basis of the combined nomenclature. In addition, the draft law amending the law on the system for monitoring the carriage of goods and certain other acts, called the Monitoring Act, provides for the extension of the catalogue of types of goods to be subject to the transport monitoring system, to medicinal products, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices, hereinafter referred to as medical products. The catalogue of information has been extended to include the registration number of the means of transport or the train number. In the bill, and this is very important, interesting and necessary, there are records going very far in terms of some simplifications. Namely certain transports, certain groups of goods may be excluded from the obligation to send to the register. If this information is necessary, of course these applications will, but perhaps there will be cases where there is simply a big simplification for those who operate the goods. The Act also states that a regulation will be issued under the Act, which may include new goods in its system. Ladies and gentlemen, this law causes amendments to other laws concerning e.g. the operation of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways or of the Road Transport Inspections. This is due to the fact that these institutions or these state-owned companies, entities will have the possibility to process sensitive data necessary to ensure that goods are transported safely. There is also talk of security when it comes to so-called security. Tracking, that is, a situation in which transported medical devices can be allowed to be used after storage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly advocates this bill. We will be working on this project on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u172	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. The proposal provides for the amendment of several legal acts, including: the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road, here we have almost 30 amendments, and pharmaceutical law, as well as the laws on public roads, on road transport, on the drivers of vehicles, on the National Tax Administration, on the Police or on the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The aim of the amendment is to ensure a more efficient functioning and better monitoring of the carriage of goods specified in the Act. The project contains a number of additions in the case of so-called. a transport package designed to improve the effectiveness of monitoring and control of sensitive goods. According to the project, the monitoring system will be extended to include rail transport. This is linked to the aim of reducing the risk of using rail transport for the illicit transport of sensitive goods and therefore the title of the Act itself will change. The draft provides for rules to mitigate the obligation to notify the carriage of goods in the relevant register. In duly justified cases, more than one consignment may be covered by one declaration. The project goes even further, sometimes allowing for the full exclusion of the obligation to send the notification to the register, to supplement it or to update the data contained therein. This will be possible if the implementation of these obligations is particularly difficult due to the specific nature of the carriage or carriage of the goods concerned, the accompanying technical conditions or the type of transaction. The question arises as to how, in the face of inconsequential conditions - particularly difficult implementation of the obligation, low risk - practice in this area will be seen. A noteworthy change is the withdrawal from the grouping of goods according to the Polish Classification of Goods and Services. Goods shall be determined solely on the basis of the combined nomenclature CM used for excise goods and in international trade. That's the right thing to do. The draft has an important role to play in sanctioning the imposition of penalties on those failing to comply with the obligations imposed. In addition to possible sanctions in the form of detention of goods or means of transport, the amendment also provides for a number of financial penalties. By applying new regulations, sanctions may affect not only those against whom the project is directed to normalise, i.e. operators involved in the illegal carriage of sensitive goods, but may also be affected by honest entrepreneurs operating in the industry, for which irregularities in the fulfilment of obligations imposed by the law, often specific and time-consuming, have arisen, for example. as a result of oversight. The catalogue of goods subject to controls shall be extended to include medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices at risk of lack of availability on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project imposes new, sanctioned obligations on carriers and certain authorities have far-reaching competences. The revision provisions provide for new competences for the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. According to the amendment, the Director-General or the person authorised by him will also be able to share the collected data with the entities listed in the Act under the closed directory, inter alia. Police, Road Transport Inspection, Military Police, ABW, CBA, District Attorney, Courts or Head of the KAS. Given the objective of the amendment, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of sending the project to committee. We value each other very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a statement by the Minister who said that this law is not directed against entrepreneurs. I think that should be pretty clear about the rules. I don't know why the Minister is afraid of this. Apparently, there's something out there that can cause you to be so worried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u173	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I heard about the draft amendment to the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, I was glad because it is a law that entrepreneurs often complain about. They claim that it is a law full of gaps, difficult to implement, difficult to interpret and abused by the officials themselves. Just as the Minister said that this amendment is not created against entrepreneurs, I hope that the next amendment will not only not be created against entrepreneurs, but will also be created with the aim of entrepreneurs or, at the same time, fill in the gaps. I will not talk about the positive assumptions of this amendment, I will not repeat after you Minister. I'm gonna talk about two negative consequences. The first of them are in my mind, in the sense of the entrepreneurs too high a penalty. It is said that if the means of transport is not presented together with the goods at the indicated place at a specified time, a penalty of 20,000 may be imposed. Up to 100,000. zł. The situations that businessmen have referred to me with are due to minor mistakes. Everyone makes mistakes, and this law should fix pathologies or counteract them, and not punish them on such a scale where mistakes have been made, especially since entrepreneurs, as I'm about to show, are not easy when it comes to respecting this law. Another negative consequence is further responsibilities. Railway operators will also have to complete the transport declaration, for example. the number of the wagon and the train. With regard to the problems which, unfortunately, this amendment does not solve and which I would like to lean on, there is, first of all, no possibility of correcting the notification. It is in the context of such high penalties that, in my opinion, it is crucial. You can correct everything, tax statements, any other testimony, and the online system or computer system does not accept the correction of such a claim. And everyone has the right to be wrong. According to the wording of the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on the system of data relating to goods subject to carriage contained in the declaration shall not be updated. It's a big mistake, a problem, for example. in a situation where an employee operating the system simply got it wrong. The problem is also that the declared goods do not agree with the goods at the end. The goods are being repacked, and it happens that a bag gets ripped off somewhere, it's thinner. We already have an inconsistency and a basis for imposing such a great deal of punishment. Another of the problems of this law, which have not been resolved here, is the lack of a definition of a person conducting an economic activity. The sending entities often face a dilemma as to whether or not a SENT is to be notified. Unfortunately, no definition arises from the current drafts amending the law. The business environment is called upon to define a person conducting an economic activity simply as a person entered in the register of KRS entrepreneurs or as a central register of business activities. Such a definition would make it easy and precise to determine whether an entity is an entrepreneur and thus identify a circle of obliged entities. Another problem - the absence of exclusion of service stations from the statutory regime, the absence of exemption of supply within the meaning of VAT rules made at service stations if the carriage of goods takes place immediately after the sale. I.e. if an invoice is issued to the trader for a quantity of product above 500 l and the product has been poured into a vessel other than the tank of the vehicle, such transport should be reported to the SENT system. Making such reports can be very problematic. Most stations are self-service, and there are completely maintenance-free stations where there is no employee. The VAT invoice does not need to be issued immediately. The customer can register with the receipt after a month to issue a VAT invoice, and after a month you can no longer send a SENT application because the bill does not provide for this. Stations are carefully controlled, subject to multiple checks, which allow to identify possible illegal activities of the entrepreneur. I think it would be wise to exclude them from this bill. As I said at the outset, this law is intended to eliminate pathological behavior, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not to prove that everyone makes mistakes, for which you will punish with all severity. Therefore, as a Kukiz club15, we request that the project be sent to the committee and we hope that these problems raised by entrepreneurs will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, print No 2156. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal presented to the High House contains a number of changes concerning the monitoring of the carriage of goods. In principle, they rely on the so-called transport monitoring. sensitive goods carried out by rail, withdrawal from grouping of goods in accordance with the Polish Classification of Products and Services, while remaining in determining the type of goods on the basis of a combined nomenclature, covered by a system of monitoring the carriage of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices, as specified in the notice referred to in the Pharmaceutical Law. In addition, the project introduces two very dangerous business solutions: the first, on the basis of which it will be possible to call on the carrier to present the means of transport together with the goods in the designated place at a specified time to carry out the inspection, and a completely outrageous thing, i.e. a drastic increase in penalties for honest people, I would like to stress this clearly, honest entrepreneurs of the transport industry who are building the success of Poland. These draconian punishments the PiS government wants to impose only for the fact that sometimes the form has not been completed e.g. the name of the company, and it is obvious that the name of the carrier is secondary to the monitoring of the transport. The most important is such information, for example. identification of the place of collection, route of transport or destination. For lack of this secondary information, the PiS government wants to impose a penalty of 10,000. zł. Minister, hello, this is Earth. Similar doubts relate to the way in which the means of transport is presented at the office's request. After all, companies have different working time regimes, someone doesn't get the information, someone doesn't give it to them because they got sick. Minister, the PiS banned work on Sundays. The company will unload the goods and then get information about the need to present the vehicle. You will have to hire new employees, which means you will incur additional costs. You didn't think it through. It is worth saying clearly that the fight against the grey zone is an absolute necessity. There's no doubt about it. A modern one with honest entrepreneurs demands a fight against the gray area. Unfortunately, what we are seeing so far is the new bureaucratic burden, mostly ordinary PR, and the increase in budget revenue is a significant result of economic growth, which is a consequence of growth in the world, not of PiS activities. But the paper must patiently endure further proposals from the PiS government regarding sealing. It is difficult to understand why in the fight against the grey zone the government of PiS wants to punish honest carriers with draconian penalties for bureaucratic elements which are absolutely secondary to monitoring the carriage of goods, and not to listen to entrepreneurs who know what needs to be done. High Izbo! I'm talking about these things for a reason. This amendment shows that the PiS government does not listen to the market, does not listen to practitioners, does not listen to people who know about it. PiS wants to punish honest entrepreneurs again. There was a consultation, surprisingly, because the PIS usually doesn't consult, but what does the consultation reveal? The voice of the social side is generally not taken into account. I'm asking the PiS government, Minister, why don't you listen to the transport industry, why don't you listen to people who know about it, so that solutions are aimed at places where there are real problems. After all, there are problems with removing official seals in branches that are only open at hours. 7. Thirty-five. 30. I know, the Minister will be here in a minute and explain that, for example. There's a patrol coming and he can take it off. But, Minister, such thinking shows that you are separated from real problems. Waiting is the time, and when the vehicle stands, it doesn't work, it doesn't earn. Will you cover those losses? Do you even care in these ministries? Last question: Why doesn't the government listen to people active, people working, people who are creating economic success? Minister, you just said, speaking here and presenting this bill, that it is not directed against entrepreneurs. Minister, it's not about that, because when you say something like that, it means you have to look where the entrepreneur can be punished, and there are records. This is about laws that will meet the needs of entrepreneurs. If you come here with a bill that solves the problem of closing down, we'll all vote in favour. So far, it seems that the state is more intruding on business than you are helping. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The state-of-the-art conditionally agrees with the proposal to refer the project to committee work, but, Minister, we hope that the government will make a proper assessment and accept the changes that this project will fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u178	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to speak about the Act amending the Act on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. The project presented, I think, is moving towards the elimination of the grey zone, as the Minister spoke about. It is good that we want to eliminate the grey zone because it threatens fair competition in the market, and in many cases it also reduces the revenue of the state, as the Minister said here. However, it cannot be that we will introduce such a regime that everyone will be in pain and run away from business, we will change every few months the law, which will be incomprehensible and illegible. Sometimes a better effect can be achieved by deregulation, i.e. simplification of the law, and this translates very often into an increase in entrepreneurship, the development of economic activity, than a regime action that discourages companies, businesses from doing so. I think it's worth noticing that there's an example of fuel oil trading. As the name suggests, fuel oil should be used for space heating, while around the distribution of this oil there are many irregularities, as reported by distributors themselves carrying out its retail sale, as they bear the full responsibility for what the fuel oil will be intended for. They are accounted for, and before that there were consequences, that even for one or two days of delay, huge penalties were imposed on them. Although this is no longer the case at the moment, the system is very opaque and really requires major changes. I think we'd have to take care of that, too. Work is needed, except that they should really aim to create transparent solutions and as little as possible burden on business administrations, because - we have seen this for several years - nothing is done in terms of deregulation. Previous governments used to do this, which was simplifying the law, simplifying unnecessary procedures. At the moment, procedures are coming, documents are coming, complex solutions are coming, which causes additional costs for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs very often raise this issue that the lack of transparency of law and the cost of creating additional administration discourages entrepreneurs. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of further proceding, but there must be caution and moderation here, so that, in search of revenue in the state budget, we do not fire the child with a bath, in other words, we do not destroy our entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u180	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the proposed law, failure to deliver the means of transport together with the goods to the designated place within a specified time limit will result in a penalty of 20 000 being imposed on the carrier. zł. And the question, Minister: Did the authors of the proposed law provide for the possibility to withdraw from the imposition on the carrier of this penalty, where the failure to deliver the means of transport together with the goods to the designated place within a specified period is due to circumstances for which the carrier is not responsible, e.g. the occurrence of a failure of the means of transport, a communication accident involving that means of transport or on the route of passage or of higher forces? And another topic. In accordance with the wording of the proposed law, in the case of checks on the carriage of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices covered by the obligation under the Pharmaceutical Law requiring special storage conditions, they may be directed to a pharmaceutical wholesaler operated by an entrepreneur with whom the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector has concluded an agreement. And the question: In view of the above, who will be responsible [[♪ The bell ♪]] for any damage or deterioration of those goods where they are stored in a pharmaceutical warehouse in a manner that does not comply with the relevant requirements for the storage of those products? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u181	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the cover of the sealing of the system, the provisions of this Act are introduced to the extent that the authorities of the State are able to monitor the public in a further manner. The opinion of the General Data Inspector on the draft law is unambiguous. The Armed Forces, the Head of the Government Protection Office and the Prison Service have been included in the catalogue of these entities to which the data will be shared. What tasks of these entities justify access to classified data? The Data Protection Officer makes it clear that the last two operators should not have such access. I have a question: Will a provision on information obligations be included in the project for persons whose data have been collected by the services in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u183	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, two subjects. The first topic concerns official closures. The obvious question is, will you face the expectation of entrepreneurs? Well, I understand that you may not know this, but transport has its real requirements in terms of timeliness, is linked to the supply chain, is linked to many other factors, including economic efficiency for the entrepreneur who owns the company. And the question is, will you finally meet the expectations of entrepreneurs and set up some shifts at the offices, a duty on duty, so that these lockdowns can be downloaded when the entrepreneur expects it, and not when the office is open? It's horrible. The second thing is the gradation of punishment. The state imposes these penalties for everything - for everything there are 10,000. zł. I mean, there's information that's important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are important from a monitoring point of view, and less important information. Therefore, have you ever considered setting up a catalogue of important things that are required? There are stricter regulations here, but there is also information that is absolutely secondary from the point of view of monitoring...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u185	You must leave now, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u186	...and if it should be punished at all, it would certainly be with less intensity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very expected project and thank you very much for this project, because we all want to limit... The gray area is limited, we want to limit it more, because we want to... I was particularly interested in the issue of illegal drug exports. And this is where I speak for the patients. The Minister said that in 2017 the pharmaceutical market in Poland is about 40 billion PLN, so this is an unimaginable amount. Are estimates of the quantities of drugs exported from Poland known? Are there any data, do you have any simulations, how much money will be left in Poland because of the ban, the restriction on exports of drugs when this bill enters into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u190	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! The Act states that the entire monitoring system will apply to foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses. Could you tell the Minister what kind of food it will be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u191	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice, will ask the final question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very interesting to note that the act aims to introduce solutions that directly reduce administrative burdens on the part of entrepreneurs. It's a very important record because we're fighting bureaucracy. And here I'd like two sentences of a comment on that. If you don't mind, Minister, I'll also ask you about the farthest simplifications. Because there will be cases where transport can be excluded at all from the obligation to send a notification to the register if the implementation of this transport is particularly difficult. What are the cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I answer these numerous questions. First, ladies and gentlemen, as I presented, the bill consists primarily of such two drones. The first is about sealing the system, the second is about simplification. This simplification is, in fact, primarily due to the demands of the entrepreneurs that you have been talking about here, ladies and gentlemen. For these eight months, we've just been gathering the voices of entrepreneurs and these records... Here one of your fellow Members asked for examples. There you go. Departure from PKWiU codes, which are very complex and generally non-existent in the world, and the transition to CN codes used by the whole world. Traders, especially in the transport sector, who are very often involved in trade in goods abroad, are accustomed to the Combined Nomenclature, to CN codes. Another simplification, ladies and gentlemen, but also to meet the demands of entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, abolition. Where there's no tax thinner, there's no penalty. This is a very important record. Of course, you have rightly pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, that the transport industry in Poland is very important for our economy. Of course, we do not want to punish those entrepreneurs who did not cause the loss of public debts. Hence these entries in the bill. As for situations where the notification cannot be corrected, I note that the application is valid for 15 days. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 days. They can also be canceled and put out new ones. You can also modify the delivery site, because it is made possible. So, ladies and gentlemen, here there are formulas for absolutely not being exposed to sanctions, even in the case of, for example. there has been a failure of the fifth wheel tractor. Ladies and gentlemen, this law really contains a number of liberalising elements that will enable honest entrepreneurs to carry out these duties. I would like to point out that as regards those obligations that have been imposed today, it does not introduce new obligations. In fact, there are two basic new responsibilities. The new duty is to include rail monitoring, which is a very specific type of transport... I read the data. Ladies and gentlemen, the transport of sensitive goods has increased during the year, because once again I would like to stress that the monitoring law really concerns a very small quantity of goods, it really concerns a small amount of transport that is carried out daily on our roads. Unfortunately, organized crime groups, because that's what we're talking about, because we're fighting organized crime, knowing that we've sealed the system on the roads, they've switched to another transport, they've shifted to rail transport, for example. This 100 percent increase in the volume of sensitive goods indicates that we need to seal it here. But, ladies and gentlemen, railway companies operate completely different from transport companies, and this obligation will certainly not impose specific obligations on them. Ladies and gentlemen, the second issue, which is indeed a challenge, but we are fighting for the health and life of our citizens, is the issue of including in this system the medicines that I have already presented here are a really important issue today, not just fiscal, but, above all, related to the safety of our citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, this bill absolutely does not cause any impact on our legitimate business. It only causes system sealing and elimination of entities that do tax offences, not by accident, but with full premeditated intent. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards official closures, I would like to stress once again: 1800 checks on 2 million SENT notifications. We're actually talking about controls below 1%, including the establishment of official seals, it's actually a prodil of those controls that are being carried out. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a coincidence if we're putting in official lockdowns somewhere. I'm paying attention to cases that happened tonight, for example. In my report, I read about an attempt to smuggle illegal fuel that was hidden in a truck under the tarp. Because, ladies and gentlemen, organized crime groups really react, run away from the SENT system, even if they don't transport fuel by tank and carry it under the tarp. Another case from a few days ago: we managed to secure the products that were hidden in the freezer. So you can see that the ingenuity of criminals is very high. This bill just seals the system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Czech will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u196	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! High Izbo! The first question concerned liability for the storage of goods or the refrigerated car with medicines. Such responsibility will be borne by the trader, a pharmaceutical wholesaler, who will have a signed contract with the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. The pharmaceutical wholesaler shall, in accordance with the Pharmaceutical Law and the Health Minister's Regulation on Good Distribution Practice, apply certain rules for the storage of goods, medicines under appropriate conditions, e.g. under conditions which allow the appropriate temperature to be maintained. So responsibility is on their side. As to Mrs Iwona Michalek's question about the amount of drugs exported from Poland, I would like to say that we have, of course, estimated data that are talking about the amount of PLN 1.5 and 2 billion, with more detailed estimates of only five groups of medicines: anticoagulants, insulins, asthma medicines, Parkinson's disease and prostate cancer, indicating the amount of PLN 1 billion. So in this case, the ability to seal the system is enormous. Of course, it is difficult to estimate how successful we will be in this fight, because this market is very dynamic. We hope that this will be a preventive measure that will reduce illegal drug exports, those on the anti-export list. With regard to Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's question on foodstuffs, this list contains e.g. Powdered milk used in elimination diets in children who are allergic. These are the answers to all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u197	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, contained in print No 2156, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act (Print No 1996). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u198	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliament's Committee on Petitions, I would like to present, in the first reading procedure, a draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, which is contained in Parliament's printing No 1996. This proposal refers to the amendment of two provisions of the Code of Offences Act which, as it stands, do not comply with the principle of correct legislation set out in Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The first of the amended provisions, Article. 130 § 1, in its present wording, is clearly illogical, second, Article. 147a § 1, can be considered to be empty and not having any legal effect. The amendment of the bill is the reaction of the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions to a petition addressed to the Polish Parliament by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz. The Committee on Petitions at its meeting on 10 May 2017 considered the petition submitted as valid. The proposed law eliminates the article. 130 § 1 of the Code of Offences defective mention of the article. 120. This provision concerns a tree growing in the woods, whether cut out or knocked down. Under no circumstances can a tree be classified as a weapon, ammunition or material or an explosive device. The second amendment aims to give such a wording to the article. 147a § 1, which will coincide with the original intention of the legislator. For this purpose, two concepts are introduced instead of the use of the concept of running a medicinal establishment that no longer exists in legal circulation: the conduct of a medicinal product and the pursuit of a therapeutic activity. Both activities entered without the required entry in the register will be subject to detention, restriction of liberty or fine, as in the original provision of the establishment without the required entry in the register. The social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system. The amendments presented in the Act do not have economic or financial implications for the public finance sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u199	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft amendment to the Code of Offences Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is typical, extremely tidy, changes two small things. First of all, it adapts the Code of Offences to the amended law on medicinal establishments. It is quite obvious that there has been an oversight that the rule refers to entities that no longer operate in the legal field today, it is absolutely obvious. In the second part, however, the rule is also sequencing because it excludes the application of the Code of Offences to Crimes, such as the logging of a tree in the woods, where weapons or crimes are used in the crime. In this situation, it is difficult to imagine such a link that logging could also involve theft of ammunition or weapons, so this provision was not properly formulated from the outset and this exclusion covered the provision of the article. 120 unauthorized. It'll sort out this part of the regulation. Of course, this did not cause any major problems, because it was clear to all that this provision could not be applied in this situation, but ordering the rules is also our job and our role, so Law and Justice supports this project and requests that it be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Ms Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act. The proposal envisages a revision of two provisions which do not comply with the principles of correct legislation. The first amendment concerns the elimination from Article. 130 § 1 Code of Offences of Defective Calling Art. 120. The second amendment is to give new content to the article. 147a § 1. This article introduces two new concepts: the pursuit of a therapeutic activity and the conduct of a medicinal entity - in place of a no longer existing legal concept of the running of a medicinal plant. The Civic Platform is, of course, in favour of sending the project to committee. In the course of further work, it is worth taking into account, as also pointed out by the Attorney General, that perhaps there is no need in the article. 147a § 1 The Code of Offences as the next behavior in addition to the exercise of a medicinal activity without the required entry in the register indicates the keeping of a medicinal entity without the required registration, since one way of doing business is the conduct of a medicinal entity, but we leave this to the further work of the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u203	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Club15... No, because the Member doesn't. The modern club and the club of the Polish People's Party made written speeches. So the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. Isn't there any questions? Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Wójcik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u204	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I'm short. The position of the Ministry of Justice vis-à-vis this project is, of course, positive due to all the circumstances that have been cited by all my previous speakers, and I will also make a previous statement. Correction is needed as regards the provisions of the Article. 130 § 1 point 2 of the Code of Offences. Let me remind you that this is about what we call it. half: stealing and misappropriation, theft of forests, fences, destruction, damage or making unusable. In all these situations, the provisions shall not apply if the subject matter of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. In this context, on the other hand, the scope of the Article is covered. 120 The Code of Misdemeanors simply does not find any justification, because there is talk of forest theft, the object of which can only be a tree, unlike ordinary theft, where it can be a moving thing, so also a weapon. On the other hand, on the other hand, Article. 147a § 1 Code of Offences, it is worth noting that this provision in the part concerning the running of a health care establishment without the required registration was already introduced in the 1990s, and this legal act - specifically the law on health care establishments - was repealed in 2011. The Act on medicinal activities differently defined entities that could carry out medical activities, and I would remind you that, alongside independent public health establishments, it also introduced other entities, such as businesses, entrepreneurs, such as research institutes. On the other hand, with the introduction of this law, this provision has not been amended, which has put outside the scope of the standardization of that provision persons who pursue medicinal activities in a form other than a self-contained public health establishment. There is therefore a need to refine this provision so that the whole system is consistent. We therefore support the proposed proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u205	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u206	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club It is my pleasure to present the club's position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, print No 1996. The purpose of the proposed proposal is to amend two provisions of the Code of Offences which, as it stands, do not comply with the principle of correct legislation set out in Article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 120 The Code of Offences is to be terminated by excluding the application of the law on forest theft if the subject matter of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. In such a situation, the perpetrator would commit a crime. Since under no circumstances can the trees concerned be classified as weapons, ammunition or explosives, it is clear that the exemption is illogical and defective. The draft submitted shall also amend the Article. 147a § 1, which used the "health care establishment" that was eliminated from Polish legislation. Two concepts are introduced in its place: the conduct of a medicinal entity and the pursuit of a therapeutic activity. These changes are a manifestation of the natural and desirable process of improving and improving the Polish legal system. It is a pity, however, that they are the result of the work of the committee and not the government of the PiS, which is an obligation. Of course, the Modern Posel Club will support the proposed project and is in favour of its referral to further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party our position on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, print No. 1996. The aim of the proposed amendment is to amend two provisions of the Code of Offences which, as it stands, do not comply with the principles of correct legislation. Art. 130 § l The Code of Offence excludes the application of the law on the theft, the theft of forests, fences and destruction of property if the object of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. In that case, the perpetrator commits a crime. The reference in this provision to the article. 120 should be considered defective. This provision applies to trees growing in the woods, whether cut out or knocked down. Trees cannot be classified as weapons, ammunition, material or explosive. This draft also amends the wording of the Article. 147a § 1 Code of Offences: Who runs a health care establishment or an animal health establishment without the required entry in the register or records, shall be subject to detention, restriction of liberty or fine. For years, this provision has been obsolete and has no legal effect since the term "health care establishment" was eliminated from legal trading after the entry into force of the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2016 poz. 1638, late. zm.). Instead of using the legally no longer existing term for the establishment of a medicinal plant, the authors of the project introduce two concepts: the conduct of a medicinal entity and the pursuit of a therapeutic activity. Both activities entered, without the required entry in the register or records, will be punishable by detention, restriction of liberty or fine, as in the original provision for running a medicinal plant without the required entry in the register or records. High Izbo! The proposed draft sets out non-precise and outdated provisions of the Code of Offences. Its implementation will help to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u208	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it directs the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act, contained in the 1996 print, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. Waiting for the next point, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 46 hours 15 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 9th agenda: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the law on judicial costs in civil matters will not be considered. We proceed with the examination of items 11 and 12 of the agenda: 11. Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on actions undertaken in 2015 to implement the resolutions of the Polish Sejm of August 1, 1997. Charter of Rights of Persons with Disabilities together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (prints no. 855 and 921). 12. Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the actions undertaken in 2016 to implement the provisions of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of August 1, 1997. Charter of Rights of Persons with Disabilities together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (prints no. 1802 and 2080). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to present the information contained in the prints No. 855 and 1802. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland about the activities undertaken in the years 2015 and 2016 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of August 1, 1997. According to § The Government of the Republic of Poland is obliged to prepare annually information about initiatives and actions taken in a given year in order to implement the rights of persons with disabilities set out in this resolution. The information that you have already received and which is contained in the Seym Papers has been prepared on the basis of information collected from all ministries and selected offices. They concern the implementation in 2015 and 2016 of the resolution of the Sejm of 1 August 1997. The Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The information shall include descriptions of actions implemented, continued or undertaken in those years by ministries and offices within their substantive competence, statutory powers for the exercise of the rights laid down in the Seym Resolution. They are divided into specific actions in specific areas. I will begin to briefly discuss what you have in your documents and where you can learn in detail what is being done in individual resorts. As part of the health protection area, the Sports Act was amended in 2015. Since 1 January 2016, health care financed from the state budget from the part of which the Minister responsible for Health is responsible is also covered by disabled athletes qualified for both the national personnel of the Special Olympics and the national staff of the deaf games. In 2016, the Health Protection Act of 4 November 2016 on the support of pregnant women and their families was adopted. It sets out the powers of pregnant women and their families to support access to healthcare services and family policy instruments. According to the Act, a child with a disability sentenced to 18 years of age who has been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that occurred during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth, on the basis of a certificate from a primary health care doctor or health insurance doctor with a specialization of the second degree or a title of a specialist in the field of obstetrics, gynaecology, perinatology, neonatology or pediatrics and his parents are entitled to, among others.: priority in the provision of health care services, psychological assistance to parents, medical rehabilitation, medical devices such as diapers, catheters, prosthetics, on the basis of an order of an authorised person, purchase of medicines outside the order and other benefits supporting the family, including legal assistance. In 2016, the National Health Programme 2016-2020 was also prepared and launched. In accordance with the provisions of the Annex to the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 4 August 2016 on the 2016-2020 National Health Programme, the objectives of the programme will be pursued taking into account the need to ensure accessibility in accordance with the concept of universal design set out in Article. 2 The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Needs of Persons with Different Disabilities. In the field of social rehabilitation, a regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy amending the regulation on the types of tasks of professional and social rehabilitation of persons with disabilities contracted to foundations and NGOs entered into force on 18 November 2015. The purpose of the Regulation is to enable the county authorities and regional governments and the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to provide support services that are intended to enable or support the independent life of persons with disabilities, in particular personal assistance services and the maintenance of assistive dogs. In 2016, a law on support for pregnant women and families was also passed in this area. This allowed for further action to be taken on the preparation and implementation of the comprehensive support programme for families. On 20 December, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on a programme of comprehensive support for families, submitted by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The forms of action provided for in the programme are therefore addressed to people with disabilities and their families. The legal, organisational and financial solutions adopted in the programme aim at enabling the real and full social integration of people with disabilities and the psychological, social, functional and economic support of their families. As you know, today was the first reading of the second package of statutory amendments, which allow for the implementation of the programme. I hope that in the near future, we will also change the resolution of the Council of Ministers and update the programme for life as the expression and effect of the public consultation that took place. In this context, there were also a great deal of comments on how to supplement or adapt the changes in the programme to make them even better suited to the needs of people with disabilities. In 2016, the Council PFRON has announced a competition for applications for the execution of tasks by foundations and NGOs for self-reliance - increasing the activity of people with disabilities in social life. The projects submitted in the framework of the competition focused on increasing the independence of disabled persons and could be implemented on an annual or multiannual basis with a deadline of 31 March 2019. The competition included measures to increase the independence of people with disabilities and concerned the following types of projects: rehabilitation in institutions, support provided outside the institution, in particular training, courses, group workshops and individual activities, support services and sports training carried out on a continuous or cyclical basis. In the area: education in 2015 has been revised on the principles of funding for science. In this context, among others, it was introduced. the provision stating that the financing of statutory activities also includes tasks relating to the provision of conditions for the participation of disabled researchers and participants in doctoral studies in the implementation of research and development. The 2015 Regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education on how grants are to be fixed and the financial allocation for the maintenance of research capacity and on research or development and related tasks for the development of young researchers and participants in doctoral studies has also been amended. According to the above amendment, the Minister for Science and Higher Education may increase during the financial year grants for the maintenance of research capacity above the amount determined in accordance with the algorithm at the request of the individual in the case of the specific needs of that entity resulting from its research or development activities related inter alia. with the implementation of the task of ensuring the conditions for the participation of disabled researchers and participants in doctoral studies in the implementation of scientific research or development work. The increase in grants to maintain research potential shall not exceed 25% of the amount of the basic grant determined in accordance with the algorithm. In 2016, the Council The Ministry of National Education has carried out activities to prepare assumptions for legislative work. As part of the nationwide educational debate, the student. Parents. Teacher - Good Change. Voivodship debates on special education, vocational training, financing and security were organised. In order to step up the work on the development of the draft law on amending the Education System Act covering system solutions in the education of pupils with special educational needs, the Minister of National Education has set up a Team on special educational needs, whose tasks were to develop proposals for systemic changes in the education of children and young people with special educational needs. In 2016, the Council The Ministry of National Education also initiated the work of the interministerial team, among others. with representatives of health, family, labour and social policies, including those working for children and young people with disabilities. Council for International Classification of Functionality, Disability and Health, State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, Polish Association for People with Intellectual Disability. These actions were designed and aimed at harmonising the case law system in Poland using a functional diagnosis taking into account the International Classification of Functionality, Disability and Health - version for children and young people. In 2016, the Regulation of the Minister for National Education of 27 August 2012 on the basis of pre-school education and general education in the various types of schools was amended. The changes introduced concerned the basis for pre-school education and consisted in adapting the requirements for specific messages, skills to psychophysical and communication capabilities and the pace of psychophysical development of children with disabilities, including restrictions on disability. As far as the labour market area is concerned, the employment rate of people with disabilities aged 16 years and over was 16,5% in 2015 , employment rate - 14.5% , and the unemployment rate is 12.3%. For people with disabilities of working age, the employment rate was 25.9%. , employment rate - 22,5% and the unemployment rate reached 13%. In 2016, the employment rate of people with disabilities of working age increased by 1.2 percentage points compared to the 2015 result and thus reached a record value of 23.7%. As far as unemployment is concerned, an increase of 1.4 percentage points was recorded and reached 11.6% , also reaching a value that has not yet been recorded. Thus, the labour force participation rate of people with disabilities of working age increased by 0.9 percentage points compared to 2015 and ultimately amounted to 26.8%. The regulation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on the refund of social security contributions for persons with disabilities was amended in 2015. The purpose of the amending Regulation is to implement the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act to the extent that it allows disabled persons carrying out their business and disabled farmers, and farmers obliged to pay contributions for a disabled household member to apply for reimbursement of social security contributions from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities paid after the deadlines resulting from the provisions of the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on the Social Insurance Scheme of farmers. In 2016, the Council PFRON has announced a competition for "ready to work" - the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. The projects notified under the competition concerned the entry of persons with disabilities into the labour market as well as the former multiannual projects with a deadline from 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2019. The aim of the competition is the entry of people with disabilities into the labour market, including through the use of the assisted employment method. Project performance indicators have been set. The projects financed in the competition must assume a second result indicator, i.e. the number of beneficiaries who will maintain employment for at least 6 months from the date of employment of not less than 20% final beneficiaries. Preferences have been introduced for applications with a value of at least 25% of the first result indicator final beneficiaries. The competition also provides for the possibility of receiving reimbursement of the financial contribution paid by the applicant from non-public sources if, after 12 months from the date on which the final beneficiaries were recruited, the applicant demonstrates the maintenance of the employment of those beneficiaries. As part of this funding, 4193 persons - final beneficiaries - were supported in the competitions. In the area of infrastructure and the elimination of functional barriers, the Revitalisation Act was implemented on 18 November 2015. It introduced an obligation for self-governments carrying out the process of revitalizing the application of the principle of universal design in projects, as defined in Article. 2 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In 2015, 41 public universities also received funding from the state budget for funding 59 investments, which included the scope of the works, in terms of investments carried out in the framework of the multi-annual programme of the campus 600 years of renewal of the Jagiellonian University, investments carried out outside the multiannual programmes and projects co-financed by the European Union. adaptation to the use of disabled persons. From the information sent by all ministers and the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister in 2015 and 2016, it is clear that a significant proportion of public buildings in each Ministry and in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister are already accessible to disabled persons, including wheelchair users. In the area of culture, the projects were mainly carried out by museum institutions and largely followed up on previous actions for people with disabilities. The vast majority of museums develop a special offer for people with disabilities taking into account their needs, physical and mental abilities. Museum tours, museum lessons, programmes often prepared on request and commissioned by various institutions cooperating in this area with museums are to take into account the needs of people with disabilities. Blind people can enter museums for expositions with guide dog, and after prior telephone notification under the guide's care they can learn selected interior elements by touch. Museum institutions are increasingly adapting exposures to visitors with visual impairment. The blind and the visually impaired receive art mainly through touch, so the museums must be prepared for it. So the solution is reduced copies and castings of exhibits, and to explain them convex mockups. In area seven, we discussed comprehensive changes in the institutions of incapacity and capacity for marriage by people with mental disorders. In 2015, the Council The Ministry of Justice has been working on the proposal for a bill amending the Civil Code Act, the Family and Care Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care System and some other laws. The objectives were adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2015. The solutions contained therein aim, in particular, to increase the protection of persons with disabilities by replacing a model in which a judicial decision deprives a person of legal capacity, the principle of full legal capacity of an adult and the limitation of the possibility to use it exceptionally where this is necessary due to the condition of the disabled person, the scope of which would be determined on an individual basis, taking into account the individual situation of a particular person. The existing separate care institutions for the disabled are abandoned and are replaced by a different care institution, which is tailored to the situation of the individual. The institution was then dealt with with the introduction of a custody mandate and the abolition of the existing matrimonial obstacles: total impropriety, mental illness, mental underdevelopment, and the introduction of a new condition preventing marriage in the form of a condition excluding conscious expression of will. In area nine, we've gathered information on how to combat digital exclusion. On 10 April 2015, a regulation of the Minister of Administration and Digitalisation on specific requirements for the provision of facilities for disabled persons by providers of publicly available telephone services entered into force. It is about adapting service offices to the needs of people with disabilities. In accordance with the provisions in question, 1/6 units serving each supplier's users should, firstly, be equipped with devices enabling the online connection to a sign language translator or a language-mig system, or provide services for a Polish sign language translator or a language-mig system, secondly, equipped with devices enabling the extension of the text and presentation of the terms and conditions or price list, thirdly accessible to disabled persons with impaired movement organs. In 2015, the Council The Ministry of Digitisation continued to carry out a public task called "Actions to improve the availability of resources and Internet services for disabled people and senior citizens." The implementation of Action 8.3 continued in 2015: Anti-Digital Exclusion - eInclusion, Operational Programme - Innovation Economy. Okay. 200,000. persons, including disabled persons, have access to the Internet directly in the household or within the framework of the so-called. coordination activities providing access to the Internet in the municipalities' sub-units, e.g. cultural houses, classrooms and schools. The implementation of the system project, which is part of the fight against digital exclusion among 50+ people, including people with disabilities, has also continued. In 2015, the Polish digital lighthouses carried out more than 7 thousand. classes in which more than 50,000 participated. persons. Digital lanterns of Poland are local volunteers who teach how to use the Internet and modern technologies, as well as show the benefits of their use in everyday life. The next area is equal access for persons with disabilities to emergency services. In 2015, the Council The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as part of its work on developing the functionality of the emergency notification system, has carried out efforts to develop rules for receiving and handling emergency calls sent to the 112 emergency number by means of short text messages, SMS messages, among others. It will also enable deaf and deaf people to provide emergency calls in situations where a voice call is not possible. On the other hand, in 2016 work on developing the functionality of the emergency notification system in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration launched work on creating a mobile application for sending emergency calls to 112, which will make the emergency notification service widely available to a group of recipients using modern technological solutions. It is assumed that, due to its specific nature, the application will be primarily a facilitation for people with disabilities, especially the deaf, in terms of access to the emergency notification service. Currently, the system does not have such a function. The concept of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration's competition for a mobile application for sending emergency calls to 112 has been developed. The competition was announced in 2017. The aim of the competition is to create a pilot project in the demo version, which will be improved and tested in parallel with the implementation of a solution providing everyone with access to the 112 emergency number. The new functionality is to be used for emergency calls in the form of text messages, which will make it very easy for the deaf. The 112 application would therefore be implemented together with the introduction of SMS 112, i.e. Most likely at the turn of 2017 and 2018. The tenth area is the use of European funds for people with disabilities. In June, 30 June 2016, the first meeting of the Working Group on equal opportunities and non-discrimination, including accessibility for people with disabilities of EU funds 2014 and-2020, which was created to coordinate the horizontal principle of accessibility and exchange of information and experience between the various operational programmes. Her main tasks include: initiating actions to promote accessibility for people with disabilities of the European Structural and Investment Funds, identifying areas under equal opportunities and non-discrimination policies, including accessibility for persons with disabilities, which should be examined in the framework of evaluations carried out, developing coherent approaches and solutions for applying the principle to the different types of disability. The first meeting of the team was devoted to discussing the use of a mechanism for rational improvements, project selection criteria and further planned actions for the effective implementation of the principle of accessibility. In the second half of 2016, actions were carried out to select the public procurement procedure and to ensure the functioning of the support body for all managing and intermediate bodies for the correct implementation of the accessibility principle - advice to the managing authorities of the national operational programmes and regional operational programmes. The above tasks will be complemented by the introduction of a "watch dog' mechanism, the role of which will be to verify actual accessibility at the level of individual projects, mainly projects financed by the ESF. The contract was signed with the contractor on 30 January 2017. In conclusion, we have a little bit of information about the worrying trends in the areas we have been talking about. People with disabilities of working age are still largely outside the labour market despite significant subsidised support from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and the State budget. Secondly, public institutions, among others. ministries and central offices, most of which are unable to reach the statutory 6% employment rate of disabled persons. Thirdly, it is unsatisfactory to employ people with disabilities in the civil service despite the introduction in 2011 of amendments to the civil service rules for disabled persons, including the introduction of the principle of priority in civil service employment in those ministries and central offices where the employment rate of disabled persons in the month preceding the date of publication of the notice of recruitment is less than 6% , provided that the disabled person participating in the selection is among not more than five of the best candidates selected. The information provided shows that resorts and central offices are interested in increasing the employment of people with disabilities and are trying to reach as many people with disabilities as possible, among others. by establishing cooperation with non-governmental organisations engaged in the professional activation of persons with disabilities. As part of the summary, we also wanted to provide examples of actions that could be taken. The long-term priority should be to successfully increase the employment of people with disabilities, in particular inactive workers at working age, mainly in the context of demographic change in the country. Secondly, the promotion of employment of people with disabilities in civil service should continue, inter alia. in the form of training of civil servants and conference and seminar meetings, and measures should be taken to encourage ministries and central offices to establish closer cooperation with non-governmental organisations in support of people with disabilities in the labour market. It's in short what's contained in the information. Of course, if anyone's interested in details, I invite you to read them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u210	Thank you very much. Now I will ask Anna Krupka to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs regarding the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland about the actions undertaken in 2015 and in 2016 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. These are 855 and 921 and 1802 and 2080 respectively. This resolution obliges the Government to report annually on its actions by 30 June. These reports were dealt with by the committee. The information was drawn up by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on the basis of data provided by ministers and central government heads. They included a description of the activities carried out in 2015 and 2016, both by the Ministry and by the Central Authorities, in the implementation of the rights set out in the Sejm's resolution. Above all, the adoption of a landmark law deserves attention. On 4 November 2016, the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families was adopted, which defined the powers of pregnant women and their families to provide health care, most importantly as regards complicated pregnancy. In this case, new regulations have also been introduced, such as the provision of health care services, psychological assistance to parents, medical rehabilitation, unlimited medical devices and the purchase of medicines outside the order of persons, the families concerned, but also other activities supporting the family. A National Health Programme (NAP) was also prepared for 2016 and 2020. It notes that health facilities should be designed in accordance with the universal principle set out in Article. 2 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In the field of social rehabilitation outside the Act of 4 November 2016, a comprehensive support programme for families was also adopted. It was implemented in the form of two sets of laws adopted in 2017. The first was adopted on 22 June, while the second was processed a little later. These are legal, organisational and financial solutions that ensure greater integration, social and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. It is also worth noting, for example, the announcement by the state rehabilitation fund in 2016 of a competition for tasks carried out by NGOs. A course for self-reliance aimed at increasing the activity of people with disabilities in society. The competition mainly consisted in conducting continuous rehabilitation, i.e. in institutions, support implemented outside institutions, but also trainings, group workshops or sports trainings. A nationwide educational debate was held on the activities of the Ministry of National Education. Parents. Teacher - Good Change, which affected in particular the topics of special education, vocational training and financing of activities relating to the safety of the student at school. As far as the labour market is concerned, there is also a "ready to work" contest announced by the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in 2016 regarding the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. More than 4,000 have benefited from the competition. beneficiaries. As regards 2015, the Revitalization Act, which entered into force on 18 February 2015 and which laid down an obligation for local authorities to apply the principles of universal design in accordance with the definition of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is much wider and more complete than the action under the Charter discussed by us. In 2015, 41 universities received funding for 59 investments in works adapting facilities to the needs of people with disabilities so that they could use these facilities. During the committee's work, issues such as the employment rate of people with disabilities were considered during the debate, but the subject of the Act on increasing the participation of citizens in the election of local authorities, and in particular the resulting issue of correspondence voting, which was finally introduced, which could be used by people with disabilities, was also discussed. The Commission requests the adoption of information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u212	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Krupka will be the first to act on behalf of the Parliamentary Club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Club of Law and Justice in relation to the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland about the actions taken to implement the resolutions of the Polish Sejm of August 1, 1997. The information relates to the activities undertaken in 2015 and 2016. First of all, it is necessary to stress here the fact that the law, which I also mentioned during the presentation of the Commission's position, the Act on the support of pregnant women and families, was adopted on 4 November 2016, which defines the entitlement of pregnant women and families to receive health care, in particular in the event of a complicated pregnancy. This law introduces new, important regulations establishing even priority in relation to the provision of health care services or psychological assistance to parents, medical rehabilitation, the purchase of medicines supporting families covered by the law. I also wanted to draw attention to statistics on the employment of people with disabilities. Although the employment of people with disabilities at working age is increasing, which, of course, is affected by the improving economic situation in the country, by falling unemployment, I feel that this growth is still insufficient. We should do everything we can to introduce further action, as many as possible actions as possible, which will lead to further growth. It should also be noted that public institutions, offices, ministries, but also local authorities do not reach the 6% employment rate of disabled persons despite preferential conditions created in the civil service. In my opinion, therefore, as much action as possible should be taken to ensure that the employment rate of people with disabilities changes and improves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Piechot will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is very negative about the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The card is like a spotlight: it illuminates our reality. We even once thought that the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities may have caused the Charter to cease to be such an important document. She once opened the door to such solutions, guaranteed the subjective treatment of people with disabilities. And that is the essence of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I thought, at the end of Mrs Krupka's speech on the committee's position, I heard that a correspondence vote had just been put in place. After all, you eliminated the correspondence vote, and only after the storm that started, you partially restored it. This is symbolic for the whole treatment of people with disabilities. For what was this justified? The fact that the disabled will trade in votes that the disabled will participate in electoral fraud. It cannot be said that this is neither a case nor an accident, because in 2011 a group of Members of the Law and Justice challenged the right of persons with disabilities to vote by proxy or by correspondence to the Constitutional Tribunal. So it's not like it happened now. This is the philosophy of looking at people with disabilities and thinking about people with disabilities. Many times you refer to the Life Programme, indicating the fundamental importance of it as a flagship proof of your commitment and sensitivity. Then why aren't you following the Constitutional Court's judgment which ordered equalisation of benefits to caretakers of adults with disabilities with the amount of benefits for caretakers of children with disabilities? I mean, that's what you've been looking for. You have repeatedly pointed out to us that we have introduced a solution that these guardians discriminated against. And when the request made by Members of Law and Justice was confirmed in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the government of PO-PSL at the end of its term of office prepared a draft law and reserved funds for this purpose in the 2016 budget - silence. Since you started ruling, you've forgotten your own demands, so in my opinion - but that's what you have to call it - it's hypocritical. Well, what else do you call it? As long as you were in the opposition, you thought it had to be done, and now it's been over two years and it's still not being done. I will return to the civil service problem again, because the Minister mentioned that in this service these solutions work. Destroying civilian service, i.e. eliminating competitions in it, the preference mechanism was abolished because it was included in the contest mechanism. So if there are no competitions, it's hard to get preferences for people with disabilities. Here again symbolic, but so significant, such an easy multiplication of promises without covering. At the beginning of last year, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Rafalska announced that by the end of 2017 5 000 would be set up in public administration. new jobs for people with disabilities or at least 5 000 will be employed. persons with disabilities. I'm asking you to answer where the $5,000 is. newly employed persons with disabilities in public administration, because this is a question of the type: I check. Because how many such good-sounding promises can be multiplied, and then quickly forget about it, hoping that such amnesia will affect others as well? I will also stress that changes in education have not introduced new support for children with disabilities here. Conversely, many felt threatened, and to a large extent because government representatives had strange ideas about the place of children with special needs in the educational system. E.g. One of the high representatives of the government at a conference that was then tried to minimize, said that basically it was necessary to consider whether children with disabilities should not study elsewhere, except in ordinary schools. I understand that there are such whispering ideas, and I understand that there are also people who would like to get rid of these children from schools, but it is, for God's sake, that government representatives should strongly resist such ideas and, in the meantime, put them under consideration: let us consider, perhaps we should teach these children elsewhere. How does that fit into the convention? How does this apply to the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Many parents of disabled children look forward to further development in education with the greatest concern, fearing that the possibility of teaching individual children particularly severely disabled in schools, among their peers, will definitely end. Even if they were only to meet their peers there, and often it also means attending part of the classes, there is no doubt that it is of great value, educational value, educational value. Meanwhile, many parents, and also wise teachers, say that next year the possibility of individual teaching children with disabilities in schools will most definitely end. Another point: the 500+ programme, introduced at the very beginning of the term of office, and consistently excluded from this programme children with light disabilities between the ages of 16 and 18. Let me remind you that by the age of 16, there is no differentiation in the degree of disability, it is determined after the age of 16. It turns out that during the last 2 years when this benefit is paid to children, children with light disabilities do not have such a situation and status as children with moderate or significant disabilities. Let me repeat: many times the fact that they are disabled only lightly is the result of many years of hard work of their parents, educators, psychologists. This work must continue not only until the age of 18; it is often continued for a long, long time. But thanks to this, these people gain independence, they gain the ability to function, so it is a huge value. Why is this small handful of children treated so grossly worse than others? A symbolic issue that shows what important institutions under the Minister's authority have been doing. In 2016 a new competition for the logo of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities was held for the President of Kwiatkowski. It would be funny if it wasn't that ridiculous and even scary. The new logo was a symbolic flower. That's the kind of flowers you used to make, Mr. Kwiatkowski. In the same way, Minister, and this is already a bigger case, and she is still waiting for an explanation of how the contract was concluded by President Kwiatkowski for the lease by the State Rehabilitation Fund at ul. Railroad? The fund will pay PLN 27 million for this, and President Kwiatkowski suggested various strange connections with the contractor with which he entered into this agreement. They're strange places that require a lot of investment. I know it's still missing from the rehabilitation fund, but the deal's been made. We expect this to be clearly explained. Finally, I think, a symbolic question again. Question: "Did the drivers of government limos that high-ranking government members parked in places reserved for disabled people have any consequences?" Were the ministers who allowed these business cars to be parked in some way instructed by the Prime Minister about high impropriety? Because if government members set an example that such simple laws can be broken in such a demonstration, public, arrogant way, how can it be required that others obey the law so that they respect the rights of persons with disabilities in a decent way? And that's what the Disabled Rights Charter is about. Finally, I will remind you once again that the recent debate, this debate on the right to vote in correspondence, has shown how fragile these rights are, which for many years, for 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, we have built and implemented. Today all these rights were seriously threatened, since the correspondence vote could be challenged and thrown out of the Polish electoral code, and then partially restored, using extremely unworthy arguments. I mean, how many people are going to go through this complicated procedure that's in the electoral order today so they can vote? In this situation, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requests the rejection of government information on the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2015 and 2016. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u216	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pursuit will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start by saying that the subject so important, so extensive, is becoming such a shoved topic in this debate. Several times the repositioning of a point is not conducive to careful and detailed reference to the records of these reports. But I want to say one important thing. For 20 years we have a Disabled Rights Charter, it is valid, and for 20 years each year reports are submitted on the execution of this card. This is not just about policies for people with disabilities, it is about everything that happens in social policy. The results of this project cannot be assessed because the Sejm does not receive reports prepared in such a way that we know what the starting state is, where we are going, what results we are going to, how much money we spent along the way to achieve it, and what we have succeeded and what we have failed. You just don't make reports like that. We have action, we have a presentation every year of what we've done. Previous crews are telling us what we've done. And it is not really possible to assess whether Poles' money is spent effectively and effectively. Activity, ad hoc action for the needs of a group that will fight something at a given time, can be seen very well on the example of people with disabilities, because we have the instability of this policy, even though the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been in force for 20 years. A mother who is pregnant and has a disabled child, as in any normal democratic country should know what way of life, what support throughout the life of a child: from birth to kindergarten, to education to adult life, employment or full care, is guaranteed by her country. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of policy. I am still appealing to the Minister and appealing to the Government, knowing that, in the event of many negligence, these actions have also helped people with disabilities, these ad hoc institutional programmes or strongly named ones, such as the last programme "For Life." These are actions that we can boast about in such reports, but do they radically change the situation of people with disabilities? I don't think so. The subject needs to be dealt with thoroughly, just as I said: based on a concrete plan, indicators, and really meaningful action. We have an example of this activity: parents of children with disabilities won a care service of 1,400 PLN a few years ago, but since it was a spectacular action, there was a strike in the Sejm, other carers of people with disabilities were forgotten. I refer here to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, to this judgment, which has not yet been implemented, which has very effectively divided these environments. I know that for every authority a divided environment is better than one that is organized and compact, because it can fight for its rights. Only that if we are talking about the interests of people with disabilities and this environment - Minister, you mentioned here today that this is the most important thing for you - we cannot act like this, we cannot act in action and boast about individual programmes, and we can account for ourselves, because we will always have such an empty, barren debate, and in the end we will have groups of people who will try to beat each other's ministries and Members and fight something for each other. This is not the policy for people with disabilities. With regard to the implementation of the individual requests of this card, access to... I see the things the government's done for two years. They're always steps forward. It is a good thing that they are even that such actions are being taken, and it cannot be said that there is no such thing. I will not quote them here because you have done so effectively before. I will focus on those things that weren't there and could be: people's access to goods and services enabling them to participate fully in society. I'm gonna start with a basic case. I'll remind her. The Kukiz15 complex project, advocated by the environment of people with disabilities, was properly supported by 200 NGOs. Firstly, it allows people with intellectual disabilities not to be called mentally impaired persons, because it is derogatory to them, secondly, it says that it is not necessarily because of tooth pain that they are incapacitated, but that a medical guardian and a legal guardian can be established. You thought it was a bill that had some legal flaws, and the only flaw was that the judges, the family judges were afraid they wouldn't be able to rule. You made a commitment - that was a year and a half ago - that you would correct it and prepare a project like this. So far, there's no project. 100,000. persons who are incapacitated. They don't all have to be incapacitated. They are being deprived of all rights, including electoral rights, just because they have fears, e.g. before you go to the doctor. Access to treatment and diagnostics. 2 years - average queue. Care allowance - PLN 153, not validized for many years. It's the same thing that tells us what access we have and how we can rehabilitate and heal. Nobody in Poland is counting on state health care or rehabilitation. Mothers who need to rehabilitate their children ask NGOs and people to do so. More money for rehabilitation is able to raise itself thanks to 1% than when they count on you. As far as occupational therapy workshops, environmental self-help homes, day support facilities are concerned, you've raised your salaries. 2,000. gross zloty is a salary which is in 3/4 workshops of occupational therapy, and is required of these people not only heart, but also high qualifications. Then pay attention to it. Now I will return to these circles of NGOs. In the recent case of pseudonazis, the possibility of easy public gatherings is at risk. I'm asking the Minister, the attorney-in-chief. people with disabilities to pay attention to this, because it will hit the small organizations that are just collecting money to rehabilitate people with disabilities. As far as the labour market is concerned, you have mentioned that the effects are not visible, but this is among others. that the state simply does not plan public spending in such a way as to check its effectiveness. That's why we have what we have, and you can't see the effects. As far as social security is concerned, the social pension is 84%. I'm asking you why. Why do you think that a person on a social disability pension has fewer needs than the one with the lowest benefit, which thanks to the State has actually been raised to 1 000. Evil? But why is there such a difference? Why a social pension is 84% ? I would like to remind you - and I would also ask the Minister to draw attention to this - that there is another Kukiz15 project in the Seym prints, which talked about letting these people at least make money, because there are professional activity establishments, there are protected workplaces. This is a project that just allows them to earn up to 130% of the lowest salary, because for 800 PLN you can't really live in Poland, you can't treat it, you can't rehabilitate it. It's just physically impossible. When it comes to self-government representation and so that NGOs can get together, they get together very well. They've got a sejm. people with disabilities, various forums, organizations. All I have is a request. The last two years have been a really big gap in communicating and seeking opinions from these organizations. I know there's been a consultation, I know there's been meetings with NGOs in different places. This is commendable. Nevertheless, it is worth it for all documents, which, to any extent, as was the case with the electoral code... That's what I called for. There was no opinion of any non-governmental organisation on this correspondence vote. So they have their representation, but they forget to consult important documents. And I'm not just talking about strict documents dealing with people with disabilities, but first of all I'm talking about documents that cover the whole area of their lives: from science, education, religion to all elements, including electoral rights. So it is worth taking care of, not necessarily setting up teams and waiting for these teams to gather, just using the help of local governments of people with disabilities. To sum up all these things: of course, these are critical remarks. I could list a lot of things, but these are really basic things that need to be looked at. Oh, and one thing from my district, very important, but it affects the whole of Poland, because we are talking about specific places of care for children and autists, adults of autists who cannot function themselves. We have three such places in Poland. One of them is the Life Farm, a model example. All the ministries used to come there. She's in danger of bankruptcy. You've been waiting in line for a dozen years. Parents who have no other option to provide care for their child, because this child really requires 24/7 care, hope only in such facilities and places. This place is underfunded. We only have three places like this. Minister, this is one of the priorities, because care services in the place of residence for 15 PLN per hour gross up to a maximum of 20 PLN are fiction, because there are no services in Poland that are still willing to travel for their own money to help in their homes. Such places should also be taken care of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u218	Thank you very much. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska will now take the floor on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u219	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Today we are talking about actions taken by the Polish government in 2015 and 2016 against people suffering from disabilities. This is a specific settlement of the government from the implementation of the resolution of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Polish Sejm adopted on 1 August 1997. And although this document does not have legal force, it obliges the rulers each year to comply with the provisions it contains, and thus to make efforts to guarantee the exercise of the rights set out in the resolution for the benefit of persons with disabilities in order to ensure that they are actually equal opportunities and non-discrimination. After examining these two comprehensive reports, I would like to first draw attention to the visible positive changes in Poles' awareness. Persons with disabilities from year to year with increasing power break into space and public debate. Slowly also in Poland there is a fashion for non-discrimination, for being available, for creating reality without barriers. But the example goes from above, and the government does not keep up with this fashion, not only in creating rules and implementing them, but also in shining example. What does it mean to be available, Minister? Unadjusted buildings, communication problems, low number of employees, including in ministries and offices, lack of training. Why doesn't money go for that? People come to us who say: Yes, the Ministry has posted information that there is a recruitment to the offices, to the ministries. We go there, we knock, it turns out that we don't have enough qualifications because we have graduate degrees in another field or we don't know about this or that, and instead of training us, sacrifice us, I don't know, two weeks, a month, even as part of a free practice, for training so that we can get a job... We kiss the doorknob, we're sent back with a receipt. There's just no time for this, no desire, no money, no idea what, Minister. I think these are the actions that should be taken. I would also like to refer to a few points, although not enough time for everything, of course. The first, quite trivial thing - statistics. We know how many people are disabled in Poland, because there are at least two reports about it, but nobody is really able to give their exact number and sign up for it. This is also shown in the data provided in both reports. People with disabilities in Poland are about 3,200 thousand. to close to 7700 thousand. Divergence is enormous. The main source of information on this subject is the censuses, which we have in Poland once every 10 years. We are now based on the 2011 census, and the two government information discussed relates to it. The next census is in 2021. Without specific data, it is difficult to estimate not only the necessary solutions, but also the means to implement them. It is difficult to determine whether we have a problem in Poland, for example. with the communication of those excluded or not, because we do not know how many are blind and deaf. There is no such solution and there is no response in any of the two reports discussed today. Accessibility. More and more every year, as I mentioned, we understand how important it is not to rule out, not to discriminate, to give others the feeling that, since they live in Poland, regardless of their state of health and disability, they are members of our community and, as a result, they deserve equal access to everything. You can see that they see and understand it also by the rulers, the law changes. It turns out, however, that dignified life is often not about regulations alone, but about compliance with them. Here I have a question for you, Minister, but also for your colleagues, ministers from other departments: What does it look like to control compliance with the rules adopted? Who's gonna do this? How? We are aware that despite the rights of people with disabilities they are still discriminated against in Poland - which is why they do not respect these rights - and they have no one to appeal to. They come, they say that the law guarantees it for them, but their employers or people to whom they address in the matter of building law, the people who create it, they build our reality, for example architecturally, in Poland, simply do not know these regulations. Who's gonna account for them? In 2016 it was a kind of boom to finance sign language courses in offices. Unfortunately, the authorities didn't take it very professionally. Basic courses were purchased, 60 hours. There's a lot of money going for it. In one of the reports I read that you are pleased that many people have benefited from help trained in sign language for office staff. I think it's over $3,000. persons have benefited from the assistance of such workers. But I run a deaf team, as the Minister probably knows, and these people say that yes, you can approach, you can knock on the window, you can say hello in sign language, say good morning, a deaf person gets documents to read, but it is worth noticing that not all deaf people can read, because for them it is a foreign language, and that's all, that ends with the whole skill. Just because someone took a 60-hour sign language course, which they went to, I remember, a huge amount of money, doesn't mean they're able to give reliable information to a deaf person and handle the matter for her. Authorities boast of accessibility for people with disabilities, but experience and observation contradict that. Most offices are located in old historic buildings which cannot be adapted to the needs of people with mobility disabilities. Information on the possibilities and rights of persons with disabilities shall be placed in invisible or incomprehensible places, e.g. in writing. I mentioned that not all deaf people are able to read it. The desire to use the help of a sign language translator must be notified no later than 3 days before the arrival at the office. That also poses problems, because how does a deaf person get an interpreter? She needs to come and talk to somebody about her needing that translator because she's got a job to do. That's the reality, Minister. Professional activity. When the 2016 report is read, there is nothing left but to enjoy the increase in employment of people with disabilities and at the same time the decline in unemployment. Employment rates of people of working age increased by 1.2 percentage points compared to 2015 indicators, thus reaching a record value of 23.7%. Unemployment fell by 1.4 percentage points at the same time and amounted to 11.6%. Nevertheless, one in six persons with disabilities aged 16 and over and one in four at working age are unemployed. The actions taken are therefore not effective enough. State institutions are not the best example. Only in some... It is worth noting that according to some statistics people with disabilities are supposedly less. If so, it does not surprise the declines in other areas, e.g. unemployment. That's worth taking into account, too. Access to emergency services - you also mentioned this here, Minister. Work on the mobile application for sending emergency calls to 112 takes many months, and calls for many years. The 2016 report states that the 112 application with the introduction of SMS 112 will be implemented at the turn of 2017 and 2018. We have almost half of February 2018 and there is no information about what is happening to the application. There is silence in public space about applications, and from the letter I received in mid-January from the Ministry of Digitalization, it appears that the choice of the target solution and the necessary implementation and legislative work should start in the first quarter of 2018. Question: "When will this be?" What kind of delays are you assuming? The problem isn't technology, it's the inability to communicate between resorts, and that needs to be highlighted. The long-awaited work drags on in time because the state is unable to talk to each other and cooperate. There are two ministries working with the 112 application - the Ministry of Digitalization and the Ministry of Home Affairs, and I know that you are simply unable to figure out who will be responsible for what and who will do what, and this is about human life. It is worth noting that such an application already exists and operates in some regions of Poland without the support of the government. So you cannot hide from the fact that this cannot be done or that it takes months or even years to run a life-saving application for people with disabilities. This is where we need to act. I regret reading the 2016 report that every step of the way you refer to the adopted law "For Life." I regret it because it was supposed to be a good change, and it is just a glimpse of hope for a good change. These are assumptions, not solutions for which the environment of those excluded has been waiting for years. Such solutions are prepared by others, developed in the course of months of consultation with the environments of those concerned and affected. These projects are ready and waiting for your grace. They often rot in seym freezers for months. An example is our law, one of which is the draft, print No. 1100, which today in the social policy committee had its first reading after 1.5 years of submission and was directed to the subcommittee. This is a draft amendment of the Law on Family Benefits regulating, among others, the issues of benefits for carers of disabled persons, compensation for caretakers, so that there is no distinction as to whether someone is caring for a child or an adult. The project was submitted to the subcommittee. There are voices that you want to reject it, because instead of adopting ready-made solutions developed together with the environment of people with disabilities, you have established your team, in which you do your analyses, your debates, prolonging the time that depends on the quality of life and rehabilitation of people with disabilities, as well as the quality of life of carers. This draft is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the judgment for which the Members of the Constitutional Tribunal have applied. You've taken over the government, it's been two years, and you haven't done anything about it, you're just talking to everyone, and it's not because it's hard to get into the teams that you're running. I appeal to the Minister to take over [[♪ The bell ♪]] to make things really necessary, that is to say, things that are about saving lives and not just debating. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u220	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. The Member has given his voice in writing. Therefore, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the government's information on the activities undertaken in 2015 and 2016 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997 on the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, together with the positions of committees. Unfortunately, the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not have legal force, but it is a government commitment to a particular concern for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, because the situation of people with disabilities is still not the best in our country. The information presented on the situation in 2015 and 2016 comprehensively addressed issues related to disabled people, which were dealt with by individual ministries. It is difficult to assess in such a short time all the actions presented during this period. So out of necessity, I'm going to limit myself to a few examples. Many activities have taken place in the Ministry of National Education over the past 2 years, which included pupils with various types of special care and gave them increased attention. Standards have been developed for teaching people with special educational needs. Efforts have been made to provide a basis for the programme education of children and young people with special educational needs. Unfortunately, the materials collected show that many children have completed their upper secondary education. There are no comprehensive solutions to prevent people with disabilities from stopping at this stage of education. I am pleased that measures have been taken to increase access to the 112 emergency number for deaf and visually impaired people, but it must be stressed that we still have a lot to do on the exclusion of digital disabled people. A great deal of attention has been paid to the implementation of the idea of hiring people with disabilities. However, I believe that there is still a lack of training for disabled people and potential future employers. The pain of people with disabilities is architectural barriers. There is still much work to be done on this issue in 2016. I am convinced that this problem will gradually be addressed by the current government, which has put the emphasis on adapting infrastructure to the needs of people with disabilities, including older people. Government information on the situation of people with disabilities in 2015 and 2016 showed a number of issues worthy of praise. However, we cannot rest on our laurels. We should all roll up our sleeves and see many areas requiring change in order to improve the fate of people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u222	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. As the first Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's been a lot of talk about this card here. I would also like to ask about issues which, from my point of view, are equally important, and concern what is happening mainly under the care of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It is about spreading sign language, which Mrs Wróblewska has already mentioned, in offices, in public administration, about increasing this 6% threshold for employment of people with disabilities in offices, but above all... The Government of Law and Justice boasts that it reduces unemployment, that we have such beautiful indicators, so it would be good to lean on the fact that also in a group of people with disabilities these indicators are at a similar level. And one more important question. Since 1 January, carers of adults with disabilities have lost their right to rehabilitation relief. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is whether it was a conscious action for people with disabilities or whether there would be any corrections these activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Referring to the report, which has just been widely discussed, I would like to ask why the level of resources of the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for municipalities and powiats is decreasing, so that there is less money each year. As a result, there is a huge deficit in financing the elimination of architectural barriers and in communicating. Does the Ministry know that Poles wait years to remove barriers that allow people with disabilities to install bathrooms, leave the house or purchase orthopaedics? I paid attention to this when we discussed the draft state budget for 2018. When will this situation improve? How does that fit the disability card? Just this card. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this respect, it shall not be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u226	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity of the government to provide information on people with disabilities, I wanted to ask whether there is work on changes in case law. My first point is whether the government plans to distinguish independence from older people in the case-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u228	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for your commitment, for your interest in informing you about the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Let me just remind you that we did not talk about the situation of people with disabilities, i.e. We said, but I did not present, I did not have the opportunity to present information about the situation of people with disabilities, I only had to provide information which the Sejm had to present to the government - that every year it would provide information about the actions taken to implement the rights of persons with disabilities. That's it. That's it. That is why I presented information about what the various ministries did, what the various offices did, but it was of course not complete information, because it could not be so - it would not have been accepted if it had gone beyond the scope which the Sejm had imposed on us. Of course, this information covered two specific years: 2015 and 2016. I do not hide that I was somewhat surprised by listening to Mr Piechota, who spoke about the employment of 5,000. persons in 2017, because there was no information in this material by 2017. But I can answer you: in 2017 the funding system itself in PFRON is increased by 15 000. persons. If you add that not all people benefit from funding, it is not about 5 000. employment has increased, only much more. As regards unemployment, as this was also the question here, unemployment fell to 8% in the third quarter of 2017, from 13% in 2015 and the employment rate increased - in 2015 it was 22,5% , in the third quarter of 2017 it was already 29.6% So these numbers are actually positive. If you looked at the tables in this information, of course you also saw an increase in employment in the state administration between 2015 and 2016. Let me remind you that we are talking about information from two different Sejm and two different governments. If Mr Piechota says that the Platform will have a negative opinion on this and will vote against the adoption of information on the implementation of the government's 2015 tasks, I am somewhat surprised. But I respectfully bowed to the fact that a person as well deserved for the environment of people with disabilities as Mr Piechota misjudged governments in 2015. Interesting, but I agree with you. When it comes to drivers, because it was also a performance, the ministers are the same drivers as they used to drive. My driver in the ministry drives 20 years. If my predecessors didn't teach him not to stand up for people with disabilities... [[No, Minister...]] Mine doesn't stop, mine doesn't stop, Member, certainly. I'm sure it won't. Mr Piechota said that government limousines are standing... [[Because it's the truth!]] Mine doesn't stop, the driver's the same. I do not know what Mr Piechota was talking about, I have never seen a limo in a place for a disabled person, but maybe I have not looked properly. Maybe in 2015 they were standing in these places when we were talking about 2015. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Stop it now because it is a shame.]] Anyway, I am joking a little bit, but I would like you to see a continuation here - we are talking about a resolution that is from 1997, we are talking about the implementation of the Charter over a period of 20 years. Of course, the situation of people with disabilities, as well as the sensitivity of the government during these 20 years have changed. And, of course, I think that as far as the situation and actions for people with disabilities are concerned, there is a positive trend, but I agree that not everything is being achieved. I agree with the fact that there is a lack of a holistic approach, that the situation of people with disabilities is determined not only by the government, but also by the actions of local governments, the activities of society, the situations in families. This is really a whole complex of issues, and I'm sure the information we've presented here is just a piece of information. As far as specific questions are concerned, there were several of them. I'll get through to them now, if you don't mind. Mrs Augustynowska asked for employment. I've already told you a little bit, it's actually increased. From PFRON information - this is the easiest one, because they have this increase in employment that they finance - that was 15 thousand. between 2016 and 2017, so there is a positive trend, but this does not change the fact that we would like these places to be better and better. That is why this state administration is important because these are good jobs, good employment, stable employment, so of course we care about that. I am very pleased that older Members remember that once in education people with disabilities were taught to perform very simple professions, e.g. helper, craftsman, craftsman. At the moment - let me remind you, because we are very proud of this - the popularity of the programs prepared by PFRON is the student and the alumni, the university graduates. We want people with disabilities to actually graduate. I think this is a chance. There is no difference for employers whether they employ a disabled or full-time computer scientist. So there are professions that actually allow people with disabilities to pursue themselves fully professionally. As for the loss of rehabilitation relief - no, according to my information, and we checked it, there is no risk that these people will lose rehabilitation relief. The representative of the Ministry of Finance - even there was such a big article in the Journal of the Legal Gazette - explained that at the moment it is better than before, but of course we will have a meeting of the team with representatives of the disabled and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and we will still discuss this subject. Mrs Czernow talked about PFRON's funds transferred to municipalities and powiats, mainly about powiats and voivodships, because it is really there that money is transferred to remove barriers for people with disabilities. Are they sufficient? I'm sure they're not good enough. Are the counties only supposed to use PFRON's money? Personally, I believe that they are also to benefit from other funds, because people with disabilities are as much inhabitants of areas under these local governments as everyone else, while at the same time building law guarantees that there should be no architectural barriers in buildings that arise. I believe that the sensitivity to the fact that these barriers do not exist is valid in every local government. Mrs Zwierzan asked about the work on the case law system. The first stage was a review of case law, the second is recommendations. At the moment, work is underway on the assumptions of the new system. We want the situation and the determination of independence to be taken into account under this system. We believe that in our society, especially because of the ageing society, this independence is becoming a growing problem. It would be good for those who are independent to benefit from an appropriate support system, hence the determination of independence is becoming more and more important. I wanted to say again that I presented the information. This information could only be what it is, that is, information about the actions that the government has taken. We have gathered information from all the ministries, from all the most important central institutions. In my opinion - of course, it is not possible to draw conclusions and compare here - as I look at this information, but progress is visible and it is worth noting. The government administration, on the other hand, is certainly just one of the actors on the stage dealing with people with disabilities. If we want people with disabilities to enjoy full rights in our society, then the whole society must be sensitive to the needs of people with disabilities and the rights of people with disabilities. On the other hand, it would be good for the government to set a good example that in government institutions people with disabilities have a friendly environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Piechota, Civic Platform, as corrected. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! I would like to say to the Minister, because I may not have said this clearly before, how you started to devastate the system of support for people with disabilities in 2015. Firstly, the Act on benefits for carers of adults with disabilities - it is not a coincidence that in 2015 you removed from the budget the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which can be seen after 2 years. Secondly, the devastation of the civil service with the rejection of support procedures for persons with disabilities. Thirdly, changes in the education system that threatened the education and development of children with disabilities. And if you do not know about the parking of government limousines - I wanted to be balanced - Mr Gowin, Minister Zalewska, Minister of National Education, Deputy Prime Minister of Science and Higher Education and Minister Macierewicz. [[Yes.]] I hope that people with disabilities will provide you with material evidence of your ignorance, because it would seem that you are the first, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you're the protester...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u233	...and from branding such attitudes, and you're ignoring them. Horrible. Disabled, defend yourselves! [[Applause]] [[I'll e-mail you these examples.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u234	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by reminding you of the article. 32 Constitution, which states that all citizens are equal to the law. Everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. No one must be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. Going further: the fruits of economic growth should be shared jointly and severally - so also taking into account the needs of people with disabilities. These often involve large financial resources. Unfortunately, assumptions do not always go hand in hand with reality, as is shown by the Supreme Chamber of Control. The results of the House's audit at the beginning of this year show that as much as half of the public educational establishments teaching pupils with disabilities have not been provided with adequate conditions for support to meet the needs of these pupils and fulfil their powers. Half of the schools and kindergartens audited have not been given due care in the planning and implementation of support, and some institutions have also lacked experience and knowledge in organising and providing funding for work with a disabled student. A key element in the education of pupils and children with disabilities is providing them with access to education in the institution chosen by their parents. Poland does not stand out from most European countries when it comes to promoting inclusive education and the barriers it faces. The results of the audit and the information received from the Ombudsman, the ombudsman, the representative of the Government for Disabled Persons and 16 Curators show that the issue of popularisation and availability of inclusive education has been given great importance in recent years. The school year 2016/2017 increased the participation of pupils with disabilities in the special education group compared to previous years. Nevertheless, this is still not satisfactory. In addition, the NIK's audit of 28 public schools and kindergartens revealed a discrepancy between the right of pupils with disabilities to obtain appropriate support and practice. Half of the institutions surveyed in the 2014/2015/2016/2017 school years were not fully planned, implemented and evaluated in support of children and pupils with disabilities. The procedures for drawing up and updating the supporting documents, as laid down in the provisions of this Regulation, have not been complied with, i.e. individual educational and therapeutic programmes. These programmes were mostly not drawn up in a team, i.e. by teachers and specialists with children. They were created without the required assessment of the child's level of functioning, did not ensure that they contained all the required content and were prepared immediately after the child was admitted to school. The problem in the institutions examined also turned out to be a shift from the general recommendations set out in the decisions on the need for special training to the allocation of an adequate number of support hours, i.e. rehabilitation and psycho-pedagogical assistance activities, and the allocation of the implementation of these activities to qualified persons guaranteeing that all the recommendations resulting from those decisions are met. Nor has the required periodic analysis of the effectiveness of the support provided been carried out in order to assess the functioning of the pupil and to modify, if necessary, the assistance so far provided. Parents of pupils were rarely invited to cooperate in the creation and evaluation of the above mentioned. programs. It has also happened that they have given up all or part of the planned support where the institution has not had the opportunity to organise specialised activities or the proposed timetable has led to an excessive burden on children. Despite the introduction from 1 January 2016 of the obligation to employ an additional person co-organising the education of students with autism, including Asperger's syndrome, this support was not provided in nearly half of the institutions. The lack of help from a person qualified in special education was also one of the reasons why they were not half obliged to do so in the recommended forms of integration of pupils covered by individual education, i.e. inclusion in the implementation of part of the classes with the class team. Not all institutions provide adequate organisational and technical conditions for the implementation of inclusive education. In half of the institutions students with disabilities took classes in classes with excessive numbers, additional classes were not properly organized, and architectural barriers were not removed. Only half of the facilities were provided with infrastructure to provide adequate and sufficient assistance. The primary source of funding for the tasks of local authorities in the field of education is the educational part of the general subsidy. The additional funds charged for special education in the framework of education grants amounted to PLN 5366 million, PLN 5680 million and PLN 6088 million respectively, representing around 14% each year. the entire educational grant. In most schools and kindergartens audited, limited financial and staff resources have become a barrier to the proper implementation of inclusive education. However, 75% institutions have not taken advantage of existing opportunities to provide adequate funding for special education. Between 2015 and 2016, they were not spent in schools and kindergartens under the education part of the general subsidy. In addition, the authorities operating these units have not complied with the obligation - introduced since 2015 - to spend not less than the amount charged in the education subsidy for tasks requiring the use of a specific organisation of science and working methods. During the audit, NIK was not found to have been able to control the spending of these funds by local government units. The Regional Audit Chambers also did not carry out any problems directly related to these issues. Teachers involved in education in controlled institutions saw the benefits for the school community from its implementation, including the possibility of increasing schooling and obtaining additional resources. They pointed to factors which hindered the proper implementation of special education for pupils, such as: from organisational and financial deficiencies. They also expressed concern about the impact on the implementation of the education of pupils with disabilities of the amendment of the regulations introducing from 1 September 2017 the limitation of the possibility of organising classes at school for some of the pupils covered by individual education. Of course, they can enjoy the budget. Compared to 2017, expenditure planned for assistance for disabled people and their carers in the state budget increased by PLN 151 million. However, this is not an amount that completely solves the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u236	In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information contained in prints Nos 855 and 1802. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. The Commission has not completed its work yet, so I am announcing a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 26 hours 17 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have submitted a report on the government draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak (prints 2213 and 2241). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation to them. Wenceslas Felczak, prints 2213 and 2241. The Joint Committees: Culture and Media and Foreign Affairs held their first reading at today's meeting and discussed this draft law. The joint committees ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. In the course of today's work a rather long discussion was held on the general principles and ideas of this bill, and then committees worked in detail on individual records, making numerous amendments and changes, one can say, more technical, but quite laborious and quite numerous. As a result, the vote was held and the joint committees gave a positive opinion and recommended 18 votes to the High Sejm in favour of 6 votes against - the adoption of a government draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. 17 amendments were accepted, 2 amendments were rejected and one of them was again tabled as a minority request. If a minority had adopted this proposal, it would not have been the institute's seat. Warsaw, only the city of Tarnów. As I have already said, the joint committees: the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs are asking for the adoption by the High Sejm of the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u238	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Did the cards make a mistake?]] There's no envoy? [[There it is, Marshal.]] Oh, there it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just put away some of the cards because they were heavy and there were a lot of them. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this government bill, especially since a few months ago a resolution was adopted at the initiative of our club concerning precisely this issue: institutionalization at the state level, intergovernmental Polish-Hungarian cooperation. And in this resolution we asked the Polish Government to prepare such a bill. Of course, cooperation and Polish-Hungarian friendship is a thing It has already been very persistent in the history of our nations and our countries, as well as in the awareness of our societies, but practical, daily Polish-Hungarian cooperation in the assessment of many environments in Poland and Hungary requires that it be institutionalized more at intergovernmental, inter-state level, especially as there are a number of such areas that are worth dealing with more precisely, more actively, in substance every day. They certainly include nurturing Polish-Hungarian traditions, cultural heritage and promoting them on the level of both public life and, even wider, can be said to be international. The main issue is certainly the concrete development of Polish-Hungarian scientific and cultural cooperation, as well as cooperation and mutual exchange of school and student youth in the fields of education, culture and sport. The issue of cooperation in the youth field is certainly very important and very forward-looking. Besides, there's also a scholarship thread in this bill. I think it is also very important to support initiatives and scientific, cultural and educational projects aimed at mutual knowledge of the language, culture, history and politics of both countries, or finally to promote mutual innovative thoughts, Polish-Hungarian cultural, economic and political organisations in order to strengthen the competitiveness of both countries, namely Poland and Hungary. Finally, I think that also an important, important goal, which can be achieved through the establishment and active activity of this institute, can be the financing or financing of Polish-Hungarian projects and Polish-Hungarian cooperation, the organisation of conferences, seminars and debates and the pursuit of information and publishing activities. Such an institute may also serve to analyse economic, social changes in Europe, especially in Central Europe, and in this context it can act to strengthen the security of the countries and peoples of Central and Central Eastern Europe, in this case mainly of Poland and Hungary. It is also important to note that a similar institute has been set up in Hungary, and therefore this desire to cooperate is very strong on both sides. In this situation, the Law and Justice Club certainly fully supports this bill. Perhaps we will continue to report amendments in the course of further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u240	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. I would like to ask you, Member, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Print No 2241 - Joint Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. I must say that this report is still hot. It's like a fresh bun right out of the oven. We have been waiting here for about an hour for legislators to deal with this report. I don't blame the legislators, no, the other way around, I just wanted to show you how this project was working today. Well, the patron of this institute is a very noble figure, because Wacław Felczak is very, very well deserved also for Polish-Hungarian cooperation. Polish-Hungarian cooperation and friendship - nothing to add, nothing to say. I do not know a Pole who would consider that he does not like Hungarians, whether he was not in Hungary or whether he has any reservations at all. So, in one word, the idea would seem as valuable and right as possible, but unfortunately, execution, as to say here, worse than fatal. First of all, there is no reason to strengthen this cooperation with a completely new institution, and yet one of the highest levels - an institution that is directly connected with the President of the Council of Ministers - there he fills all positions - an institution that has two councils: own, as if national, 7-person, and international, an institution that receives PLN 6 million from the state budget each year, while all the tasks of this institute can really be carried out within the existing institutional structures. It can be done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it can be done by the Ministry of Culture, it can be done by the Ministry of Higher Education, it can be done by NGOs. I will also remind you that when the Committee on Culture and the Sejm adopted an appropriate resolution, the foundation was mentioned. We've been thinking about something congruent to the scale of this. Because after all, if I read in the first sentence of the justification that this law provides for the creation of an institute - here its whole name - and that its purpose is to deepen Polish-Hungarian friendship and cooperation, which has developed over the centuries and contributed to the political breakthrough in Europe, I do not know, maybe Hungary introduced us to NATO, maybe Hungary was our ambassador when we were making efforts to join the European Union? Well, we could really use a measure here. I also said that we waited an hour for this report. The joint committees have completed their work around an hour. 16. Notabene is not a good idea either, that when the committees finish, it would be a plenary session right away, but never mind, that's how it turned out. I do not want to believe that this project was prepared by a legal team or the Legal Department in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, who, after all, is to establish this institute and appoint these directors. Well, if so, and there were 17 amendments by Parliament's legislators, and they were not purely technical amendments, and for most of our questions we had the answers we had, they were not necessarily able to satisfy, actually we know nothing about this sister, as said by Minister Dworczyk, Hungarian Institute, we do not know how to finance, we do not know what the task is, how it is to be, and what it is to be, very nice. So if that's the case that a project from the Legal Department of the Prime Minister's Office is subject to this kind of treatment, and that's the problem with it, then I can hardly see the future of the Prime Minister's Office. In this situation, the Civic Platform Club - I have the honour to represent it - is applying for the rejection of the government bill on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation to them. Wenceslas Felczak. I hope the Hungarians will not resent us, because this is not a rejection of cooperation and friendship, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the rejection of a form that is far beyond content. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u242	Thank you, Member. I invite Elizabeth Zielińska, who will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation im. Wenceslas Felczak. There are also many Hungarian friends at Kukiz. I think that we should not look at Polish-Hungarian cooperation at this moment, because such voices appeared in the committee, only through the prism of Orbán, because this is a centuries-old cooperation, these are common fates when we were part of the Austrian Empire, the Habsburg Empire or the satellite country of the USSR, and this cooperation also... [[Sentiments.]] Galician sentiments, because I'm from Małopolska, so I have these sentiments. On the other hand, what worries us about this bill is this idea, this philosophy of governance of the state, that we have some kind of goals, we have some kind of problems, and we try to solve them by calling on this special institution. Indeed, there are many other forms that we could use. Special scholarship funds, grant funds or competitions dedicated to NGOs could be created. These 6 million PLN could be spent even more effectively by such processes than through the creation of a new institution. However, it would be a good idea to include in the Act a requirement for a competition for a director. It was not, it was a pity that it was not thought that this structure was so directly subject to the Prime Minister. But it seems a little strange to me. I hope that we will also cooperate with other southern neighbours who are somewhat neglected, such as the Slovaks or even the Czechs. A positive suggestion was that the Institute's headquarters should be in Tarnów. Law and Justice promised to decentralise offices, and so far we are setting up institutions and basically the vast majority of them operate in Warsaw, so it would be necessary to think eventually whether other parts of the country do not deserve institutions. [[Yes. To Galicia...]] Indeed, there is such sloppyness in the work of this law that we must expect it to improve quickly. This is not something we would expect from the legislative process. Then it is easier to make mistakes, and it is not a very constructive, substantive debate, when we do not really know what the amendments will be, and we are focusing on technical errors, not the substance of the matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u244	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mrs. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club, to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I have already said my opinion in committee, but I would like to draw more attention to the artistic aspect. As far as the objectives to be met by the Institute are concerned, there are two basic ones that talk about the formation of contacts by young generation representatives, particularly in the field of culture. I do not know if you know how, today, under Viktor Orbán's rule, there is a situation of cultural people in Hungary, because since Fidesz Viktor Orbán's rule, this situation of cultural people is getting worse and it needs to be made very clear. The exchange of elites, which has taken place, also in culture, is such a best example. Orbán, by listing these elites, did this to create institutions that would owe him everything. And now I wonder whether this cooperation, cultural exchange, will be cooperation with precisely those institutions that are directly subject to Orbán. I am talking, above all, about the Hungarian Academy of Art Imre Makovec, who was Viktor Orbán's advisor and who actually led institutional culture to become a Baroness culture. And it is the young generation to which you refer in this law that has no general reason for being and has no influence at all on what culture looks like in Hungary. This is generally a denial of the ideas and objectives that you present in your idea for the establishment of an institute. This is a very important thing, that's what I wanted to point out. Another thing that I also mentioned in the committee today: like my previous speakers, I am absolutely in favour of Polish-Hungarian friendship and friendship with all countries at all, but I am surprised that there is no debate at all about the establishment of an institute that should have been established long ago. I am talking about the Polish-Ukrainian Institute, which we really need more than the Polish-Hungarian cooperation institute. In total, apart from the only institute that exists - Polish-German, we have no other institute in this form. Creating by force, only for political reasons, the Polish-Hungarian Institute unfortunately does not look good and rather resembles the practice of top-down building friendship between nations and kind of ideological extension of the alliance of leaders. Therefore, I appeal once again from this speaker, as I said in the committee, that you should lean forward to focus your attention more on Polish-Ukrainian relations, i.e. Ukraine, a country very close to us, a country with which we have not only history, not only geography, but also the presence of more than 1 million Ukrainians now in Poland. It would be really good if we focused on this relationship and not on artificial creation, which will actually serve only - from what we can conclude - the relationship between Kaczyński and Orbán, and we do not want it. What else is there to say? We as Modern also file a motion to reject this law. We have very much respect for Polish-Hungarian relations, but we believe that the establishment of such an institute in which we employ another... We create a new institution, employ another six people appointed top-down by the Prime Minister. It's a stricte. political purpose, I don't know, handing out positions. Think about it again. And I will appeal for the third or fourth time: the Polish-Ukrainian Institute is more necessary than the Polish-Hungarian Institute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u246	Thank you, Member. Unfortunately, at this stage, because this is the second reading, there must be a written request. Therefore, the notification itself is not sufficient. So all that remains is the Platform's request... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Okay, we'll support the Platforms, okay.]] ...and, at the most, as part of it, Modern will be able to take a stand with such a notification. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Yes, we are in agreement.]] That's it. As far as the club of the Polish People's Party is concerned, Mrs Urszula Pasławska made a written statement, as did Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, who made a written speech on behalf of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle. Would any of you like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform. You're welcome. And the Member will be the second. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the hall: You know...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u247	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for government representatives: Why hasn't there been a public consultation? Today, on the committee, the minister said there was such consultation. Then tell me when. [[It wasn't.]] In the explanatory memorandum of the bill there is a laconic statement on p. 17 that, I quote, the consultation was refused because it is necessary to start the work of the institute as soon as possible. Well, someone's obviously missing the truth, knowingly or not. What's the rush in the process? Does this have to do with the launch of the article. 7 against Poland for violating the fundamental values of the EU, i.e. for failing to respect the rule of law, and now looking for supporters in the form of Prime Minister Orbán? How is it that when assessing the impact of the regulation, KPRM has no idea how many people with special achievements for Polish-Hungarian relations and how many entities will be able to benefit from funding and scholarships? All you know is that you spend PLN 6 million on activities, of which 1 million will go to salaries for employees, because in the annotation table for the number of people with specific achievements and potential entities there is information: no data. You are setting up the Polish-Hungarian Institute in a hurry. And when will there be a center of approaching Poles and Ukrainians who would work to bring the two nations together, what did my previous speaker say? I don't need to explain that Ukraine is crucial to our security. Finally, why do you not want to introduce a competition procedure for transparency and transparency of the Institute's activities [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the director of the institute? Tonight, he's got a bachelor's degree, and he can be a principal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u248	Thank you very much. And now Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform, will have time to ask questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With every subsequent resolution and law, the state governing you return to the right past times of the Polish People's Republic. You're already over yourself. We used to have a Polish-Soviet friendship institute. Now you are setting up a Polish-Hungarian institute. And what rank is that? In such a way that he is directly subject to the Prime Minister, who should really have a number of other important responsibilities. I perfectly understand that working with the government of Viktor Orbán for PiS is essential. After all, it was the Hungarian government that assured PiS politicians that it would not agree to impose any sanctions on Poland by the European Commission for failure to comply with the law by the Polish government. This foundation... The Institute will generate PLN 6 million per year, which will be allocated 20% for staffing because the institution will have two councils: national and international. I wanted to ask: Is this another place to fill for law and justice activists? And what is more necessary for us, for Poland the direction of cooperation, i.e. Ukraine? This is where we're supposed to have different agreements, because we're going to... Of course, every friendship is important, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you only want to set up one single institute, the Hungarian one?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u250	Thank you very much. And the last question - Mrs Zofia Czernow, also the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The establishment of the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation raises very serious doubts. Organs are set up, the director of the Institute for 10,000. PLN per month, the International Council of the Institute with numerous expenditures on delegations, the National Council of the Institute. Total expenditure on the operation of this institute amounts to about PLN 6 million from the budget, I stress, plus other expenditure from various other sources of funding. I have a question because the tasks of this institute are very generally formulated. Why cannot a scholarship exchange be carried out on a general basis, as is the case with different countries? I think that no one who is reasonable can justify why this institute is being invoked. Is there such an institute on the Hungarian side? Is he active? When did he arise and what does he do? Because we don't have a clear answer in this case. I think this is the basic information that should be presented at the beginning of the presentation of this project. I would ask, as regards this part concerning the functioning of such an institute in Hungary, for a written reply, because there are a lot of doubts and [[♪ The bell ♪]] uncertain answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u252	Thank you very much. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, Members have asked me a few questions as a representative of the government. As far as I can, I wanted to answer them right now. Mr Marek Krzakła asked why there was no public consultation. I can only repeat what's written in the explanatory note. The project is urgent, the project is simple. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Why is he urgent?]] [[Why urgent?]] I will answer this question in a moment, because Mr Krzykała also asked about the alleged haste of proceding. It is primarily due to the desire to implement, the implementation of the Parliament resolution, which is the basis of this project and, on the other hand, we want to synchronize the work on this project, creating a new institution, with the work that is ongoing in Hungary. Mr Krzakala also asked why we are unable to indicate how many people will be able to benefit from scholarships and other forms of assistance. This is difficult to estimate at this point. Once the Institute starts its operations very quickly, these data will be verified and aid and scholarships will be addressed to those who will deserve this assistance and will be entitled to it. As regards the question of the absence of a competition procedure for the appointment of a director of the Institute, similar rules apply in the case of the Eastern Studies Centre and the Western Institute, which can be treated as institutions which are largely similar to the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. In the case of the OSW and the Institute of Western Heads of these Institutions, the President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint the President of the Council of Ministers. Ms Margaret Chmiel's question about the reason... It is connected in some way with other specific questions that have been asked here in this Chamber. The establishment of the institute is not due to any current political needs, from cooperation between Poland and Hungary within the European Union. I can say yes: I agree with those claims which have been made here that it is impossible to declare or establish friendship by law. It is true, but the Polish-Hungarian friendship is a fact, it has existed for hundreds of years, and in order to confirm this friendship, it is necessary to establish such institutions as the one we are debating today, the Institute of Eastern Studies. A number of questions were also asked about why the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation is present, but there are no proposals concerning a similar institution which would give the legal form of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been in existence and functioning as a government unit of the Eastern Studies Centre for many years, whose tasks also include giving concrete forms of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation. [[Under the Prime Minister's authority?]] Yes, he's in charge of the Prime Minister. She also asked a question about institutional reciprocity on the part of Hungary. I can say that Hungary is at a similar stage: they form an institution which will have similar objectives and tasks as the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation to them. Wenceslas Felczak. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Babinetz also announced that he would take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this way, referring to the questions, to the discussion, as well as to the discussions at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will say that there has indeed been this topic, and therefore there is a minority request for the location of the Institute in Tarnów. But at the committee meeting it was said that this was the subject of an agreement between the Prime Ministers of both governments, between the Polish Government and the Hungarian Government, and it was decided that these offices should be in the capitals of both countries. Besides, if it were not to be Warsaw, it could be Tarnów, but it might as well be Krosno, which also has a very strong tradition of Polish-Hungarian cooperation, so this, I think, would open a fairly long, complicated discussion. There was also a thread of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation, and here the Minister just spoke about the issue of the Eastern Studies Centre, which has been operating for many years. I would also like to remind you that years ago, in 2010, when an institution was created, which was supposed to serve only Polish-Russian cooperation, according to the former applicants, the majority of the government and the government, we called for this also to apply primarily to Polish-Ukrainian cooperation, but also to Polish-Belarusian cooperation, to Balkan countries or to the countries of the Caucasus region. Today, this was also the case at the cultural committee's meeting. It is also worth recalling - sometimes we remind about this at the meetings of the committee, the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin talked about it many times - that within this institution, which exists, the Centre of Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding, the notabene of an institution whose Russian counterpart does not work, this activity is slowly developed in the direction of Polish-Ukrainian relations as well. So I think that action in this direction is being taken and will be further developed. And then there's the third thing. I think, however, that it is not so in the context that this cooperation, the Polish-Hungarian friendship in the 20th century, largely concerned the common attitude towards Bolshevism in 1920, then the help of Hungarians to Poles after the German and Soviet aggression in 1939, the help of Hungarians to Poles fleeing mainly from Germany or finally to help the Hungarians in their anti-communist uprising in 1956 and generally resistance of Poles and Hungarians against communism... I think that this comparison of strengthening institutional Polish-Hungarian cooperation through the creation of this institute is, very gently speaking, against those Hungarians and Poles who gave their lives, fighting against the Communists for the independence of their countries, their homelands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u256	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 6 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people who wish to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the list. In that case, we begin by making a declaration by Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 January this year, Law and Justice rejected all amendments to the opposition to the state budget for 2018. Among these were six of mine, including the one concerning the construction of the Starogard Gdansk ring road. I requested that PLN 6 million be entered into the preparatory work on the construction of this ring road. Previous discussions showed that this important route was planned in the system: design and build. This perimeter is very necessary due to the large traffic through the centre of Starogard Gdański. Currently, there are thousands of cars passing through the national road no. 22 per day. Such a huge movement in the city centre is a threat to the health and life of the people of Starogard, let alone their comfort. It's dangerous, especially for children. A year ago in Starogard, we held a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, which I am a member of. The main objective of this meeting was to discuss the Starogard ring road with local authorities and representatives of urban services. During this discussion, the committee accepted the planned timetable presented by the president of the city. I am therefore surprised that, now, during the vote on securing money in the budget for this timetable, PiS Members did not support this. The construction of this road in the previous term of office was included in the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme. Unfortunately, the current government has moved it from a place of funding to a place that does not guarantee funding until 2023. This investment was postponed to the unknown when it was necessary for the inhabitants of Starogard Gdański. I'm asking you, why? It's enough to go to Starogard just once to see how much this town needs this bypass. Many times, during meetings with me in this city, as well as by telephone or e-mail, people ask me to start construction works at the Starogard Gdański ring road as soon as possible. I hope that the PiS Members, especially those from the Starogard constituency - because it is known that in this term of office the PiS Members have a majority, they will vote what they want - they will change their mind and the necessary investment will begin this year, as I wish all the people of Starogard Gdański and myself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a statement on the construction of the Lower Silesian Sports Centre in Jakuszycka Pole. Polana Jakuszycka is a unique place in the Jizera Mountains, where snow lags from November to May and is the best in Poland and even in Europe, conditions for cross-country skiing. I talked about the phenomenon of this place many times when I spoke about the Piast Pole - the biggest international cross-country skiing event in Europe. This time I wanted to draw the attention of the High House to a very important event concerning the start of the long-awaited investment in Jakuszycka Pole. It is a project of construction of the Lower Silesian Sports Centre in Szklarska Poręba-Jakuszyce, where construction permits have just been obtained. The construction of one of the most modern biathlon and cross-country skiing centers in Poland and Central Europe will begin in the spring. It is in Jakuszycka Pole that the competition of the highest rank will be held. Marshal of Dolnośląskie Voivodship together with local partner, i.e. Together with the Piast Run Association, they decided to modernise the infrastructure in Jakuszycka Pole. The main aim of the project is to create a multi-purpose sports centre allowing the organisation of cross-country skiing and biathlon competitions, while allowing amateurs to spend time actively and use the facility throughout the year. The architectural and spatial documentation meets all the criteria formulated by the International FIS Ski Federation and the International Biathlon Union. Their fulfilment is required for the organisation of the world championship sports competitions. The scope of the project includes cross-country and biathlon routes, football field, athletic treadmill, rollerway and a number of other projects. The main facility will include accommodation, conference and training rooms, as well as a winter sports museum. It will also be a year-round training centre for various disciplines of qualified sport and the preparation of the Special Olympics. The investment cost is almost PLN 100 million. The investment will be financed mainly from the budget of the Marshal's office, with funding from the state budget. Construction works will begin in April this year and will be completed in December 2020. The entire project was designed with full respect for nature, which is the most valuable treasure of Polana Yakuszycka. I wish investors and cross-country skiers the best of luck, which I have the privilege of being. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-06-sejm-58-1.u260	Thank you very much, Member. We still have Mr Jarosław the Noblewoman of Law and Justice, but I do not see you. Therefore, we still have two unanswered messages made by Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Jarosław Gonciusz from Law and Justice. Statement on Safe Internet Day. So here's the end of the section on the Members' statements. I'm ordering a recess at the Sejm's meeting by tomorrow, i.e. By 7 February 2018, at the latest by 7 February 2018 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 37]]
