ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senators, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed to the examination of item thirty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and the two-century of his existence works Instytut Dłuuchomiemych w Warszawie. I would like to warmly welcome the guests at the meeting. Mr Tadeusz Adamec, Director of the Deaf Men's Institute, along with his accompanying teachers. Welcome, Mr. Director. [[Applause]] I welcome the present graduates of the institute with Mr. Karol Stefaniak, insurgent and soldier of the Home Army. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and is included in print No 877, and the committee report In print No 877 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Director! All Dear Visitors! Dear Mrs. Translator, We will and will be witnessing an unusual part of the Senate: we will be lucky to see 'Cause I didn't hear it, but I just saw it. The quality of sign language, among other things, is what it means. This excellence of the language and professionalism of the performers of the sign language translator profession makes the deaf world a hearing world. I am particularly pleased to be the committee's rapporteur for several reasons. The first reason is one that affects all of us. We're talking about the deaf-mute Institute that was created 200 years ago. And we, the Seym and the Senate, are his neighbours, and he is not our neighbour, because the history of this institute is much longer than the history of our buildings, those in which we stand. So we are in this report as younger neighbours. We pass through the square of the Three Crosses very often, we see the building of the institute and we probably realize that there is a world in which we, of course, are very close, and on the other hand it is not exactly known to us. We, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, thanks to the President, Mr Kazimierz Wind, organized a special conference in June, which was at least for us, I think, after our shared before it, at its time and after it, a very big experience. A survival that, as you can say, in 3 dimensions you should see. On the one hand, What will be close to Mr Konstantin Radziwill as a doctor? It was a recognition of a world in which an amazing technological turn takes place, an amazing progress. This progress, in this good sense of the word, causes that the world of the deaf in 2018 fortunately does not resemble this world of the deaf from 200 years ago, when Fr. Jakub Falkowski founded an institute. This is a whole different world. But even though this conference was held in silence, it was by means of sign language that it was possible to be present there in a perfect way - deaf with hearing, hearing with the deaf. Also papers, especially those on technological progress in implants, about the possibility of introducing a child who is already deaf, still developing physically, in the bloodstream of education, in the process of training people who are fully... Well, it's also a phenomenon that neither Fr. Jakub Falkowski and his first disciples, nor the next generations, until practically this generation, which today is born and educated, having this defect, the disability that could cause it to be a closed, distant world. During this conference it turned out And that was the second phenomenon. That, of course, it is not remote. It is exactly the same when it comes to the skills of the deaf, their understanding of the present, their understanding of the world. The professors, the scientists, came to us, those who are definitely in this modern world as fully full-fledged citizens and full-blooded members of public space. And this third dimension, which is also present here and visible thanks to the figure of the deaf person who actively participated in the Warsaw Uprising. The anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising is coming up. If we want to find this very close relationship between Poles, which exists on the level of mutual love for the common homeland, the relationship between the deaf world and the hearing world, then his testimony is this hero present here today, who participated in the Warsaw Uprising and who shows, of course, that patriotism is not given only to chosen environments, chosen people. Love for the country is a gift from the Lord God to all, both hearing and deaf. And from this gift the deaf also, like us, were fully enjoying, as you will see when you hear the words of this draft resolution. Therefore, I am, as I say, the nicer that I will be able to read the project that was created on the canvas. dialogue with the deaf, deaf. This world of the deaf is not entirely known to us and without the help of the Institute's director, Mr. Tadeusz Adamec, this text would not have been written, because, as it turns out, none of us Even though we are in a variety of professions, he would not fully understand this world without the contribution of the institute that you will find here. Therefore, the text of the draft resolution following the amendments adopted by the Legislative Commission on 10 July 2018 reads as follows. On the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and the two-century existence of his work, the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw. On 2 September 2018 we will celebrate the 170th anniversary of the death of Fr. Jakub Falkowski (1775/1848), founder and first rector of the Institute of Deafness, builder of the building at the square of the Three Crosses in Warsaw, while at the same time the builder and the first parish priest of the nearby church at St. Aleksandra (in the undergrounds of this temple is the tomb of Fr. Falkowski). On 23 October 2017, the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw was passed. The first and oldest Polish school for deaf children and young people. It's Fr. Jakub Falkowski brought the deaf out of existence, developed a program of their teaching and organized a full education. He spent his whole life sacrificing those who were doomed by fate to a hard, often hopeless life. He helped those who, in those days, were not only for society, but also for their own families. Without the rest devoted to the idea of teaching the deaf, he continued to strive for the development of the Institute, even spending his own income for this purpose, living very modestly. If he lacked funds for children, he always blamed himself in letters to the authorities. Among other things, he wrote: "One of the reasons for the bad condition of the establishment is to accept the poor's disciples over the ability to feed and maintain them. As the rector of the Institute, he received children regardless of their origin, nationality and religion, and so with the Polish children there they learned Jewish children, along with Catholics. The Orthodox, along with the wealthy The poor. All that Fr. Jakub Falkowski in the first half of the 19th century is still valid today. The creator of the Institute of Deafness has a direct and indirect participation in history and in subsequent works of this institution, among others. in the formation and development of sign language. He was the first to hire deaf teachers, including the famous painter miniaturist Felix Pęczarski, who has often replaced you in lectures. The first rector of the Institute was also the author of the first publications on the teaching of deaf people, about the uprising and improvement of methods of teaching deaf children. Thanks to the work left by Fr. Falkowski's successive generations of teachers raised their subjects in the spirit of patriotism. In the second half of the 19th century, the students of the Institute resisted russification. In particular, in 1905, they took part in a school strike, effectively opposed the Institute's looting by the Russians withdrawing in 1915, as well as German attempts to take over the facility and turn into barracks during World War I. During World War II, deaf people were hiding deaf Jewish children, and many of his pupils fought as AK soldiers in the Warsaw Uprising. During the Stalinist and later years they persisted in resistance to attempts to liquidate the Institute on the square of the Three Crosses. In 1875, in the century of the birth of Fr. Jakub Falkowski, deaf people gathered money and performed under the direction of the teacher, the famous sculptor Faustina Juliusz Cengler, a monument to the bust of the Rector. This monument was destroyed during the Warsaw Uprising, but in 2002, on the 185th anniversary of the Institute, a new monument was unveiled, the creators of which are two sculptors: the deaf Mieczysław Syposz and his friend Ryszard Stryjecki. Today, this monument stands at the square of the Three Crosses and is visited by deaf people coming from all over the world. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the role of Fr. Jakub Falkowski and subsequent generations of teachers of the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw at the Square of the Three Crosses, as well as remembering the patriotic attitudes of his pupils, this resolution expresses gratitude to the tutors and students of the Institute, and urges all concerned about the state of education in Poland to remember the Deaf people affected by severe limitations and at the same time being full citizens of free and independent Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you so much for listening, for focusing, because the subject is important. I hope that we are all inclined to vote unanimously on this resolution The votes, of course, are positive. I'm sure we'll do a good deed, and good deed brings the Senate to the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. I would remind you that Senator Jan Żaryn is also the representative of the applicant. Would any of you like to ask the applicant a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! As Senator Żaryn said, this resolution is close to us, among others. because we very often pass the institute on the square of the Three Crosses, we pass the place where this monument stands, but also there are display cases from which we can learn about the history and today of the Institute. I would like to begin by thanking Senator Żaryna for this initiative, during which a conference organised by the Senate's Scientific, Education and Sports Committee took place. The resolution presented today is the result of this conference, but not the only fruit. It was a very interesting conference, with speakers, representatives of deaf-mute environments, including scientists, doctors, therapists, people supporting this environment, headed by the Director of the Deaf-mute Institute, Mr Tadeusz Adamcek, who is also among us today. Thank you so much for this conference. It was an opportunity to meet many wonderful people, to learn the history of the movement of deaf people, their great successes, many outstanding people. They are also among us today, fighting for Poland, for its independence, developing culture and economy. But I have to say that it was also an opportunity to get to know just a little bit, to understand the whole internal world of this environment, which is extremely interesting, and it has been told here. It was said that, depending on when a person becomes deaf, whether he is born, whether he becomes one in his youth or as an adult, there are completely different psychological and social phenomena involved. But by the way, we could also see once again how important it is to listen to another person, to what he has to tell us. I've also seen a lot of people sacrifice themselves to others. Of course, the Senate of the Brightest Republic of Poland strives to embrace in the social dimension many environments, but also this world of values, which is to be an inspiration for them and for us. There is no doubt that today the great task of education, family, society is to build sensitivity to beauty, for good, for neighbor, for values. These are extremely important matters. The senator, reading the resolution, said, among others. such a sentence: they were the last even for the nearest ones, this in the resolution is written in detail For your own families. During the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the words were added there at that time, so that there was no doubt that this was the case at that time. Yes, they were the last, but there was Fr. Falkowski and that's changed. Not only in the dimension of Warsaw, Poland, but also in the world it was a forerunner. He saw these people and helped them, and his help, which is extremely important, was, you can say, a systemic, large format, pioneering. He laid the foundation for a wonderful work. This, of course, is a great encouragement and great inspiration for us. I wish all guests and ladies and gentlemen a lot of good people around. Let this resolution be one of the important inspirations in our action. God bless you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u5	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and on the two-century existence of his work, the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 170th anniversary of the death of Father Jakub Falkowski and on the two-century of the existence of his work, the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw. I ask Director Tadeusz Adamec to approach the bureau. I'll give you the content of the resolution already signed. You're welcome. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Director of the Institute of Deafness in Warsaw Tadeusz Adamiec: Thank you very, very much. Thank you very much again.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I'm about to announce a minute's technical break. Thank you, gentlemen, and I would like to invite you to a place where, with the senator, the other senator and the guests, we will meet with you. Thank you very much. One minute break. Break to 9.25. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 24 to 9 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the agricultural tax law, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Law on forestry tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 919, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 919 A and 919 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait a minute. Let the guests out.]] Go on, read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the position which the committee adopted at its meeting on 23 July 2018, before the amendment of the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the Forest tax law. As far as this bill is concerned, she was prosecuted in the Seym as a government submission. It was adopted unanimously: 409 Members voted in favour, no one opposed, two Members abstained. It is a law which aims solely at clarifying the rules on taxation of land used by economic operators in connection with the establishment of infrastructure for the transmission or distribution of liquids, steam, gas or electricity or telecommunications infrastructure. The lack of clear rules on land taxation often led to differences in its application. This was mainly due to the fact that the tax authorities, the governor, the mayor, were charging the tax... In many cases, the areas that were occupied by these transmission lines were taken into account for settlement as areas which were subject to tax on economic terrain. This has often led to judicial decisions, in which a line has begun to form, that the taxation of these land has begun to be regarded as a business-related taxation. It is precisely the fact that this line of case-law is presented as an indication for the classification of these land as industrial is the principal reason for these changes. This amendment is the only amendment made in this Act and it makes clear that if there is only transfer and there is no business activity, the land should be treated as land normally taxed as agricultural land, not economic land. But if there was an economic activity anywhere, then the classification of those land related to taxation changes. This law clearly clarifies this issue and that is the essence of this amendment. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, after a brief presentation by the Minister, there was no discussion, the bill was adopted unanimously, there were no objections, there were no comments. This is also the position of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration that I am presenting to the High Senate and ask that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to report on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Tax and the Act on Local Taxes and Charges and the Law on Forest Tax. Ladies and gentlemen, after a rather detailed discussion of the submission just a moment ago, I have nothing but to point out that, in the same way as it was at the meeting of the local government committee, at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, this law It did not raise any controversy in the Sejm, as the rapporteur of the local government committee pointed out. It was also adopted unanimously here. There were five votes in favour. As my previous speaker pointed out, the Act basically regulates the legal status of how local taxes and charges are charged and harmonises the practice of tax authorities in the field of the installation of steam and gas transmission infrastructure, electricity and telecommunications installations. The Ministry representative present at the committee meeting pointed out that the charging of such taxes was incidental. However, in order to do so, to clean and clarify our law, it is necessary to adopt this law. During the committee's meeting, a proposal for a law was made without amendment. As I pointed out earlier, it was unanimously accepted by the members of the committee. I make such a request on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Minister Tadeusz Skobel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. Minister, come in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the law on amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forestry tax. The law regulates the principle of taxation of land through which linear infrastructure is carried out for the transmission or distribution of liquids, steam, gases or electricity and telecommunications infrastructure. The Act provides that the establishment of such infrastructure on non-linear land will not affect the amount of the land tax paid by the owner of the property. The government's amendment will eliminate the legal gap in the existing tax legislation. These rules did not directly regulate the way of taxation of land under linear infrastructure. There were therefore different opinions and interpretations in this regard. This resulted in different tax rates being charged in neighbouring municipalities for the land on which the infrastructure was located. This problem was particularly evident in the case of land on the Board of State Forests on which electricity lines are located. In recent years, the interpretation has started to spread that forest land situated under electricity lines should be taxed at the highest rate of real estate tax charged on land occupied for economic activity rather than, as previously, forest tax. The change in the classification of these land for tax purposes led to a significant increase in the burden on the State Forests. The forest tax rate is around 0,5 gr per 1 m2 and the real estate tax for the land on which the economic activity is carried out is 91 gr per 1 m2. As a result of the change in the classification of land, the tax due increases significantly. On the whole of the country, in most cases the position of energy lines on third-party land is still treated as tax neutral. However, there was a risk that the change in land classification would extend in the future to other forest land and agricultural land. In view of the arguments accepted by the tax authorities, the change in the classification of land could also start in the case of land through which other linear infrastructure is carried out, e.g. Gas, heating or telecommunications. In cases where such a change in the classification of land has already occurred, the specificity of the use of the land by the owners of linear equipment has not been taken into account. Liners shall use such land only to a limited extent corresponding to the transmission service. The owner of the property can normally continue to use the land for basic purposes. On land under electricity lines in forests can still be carried out e.g. forest activities in the form of, for example, tree plantations and agricultural crops may be carried out on agricultural land. Therefore, this land should not be taxed in the same way as the land occupied by a typical cubic undertaking. At the same time, the purpose of undertakings with linear infrastructure listed in the Act on the provision of services of general interest was not taken into account in the change of classification. The introduction of clear rules for the taxation of land through which linear infrastructure runs is also very important for taxable persons on the ground. As a result of this amendment, land owners or users will not be obliged to pay a higher tax solely because their land is driven by linear infrastructure facilities. The calculation of the highest rate of tax applicable to land occupied for economic activity would in particular be detrimental to owners of forest, agricultural or non-use land. It would lead to a situation where an owner who does not carry out his own business or benefits from the establishment of a linear infrastructure on the ground would be obliged to pay a multiple higher tax on land. Of course, any rationally acting owner of a property in a situation where he will be obliged to pay a higher tax solely because of the linear infrastructure through its land will seek to recover the amount of that tax from the owner of a linear infrastructure. This will certainly result in an increase in the prices of services provided by companies using this infrastructure. The Ministry of Energy estimates that about PLN 7 per month for the average household could increase the electricity distribution charge if all land under electricity lines were taxed at the highest rate of real estate tax. Gas, water, waste water and telecommunications services could also increase. The increase in ground taxes would certainly have a positive impact on the budgets of municipalities where there are a large number of energy networks or other linear infrastructure. However, this would be at the expense of all electricity consumers and other media, including those of the less prosperous municipalities from the eastern wall or less urbanized municipalities. This would increase the diversity of the development of the different regions of the country depending on the density of infrastructure. The government's revision of the tax rules is therefore important both for companies using linear infrastructure for their activities, as well as for taxable persons on the ground, as well as for consumers of electricity and other media. With all this in mind, I ask for the support of the government's bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I don't understand this problem very much. Because if the infrastructure, e.g. the energy line runs through the agricultural land owned by the farmer, it is clear that he will not pay the property tax due to the passage through the land of that line. It is also clear about other networks that run through the ground. But maybe we're talking about two things. Because either he owns the land... because you know who owns the infrastructure. But if there is, for example. separate belt and in separate belt runs a pipeline, let's say, heat plant, etc., it is known that this is the ground separated from this device and then it should normally be taxed on property tax. And I think it is. We also have transmission service. If there is service, it is known that there is no tax. I'd like to know if it was really a big problem. You were talking about forests, so it's probably about taxing mostly energy lines that run through forests. Because I haven't met with this problem, and it's only from you that I've heard that there's been this kind of approach... [[Good. Thank you very much...]] ...to tax such land.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u13	Thank you, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, unfortunately, the situation is developing so rapidly over the last few years... Last year, as far as forest land is concerned, such a position that from land under energy lines is to be paid forest tax, it was 5% , and this year It's already 40%. It's up to the courts. These judgments of the courts are spreading pretty fast. Other users have also noticed, also municipalities have noted that if instead of forest tax, a business tax is paid, then on a similar basis it may be introduced... such a tax may be incurred for the operation of a line in areas related to agricultural activity. And from here, to avoid the situation... Because, as I said, this situation, at least with regard to forests, changed dynamically in one year 5% , in the second 40% We decided that these rules should be normalized in such a way that this situation does not take place so that the cases do not go to courts or go on for months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u15	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 894, and the report of the Commission In print No 894 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the law on the change and organisation of the market in milk and milk products adopted by the Sejm on 5 July this year. Following an analysis, the Commission adopted a resolution on the submission of a proposal to the High House for the adoption of a law without amendment. As far as the bill is concerned, it's a short change. It merely transfers competences between the National Agricultural Support Centre and the restructuring agency. I don't think we need much information here. This is an internal, I would say, activity between two institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Rafał Romanowski is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Does anyone want to ask them? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the System of Identification and Registration of Animals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 913, and the committee report In print No 913 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the Law amending the Animal Identification and Registration System of Senators No. 913. The amendment of the Law of 2 April 2004 on the system for the identification and registration of animals aims to increase flexibility in the selection of pig-holders' methods for marking pigs, simplifying and reducing the administrative burden for the execution of animal inventories and as regards the information that animal-holders are required to provide to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The expected effect of the proposed amendments is to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of livestock owners under this law. In addition, the project aims to reduce the burden on owners of equidae whose identification documents have been issued by an entity operating in a territory other than the Republic of a Member State. This is a change introduced at the request of the Polish Horse Breeders Association. There will be no obligation for a translator to submit a certified part of the identification document. This will reduce the cost of registration of this document. In addition, the current rules require pig holders to notify the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture of an increase or decrease in the number of the herd and slaughter of pigs within 24 hours of the occurrence. However, due to difficulties in meeting this 24-hour deadline, it is proposed to extend it from 24 hours to 2 days. At the same time, this deadline will not apply to the case of the birth of pigs. The possibility of marking them up to 30 days from the date of birth shall be left. The proposed changes will also increase flexibility in the methods used for marking pigs, which is an earring or tattoo, and in the case of earring any bivalve molluscs As well as a clarification and unambiguous indication of the procedure in the event of the loss or damage of the earring in respect of different animal species. The obligation for pig holders to notify the Agency's head of office of additional marking of the pig is repealed. This is another good step to reduce administrative burdens. At the request of the cattle-breeding organisations, the obligation to keep an inventory of the animals in the herd and to transfer them to the agency was abolished. This meant duplication of information already collected for ovine and caprine animals. The obligation to draw up their lists shall be left, but the obligation to transfer the result to the Agency shall be abolished in connection with the possession of a centralised database. Another simplification is the exclusion of trade fair operators from the obligation to keep pig registration books, as this also implies duplication of this information. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee requests that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I have information that Minister Simon Giżyński is with us. Is that so? You're the minister... I'm sorry. Good morning, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Simon Giżyński: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? [[I want to...]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the talks with a farmer who came to me on Senator's duty showed that the system for registration of equidae is diametrically different from the systems. for pigs, for cows, for sheep, and that there are high costs. Is that true? Have you noticed this problem and has it already been resolved? Did you have such signals?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u21	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u22	This is, Mr Senator, the first signal which, at least, reaches me, because among other very important issues related to this law, important, but noticed in time, which were accepted with understanding by farmers themselves, as well as at all levels of the Parliament and the Senate discussion. The best proof of this was the resolution and the motion of the Senate committee... No other threads, as alarmingly up-to-date, as important and as those which correspond to the spirit of this law or the amendment, which defines the necessary tendency to eliminate unnecessary things from this law and to incorporate into its legislative process what is possible, i.e. such maximum flexibility... And this law has been constructed, of course, I am talking about the amendment, based solely on observations, demands. It was and is a task amendment which results from such a conscientiously implemented situational review concerning the functioning of that law in relation to equidae, but not only to all registered animals. And I am convinced, of course, that the senator will receive this in writing as a special and detailed case, that with such a judgment, which your interlocutor presented in the interview in your senator's office, it seems very unlikely... But, of course, this case is whether this Senator's proposal will be examined and you will receive a written reply. [[If possible, with particular attention being paid to how many equidae are registered and how many pigs, cattle, etc.]] Thank you kindly. As you wish in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u23	Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 918 and the Commission's reports In prints No 918 A and No 918 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u24	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, a report on the contested law on the amendment of the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community - this is print No. 918 A, as the marshal rightly mentioned. The Act amending the Local Development Act with the participation of the local community aims to eliminate the interpretative doubts that have often arisen as a result of its application, in particular as regards the evaluation of operations by the local action group during the process of selecting these operations. The Act introduces 4 essential additions which, in my view, are most desirable from the point of view of the beneficiaries. Firstly, this complements the scope of information that must be included in the call for proposals for support of an additional element in the form of the conditions for selecting the operation and the conditions for providing support. Secondly, it is possible to modify the proposals to the extent resulting from the setting by the local action group of the amount of support lower than that contained in the proposal. Thirdly, this is an opportunity to correct the proposal in order to remedy irregularities which do not lead to a substantial modification of the application, to extend the deadline for remedying deficiencies or obvious errors and other irregularities in the application for support. That's the answer. also for voices appearing in the beneficiary environment. Finally, fourthly, it is a 60-day deadline for local groups to act in the process of selecting operations. The Act is to enter into force within 14 days of its announcement. I would like to say that during the presentation made by the Minister, one question was raised by me. The answer given by the Minister was extremely clear, legible and was written for the purposes of the questioner, i.e. mine. In general, the amendments introduced are amendments that concern the environment of potential recipients, beneficiaries of these measures, and meet their expectations. Therefore, the committee unanimously adopted the proposed amendment at its meeting on 23 July 2018. I ask the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to give a brief information on behalf of the committee. The report of the meeting of our committee, which, after considering the law, accepted the proposal to adopt it without amendment. I think the High House will also accept it without amendments. The explanation has already been made by my previous speaker, I think it's enough. If there are any questions, we'd be happy to answer them. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Rafał Romanowski is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out in respect of certain agricultural markets. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 929 and the report of the committee In print No 929 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u28	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the review of the Law amending certain laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out in the field of certain agricultural markets The Act provides for amendments to several laws aimed at strengthening controls as regards identification and information to be provided to consumers on the labelling of agri-food products, including fresh fruit and vegetables, and eliminating unfair actions. It concerns changes as expected by farmers as well as consumers. The consumer should be aware of the origin of the product and should not be misled by unfair practices such as the increasing repacking of fruit and vegetables imported from abroad and selling them as Polish. The proposed solutions will improve the control of the commercial quality of all fruit and vegetables, allow for rapid and more effective checks on these articles, also due to their impermanence. Of course, these checks will now be carried out without notice. The proposed changes concerning fruit and vegetables covered by EU rules aim, inter alia, at: replacement of the fine with higher fines for non-compliance with the commercial quality requirements of fruit and vegetables, including non-information on the origin of the product. The proposed penalties applicable to non-compliant fruit and vegetables have been harmonised with those applicable to other agri-food products. It is also proposed to introduce additional penalties for not presenting the accompanying documents of a given batch of fruit or vegetables referred to in European Union legislation, or not to include the information required in those documents or to provide false information and for the re-marketing of fruit and vegetables for which a decision on non-compliance of vegetables and fruit with Union requirements has been issued. There was a long, turbulent discussion in the Seym. And at the end of the day, I will only mention two questions that Mrs Włocławek, from my district, asked about the amendment of this law. First of all, she asked whether the adoption of the law would allow for the completion of the procedure for the re-packing of food by supermarkets, and secondly whether the entry into force of this law would finally result in the unfair approach of traders misleading consumers and causing losses to Polish food producers. I answer that after this amendment, this business will end. Please, Mrs. Marshal, on behalf of the committee for the adoption of the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you... [[I'd like to...]] Senator Augustyn has a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u30	Mr. Senator, at one of the county council sessions, there was a case of checks carried out at a large trader's grocery store. It turned out that the inspection controlled, as every year, from this huge production only a few samples for antibiotic content in food. Will this law increase the safety of such foods? The question is all the more important because these samples were taken, as reported, during the previously announced inspection. This is what it looks like, in fact, according to this year's report at the Pile District Council. [[I think... may I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u31	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u32	Mr. Senator, I think this is gonna change, the controls are gonna be more detailed, accurate, so as not to put us at risk. But that's exactly what we didn't talk about at the committee meeting. I think the Minister will take that into account. I believe that these provisions, which the amendment of this law introduces, will certainly make these misdeeds, the criminal acts that have taken place so far, inaccurate, as the senator here indicates, sampling That all of this is not going to happen, because that's what we're going to do by updating this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u33	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Rafał Romanowski is with us. Minister, do you wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Is anybody... Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. In a minute, Mr. Senator. I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand. You're welcome, Senator. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have the same question, of course. Will this law improve the effectiveness of food control? I am also extending this question to this information, which once again arrives, for example. from the Czech Republic, where the quality of Polish food, in particular meat products, is questioned, accusing too much of antibiotics. Of course we're denying it, but I'm putting it on my information from this session. Well, since so few samples are taken in a production situation of thousands of tons of food per year, it can be said that this is a mark-up of control, not an ongoing control of what comes out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u35	Good. Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! There are a few basic concepts that need to be explained here, because unfortunately, the senator is inclined to confuse these concepts. If we are talking about food safety, it should be noted first that Polish food is 100% Safe. We export this food to more than 70 countries around the world, eat Polish food on Polish tables, so we give a 100% guarantee that Polish food is safe. The senator mentioned the so-called. antibiotics. Well, it's been raised a lot. This law does not regulate this, this law concerns quality, the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection or the Commercial Inspection. As for the things the senator mentioned, this is a veterinary matter. Well, you should keep that in mind, you should distinguish this system from the veterinary system. The animal food safety examination shall be carried out by the Chief Veterinary Inspector, by the provincial inspectors, by the district veterinary inspectors. Of course, those trials that are being taken are so-called. sample samples, but they certainly reflect reality. Mr. Senator, I assure you that such sampling is carried out on an appropriate batch, which is clearly marked. We have a food identification system that is consistent with the European Union system, and that is not subject to any discussion. Each batch of food has its mark, each batch is identifiable. If a sampling sample has been taken from a given batch for an antibiotic test, such a test ensures that this batch of food is free from such an antibiotic. This system is not an invented system, which would be implemented exclusively within the Republic of Poland. It is a food identification and research system consistent with the European system. It is based, among others. on EFSA, the European Food Safety Council. So these systems are very coherent, traceable and reliable for the whole world. They're not being questioned in any forum. The senator mentioned the Czech example. Well, this is an example that might be suitable for such a particular discussion. Czechs, perhaps sensing a threat due to the high standards of Polish food and its very good quality, seeing very strong competition in their local market, are looking for some reason to depreciate food from our country, but I would like to assure you that the food research system in our country is being implemented very effectively. It simply ensures credibility not only on the domestic market but also on world markets.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński would like to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. A few months ago, the public was appalled by the news that the new countries of Europe, i.e. The European Union is being brought here... to make it clear: here we are talking about cosmetics of a completely different quality, about different standards than e.g. in Germany or in the countries of the old Union. So we were like second-class consumers. Did you receive such signals when it comes to the fruit and vegetables market? Are quality standards the same for all countries as for the European Union? I'm talking about the food that's being imported. And second question. Do you check, monitor, in any way, vegetables and fruits in terms of GMOs? Aren't these fruits e.g. Somehow... Well, aren't they from genetically modified plants?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, the food quality system is identical throughout the European Union. This applies not only to fruit and vegetables but also to widely understood food products. This law has some very important elements. Following these signals, which appeared in previous years or this year, it is intended to give the Chief Inspector of Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles or Commercial Inspections, which is subject to the OMC, the possibility of testing, entering a particular economic entity not within the prescribed time limit, but on the basis of authorisation. The inspector shall have a timely authorisation and may enter the establishment during the validity of this authorisation and, if he presents this authorisation, may carry out such checks, i.e., first, quality, second, the lack of the possibility of falsifying food, such as the famous repacking that appeared. I do not hide that this is the scope of these inspections. But the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted the Plant Protection Act last week, which is currently on the President's desk. If this law is signed, then also in this respect, i.e. in the case of the famous potatoes, these messages which appear recently, identical control, on the so-called. ID... But also to increase sanctions, administrative sanctions, so that they are simply severe. Because what is a sanction of PLN 200 for an entity that has e.g. 100 or a thousand distribution points in the area, and when it means a batch of potatoes country of origin, it mentions e.g. Five more countries? It's just not in any way painful. That is why we need to deregulate certain issues. I do not hide that in this respect, too, the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection will be armed with identical tools. Of course, we are interfering here with the right of entrepreneurs, which was established in 2018, but the government has come to the conclusion that these powers must be given to these institutions, so that this food research is really at the highest level and very effective, so that the consumer can be sure that if something is marked as a Polish product, it is really a Polish product. When it comes to GMOs... Mr Senator, in Poland or in the European Union there is no possibility to use GMOs in food products. Of course, we study this range all the time. I'm not hiding that we're still running a program on native proteins just to completely free ourselves from GMOs. Also, as far as feed products are concerned... There is no way to use GMO products for food products.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u41	Thank you. Are there any questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to ask the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to thank you for the quickly prepared change, as most farmers protested, among others. here, showing that their products that they sell are falsified by being repacked by other entities that want to make money on it. And such a loud system, in connection with which it was raised, that these are products of bad quality, but it turned out that these poor quality products are not Polish, but imported from the outside... And I am glad that there is such a rapid change, because farmers, as I have already said, are very demanding these changes, so that their products, Polish, marked as Polish products, are clearly described and unfalse to the consumer. We hope that thanks to this the Polish entities who hope that their raw materials will be concentrated... There will be a chance that the Polish consumer who wants to buy Polish products will choose the Polish product. And that they will cease to be forgeries. The second problem, which is often raised by farmers, is the issue of the dishonesty of operators, whether traders or processors, who hide information and do not want to fully write what products they contain. That's why I think quality inspection, both of these inspections, and soon, I hope... Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski has already announced that he will want to create one quality inspection so that these checks are comprehensive. I hope that the government will be able to implement this law as soon as possible, which I think farmers and processors expect, so that these controls are as little as possible, but that they are comprehensive. And a very important element is that it has ceased to be such an uncircumcised, that everyone is preparing for control that he has time to prepare for control. And now immediate control will have a chance. And those entities that have so far been unfairly using... they are now complying with this law, in which there are high criminal penalties for such crimes. I hope that they will not be committed now. And also a request that we, as consumers, really pay attention... We encourage you to buy very high quality products that Polish farmers, Polish agri-food companies, supply to the market. Let us encourage you to buy our homemade high quality production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u43	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the social security system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 895 and the committee report In print No 895 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report from our committee's meeting on the revision of the Social Security Act. The amendment of the Social Insurance Act concerns the Demographic Reserve Fund. As a result, the Demographic Reserve Fund was created to raise financial resources for pension insurance, which could be used if, for demographic reasons, pension funds were not sufficient for the implementation of expenditure covered by pensions payments. The Act on the insurance system in Chapter 6 regulates the rules for the creation and operation of the Demographic Reserve Fund, specifying its power, the use of funds, and the rigors for their placement. The current amendment modifies the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Act by: eliminating the registration separation of assets arising from the transfer of assets as defined in Article. 58; repealing the provisions on the abovementioned assets which provide that the funds and revenues from them may be used exclusively for the provision of a pension fund and for the introduction of a standard whereby the funds deriving from the redemption of assets and revenue derived from them increase the assets of the Demographic Reserve Fund and will be classified and managed under the same conditions as for other assets of the fund. In addition, there is a repeal of the restriction on the placement of funds from the assets referred to in Article. 58. During the discussion at the committee meeting, the senators were particularly interested in the security of the funds allocated to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Senator Augustine asked what is the amount of money that can be invested. In response, the Minister and the people accompanying her came to the conclusion that the amount of PLN 12 billion was involved. Senator Duda, chairman of the committee, expressed concern that the funds would not be invested in too risky projects. The point was not to lose. The Ministry has ensured that the only way to invest these funds is to invest in safe funds covered by State guarantees, inter alia. issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. There was also a declaration that these measures would not be placed in the so-called. It's aggressive. Senator Elephant asked about the date of entry into force of the Act, because there are 2 terms: some regulations have traditional vacatio legis, while some regulations enter into force on 23 October. As explained, the deadline for 23 October is related to the maturity of the fund bonds. The latter term is tidying up. It has also been noted that the Social Insurance Fund is generally doing a bit better. In view of the lower unemployment rate and the increased impact of contributions It is now possible to finance and change the model of the Demographic Reserve Fund. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this novel without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u45	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? No, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask... Mr. Senator Czerwinski? There you go. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a simple question: do these changes, the loosening of certain rigors, arise from the needs of the Demographic Reserve Fund or external needs, in other words, from the need to mobilise the funds of this fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, they are not based on these conditions or on these conditions. These funds may have been transferred to the Social Insurance Fund on the basis of existing rules, but due to the stable situation of the Social Insurance Fund, due to higher revenues, there is no need to transfer them to the Social Insurance Fund. That is why we propose to transfer these funds to the Demographic Reserve Fund, because we can locate them there and therefore multiply them, with a view to the time when the situation will occur, I would say negative. And that's the only reason it's happening. To secure the funds for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u48	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 892, and the report of the Commission In print No 892 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on 5 July this year. a law amending the law on combating unfair competition and certain other laws. At its meeting on 24 July 2018, information was submitted and the main objective of this law was to transpose Directive No 943 of the European Parliament and of the Council into Polish legislation. This harmonisation is minimal in nature, which means that the level of protection of information which is a secret to an undertaking in the legal systems of the Member States may not be lower than that laid down in the Directive. Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on combating unfair competition in the new wording provides that the act of unfair competition in relation to someone else's confidential information is to disclose, exploit or acquire it. The legislator has decided not to regulate restricting the protection of the secret of an undertaking, i.e. the limitation of the period of protection of the secret of an undertaking to a period of 3 years from the date of termination of the employment relationship, as referred to in the current Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Act introduces a new definition of company secrecy as the Directive raises the level of requirements necessary to obtain such protection for an entrepreneur who seeks to protect the company's information. The provisions also specify when disclosure, use or acquisition of a company's secrecy constitutes an act of unfair competition. The Act also introduces a separate limitation period for a claim for damages resulting from an act of unfair competition in breach of the secret of an undertaking constituting a crime or an offence It's an art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act on Combating Unfair Competition. Posted in Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 examines actions taken by persons who use or disclose information which is a secret to an undertaking that they have been familiarised with in connection with judicial proceedings relating to unfair competition. Art. 755 of the Civil Procedure Code is intended to implement Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 a directive which will enable the court to order the defendant to lodge a sum of money to safeguard the claims of the entitled party arising from the further breach of the company's secrecy. During the committee meeting, the issue of intellectual property, which is brought by an individual employee, was also raised whether it would not be affected by the provisions of the amended law in some way. Explains that the bill does not give rise to such a threat. No legislative comments were made during the discussion at the committee meeting. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Łukasz Piebiak is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, if the marshal will permit.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit about the presentation. The purpose of the Law adopted by the Sejm on 5 July is to transpose into Polish law the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/943 of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified know-how and classified commercial information, business secrets, against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The arrangements provided for in the Act shall provide for the minimum standard of protection of business secrets required by the provisions of the Directive. These include among others: clarification of the definition of company secrecy, an example of unfair competition in breach of company secrecy and an indication of circumstances excluding liability for breach of company secrecy. The Act introduces new measures to protect the secret of an undertaking which may be implemented by judicial civil proceedings in the event of breach of the secret of an undertaking. These measures include the publication of a judgment or information on its content, the judgment of remuneration for the use of the company's secrecy in the future and the determination of compensation as the equivalent of the licence fee due for the exercise of the company's secrecy. The law also regulates the question of the protection of the company's secrecy in connection with legal proceedings concerning its infringement. If a participant in a trial concerning a breach of the secret of an undertaking, with the exception of disclosure, discloses or uses information constituting a secret which he has taken up in the course of this process, his action under the new rules will be subject to criminal liability. The aim of the Act is to ensure in Poland a level of protection of a company's secrecy comparable to that in other countries of the Union. On the one hand, the new law should discourage unfair competition and on the other hand create a transparent and stable legal framework for the use of know-how. I ask the High House to adopt the law as adopted by the Sejm, given that the deadline for transposition of the Directive expired on 9 June. We're a little late, but we tried to make the delay as small as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of the electoral code. The text of the act is contained in print No 909, and the report of the committee In print No 909 A. [[There's no Senator Gogach.]] [[Senator Gogacz...]] We are waiting for the rapporteur, Mr Stanisław Gogach. He's on his way, so... one minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 30 to 10 minutes 31]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u53	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm sorry I'm late for causing you so much trouble, but I thought I had anticipated the time of my arrival. And yet all of this has been accelerated... [[Your marshal has accelerated and you haven't anticipated...]] Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much. I have the honour and honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 20 July 2018 on the amendment of the Act on the Election Code. The report is contained in print No 909 A, related to senate print No 909, also concerns seym print No 2660. Following the examination of the bill at the committee meeting on 23 July 2018, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution as it is in orange printing. Minority applications have been submitted to this law. They will certainly be presented by the rapporteurs of minority proposals, so that I will skip it. With regard to the essence of the changes that have been made in the Act... This essence of change comes down... following the way of the Legislative Bureau, I'll say these are four groups of changes. The first group concerns changes to certain cancellation and registration deadlines, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 97 (2), Art. 218 §2, Art. 404, Art. 405 §1, Art. 195 §2. The second group concerns the change of the initial day from which the time limit for the election representatives to carry out different activities is counted. The third group concerns... This is to correct the deficiencies resulting from previous amendments, i.e., it can be said that these are technical changes. This most important group of changes are changes in the printing on which we work in the range of points 13 and 25. These are changes in the elections to the European Parliament. The essence of these changes is that in place of one electoral district, which is the entire Polish state in the current legal state, we introduce 13 electoral districts, i.e.... It is simply these mandates, which are to be separated, in the number of pre-established and approved of course, are to be divided between 13 electoral districts, depending on how many voters will vote in each electoral district. The electoral threshold, the criterion required by European Union law, is preserved because there is a 5% electoral threshold. The principle of proportionality has also been maintained. The D-Hondt method, which is that we divide the number of voters in different districts by integers, is also preserved. Except, as long as we had previously shared mandates with the D-Hondt method, as far as national election committees are concerned, this division will now take place in each of the electoral districts. What dominated the deliberations of the committee which prepared this report was the discussion of the extent to which this change would result in the situation that the smallest electoral committees would not have any mandate in the European Parliament, because... It is simply the so-called one. effective threshold. If we have a statutory threshold for elections to the European Parliament, the statutory threshold, which was 5% , is 5%. And it just doesn't change, it's something constant and unchanging. However, with regard to the so-called. effective threshold, it's him at the moment As indicated in the legal opinion presented by the Legislative Office, the discussion will also be higher. The Legal Office indicated that it could be up to 16.5%. , on the basis of the current indications, of the current data on the elections to Parliament, of the current survey data. With regard to the electoral threshold that is being mentioned here, on a European scale... Data from different countries, where this threshold is simply lower, are cited in the legal information. Well, we have Ireland here, where the threshold is higher. It has been pointed out that the greater the electoral district is. . while maintaining the principle of proportionality The smaller the committees, the smaller the committees that receive less support, can receive mandates. And if there are more electoral districts, then at this point these smaller committees may not receive as many mandates as they had received before. It's just that the division will be made in every constituency. And that was basically the most important part of our discussion about how much this threshold it will increase effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u54	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are four groups of amendments that the senator mentioned. I'll go straight to the fourth group, too, because the other ones are tidying up. The most important thing is this group four. What do we charge the bill with? It has, in particular, 2 disadvantages, lack of proportionality and a high electoral threshold. And, of course, this law is incompatible with European law. It is a parliamentary project. At the committee meeting there was no representative of the group of Members, he was to represent them by Mr Artur Principle. There was no public hearing. This is a very important project, because when it comes to elections, electoral ordination, these laws must be approached with particular care, preferably in consensus, in good time. The work in the Sejm was done in such a way that a lot of amendments were made at the committee's meeting first. Then there was a meeting of the emergency committee, which also discussed this project. It was amended on 5 pages, and the law itself covered 2.5 pages. That indicates how prepared this project was. He was just bad, sloppyly prepared. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing: the lack of proportionality and the high electoral threshold. Why is there no proportionality? Well, as Senator Gogacz mentioned, seats were cleared in such a way that Poland was the 1st constituency. There was a division of 13 districts, but the idea was to point out these proper election mandates in each district, and this was done in three stages. First, we had to figure out who crossed the 5% threshold. This is the first, most important thing, starting with exceeding the percentage threshold. European requirements are such that this threshold is not to be higher than 5%. And it's different in different countries, it can be lower, 2%, 3%, 4%. Sometimes he's not at all, but he's not supposed to be more than 5%. And now, in the case of one constituency covering the whole country, you had to first see which committees exceeded 5%. And there was a guarantee that if I crossed, it would be a ticket. This is the effective threshold that can then be changed. The effective one was 5.3% in the election, and in others it was probably approx. 7% ...Well, that's what we have in the bill. Well, we have in the bill that this threshold is going to be 5%. Even though we know in advance that's not true. But it's written, yes, it's not going to be more than 5%. The change is... Of course, when it comes to what has been going on so far, we can discuss it, it's about this wandering voice, one can say, which is so addicted to the end of it, among other things. from attendance, etc. Meanwhile, we went a whole different way here. Well, we went in such a direction that the whole country is not the 1st constituency, but we divided it into 13 electoral districts, and now in each district we're going to settle seats. What's causing this? Let me give you a simple example. The bill states that there will be a minimum of 3 seats and a maximum of 6 seats in each constituency. That's the division, the regulation will tell us what it's gonna look like. And here's a simple example. We have a 3-mandate district. Imagine that 4 candidates get a similar election result, about 25%, e.g. 24%, 24.5%, 25%, 25.5%. And what does it turn out to be? It turns out that the fourth candidate won't get a mandate, even though he got 24%. What's the effective threshold? 24%. If there are 5 parking tickets or 6 parking tickets, it will be lower. The Legislative Office based on its analysis indicated that it would be between 16.5% a 21% That's pretty much what it's gonna look like. Also from my analysis, which I've been working on, it's going to be between 15% and 15%. a 20% , medium. But it could also be 24%, as I just said. So we're talking about a threshold of 5%. , and in fact, if we don't choose these tickets within the 1st district... If it was one district, it'd be 51 or 52 parking tickets, which is whoever was at the end, despite the 5%. He'd get a ticket. In a situation where Poland is divided into 13 electoral districts, this is not possible. Therefore, the question is: is proportionality maintained here? The electoral threshold, we already know, is high and illegal with European law. Is proportionality maintained? Of course, it is not preserved because smaller committees have no possibility of obtaining mandates. The simulation shows... I will no longer repeat who would have gotten it in previous elections, with whom there would be an increase in the number of these mandates. We, of course, want to participate in this parliamentary work, we want to participate in the elections, but we want it to be fair that smaller committees do not have the opportunity to receive mandates. And this ordination makes it practically, you can say, we are going in the bipolar direction, because of course the most seats in the current situation, which is reflected in the polls, would get the PiS and the Civic Platform. But that's not the point. We do not have a bipolar system in Poland, a two-party system, but there are many other parties. Although they are not represented here, in the Senate, but we must honestly say that they also want to vote in Poland, so far they have been, such are traditions. To be in the European Parliament. Therefore, we do not have the proportionality to be respected. We have a high electoral threshold, which is unfortunately, but it is against European law and we are exposed to another conflict after the adoption of this law. Well, these amendments that were made in the Sejm, and how many were there, also indicate that the project was prepared badly and sloppyly. Well, because there are so many amendments that can't be made. And one last thing: what will be the interest in the elections to the European Parliament if we adopt this ordination? Well, smaller committees in advance will know that it will be a lost voice, that they will not be able to apply, which will, of course, affect attendance. I'm convinced that attendance... We wanted attendance to be as large as possible, and that would make attendance even smaller, although it's the smallest when it comes to elections. During the work in the Sejm there were also proposals to... Besides, Marshal Borowski will also make such a proposal in a moment, because we discussed this at the committee meeting. If anything, constitutionalists say that if there are smaller electoral districts, there must be a minimum of 10 seats in the district to keep a proportion. This proportionality will not yet be appropriate, but efficiency will be increased. And that's the minimum. So we're also going to propose that we divide not into 13 electoral districts, but into 3 or 4 electoral districts. Then we'll get close to it, but it's not gonna be that yet. In different countries, this is different, but there are generally large electoral districts everywhere, and thus proportionality and a high electoral threshold are maintained. Which is why all I can say is that we're against this bill. She does not meet the conditions, the requirements that are, is dishonest to some political parties and reduces the interest in parliamentary elections, which is also not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. I am now asking the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will talk more about this project in the discussion, but now I will just make a very brief request from the minority. He is, in a sense, responding to the argument which is used by the authors of this project, namely that it is about ensuring that voters from a particular constituency have a guarantee that there will also be a representative in the European Parliament from this district. This is, of course, confusing because today we know very well that for the 51 seats we have in the European Parliament, every voivodeship has a representative there, in any case each of these 13 electoral districts has at least one representative. Therefore, it is not very clear why this amendment is being made. At least from this point of view, which is preached because, as far as other reasons are concerned, they are rather well known. But if you do... If we want to reconcile on the one hand the required proportionality and on the other hand the certainty that candidates from certain electoral districts will certainly be in the European Parliament, then the country can be divided into a number of electoral districts in order to maintain proportionality. And there were various proposals here, but in the end it seems that the two objectives of the proposal to divide into four electoral districts, sort of like this, I would say geographical, rational, or northwest, central east, southeast and southwest. And in these electoral districts, the number of tickets... Of course, it is the electoral commission that will ultimately determine, but this number of mandates can be predicted more or less, given the population in these districts. These numbers of mandates are as follows. In the district which would group the Pomorskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Wielkopolska and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships, it would be 13 seats, in the Podlaskie, Warmia-Mazurskie, Mazowieckie and Łódź voivodships, it would be 14 seats, in Lubelskie, Podkarpackie, Małopolskie and Świętokrzyskie This already covers the expected number of seats for Poland, 52 seats. With this number of mandates, the proportionality of elections is preserved, and at the same time we increase the guarantee After all, as I said, we do not give this guarantee because it was already there, we only increase it That the representatives of these districts will be in the European Parliament. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're Marshal Bielan, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u59	Yeah, I have a few questions. First of all, I have a question... [[Voice from the room: The card is not inserted.]] [[I don't think I can hear you.]] I'm sorry. Firstly, I have a question for the rapporteur of the committee and your marshal, why the representative of the applicants, Mr Arthur Zawisza, has not been invited... [[Voice from the room: Rules.]] Rules, Arthur Rules. Because Senator Florek has accused you of being absent. I had just contacted him and learned that he had not been invited to either the committee meeting or the plenary session. Secondly, I'd like to ask Senator Flork, who referred And it's such a big mess about the work of our Senate. On a curiosity, not to say embarrassing, the legal opinion on this law. Senator Florek refers to it and says that the effective electoral threshold will be in line with this change in the ordination of 16.5%. and will therefore be allegedly incompatible with Union legislation. Does Senator Florek know any simulations, any simulations of how this change would affect the results in 2014? Do you know Senator Florek, for example? simulation by the Batory Foundation according to which PSL received 6,8% in the recent elections to the European Parliament, would win a mandate and the SLD, which received just over 9%, would win 2 seats? If Senator Florek knows this simulation And I'm sure he met her when he was on the case. It's how the senator connects it to saying that on a national scale, the election committee will have to get 16.5%. ?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're asking the senator... It was a question for Senator Flork, but I'd like to ask Senator Jan Filip Libicki another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u61	Thank you very much. I, too, am a little concerned about the absence of Mr Rules. [[Voice from the room: Messenger...]] Rules. Mr. Ruler doesn't exist. On the other hand, there are doubts about proportionality, the electoral threshold... On the third hand, when we talked about local government, the Members of the Law and Justice who were preparing this ordination had themselves tabled 100 amendments to it. Here, too, amendments were made... by the authors in the Seym, as I heard. So my question is this: can Senator Gogacz, as rapporteur, assure us that we will not work again on this bill? Because this is where it's customary: we've been working on the Supreme Court five times, we've been working on other laws more times, so... [[Okay, Mr. Senator...]] ...I don't know if we can be sure that this is... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...the last time we're working on... [[Question's been answered.]] ...ordinating to the European Parliament during this Senate term.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u62	Okay, thank you. Question's been answered. [[Thank you.]] You'll ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u63	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for both rapporteurs, Senator Gogach and Senator Flork. Is this system, which is proposed in Poland, i.e. the system consisting of dividing the country into several electoral districts, applied in Europe, and if so, in which countries and how is it motivated?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u64	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Piotr Florek, and then the Senator rapporteur for the majority, Mr Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, thank you for the very good question about this non-invitation. Until now, we have always been informed at the committee meeting that Members of... There's been a lot of cases like this. Members have always been invited so far, but they have been absent, and it turns out that the situation has been reversed. Mr. Marshal, as to the embarrassing opinion of the Legislative Bureau, this is a theory that we probably can't agree with. I have read many times the opinions of our legal office, which are presented to us, and I have not yet met with any embarrassing opinion. Of course, you always say it's just an opinion and nothing more. Well, okay, this is the office's opinion, but, ladies and gentlemen, you can't question the office's opinion, because, as I understand it, the whole team is preparing it, checking it out. Such an opinion is independent. We change, parties change in the Senate, groups in power, etc., but as far as I know, legislators work all the time, and therefore their opinion cannot be a custom-made opinion. We were discussing the courts yesterday about what the situation might be like after these changes. I don't want to develop it, but undermining... You can discuss with a legal opinion, of course, because it can always be that such an opinion is not entirely correct. And we're discussing here, but the idea that it was an embarrassing legal opinion is, so to speak, very strong. Mr. Marshal, about this simulation... I don't know, I think you want to support what I said. Okay, let me get this straight. Well, that's the conclusion. As for this simulation based on the 2014 elections, the PSL would actually have gotten in, only that it had 4 seats then and now it would have 1 mandate. [[With 6.8%, she'd get a ticket.]] It got 4, with 6.8%. And now it's got one ticket. [[But not 16.5%.]] Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u66	He'd have one ticket, even though he didn't get 16.5%. So, the thesis... [[Gentlemen...]] ...concluded in this opinion that there would be an allegedly effective electoral threshold of 16,5% at national level She's obviously not true. [[Of course...]] Both PSL and SLD scored below 16.5%.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u67	It is, Mr. Marshal, obviously true... [[Math!]] ...because there was a threshold of 5.3% in the previous elections. Or a couple of... As a result, PSL received four seats. [[But...]] And now that the effective threshold is 16% ... [[Gentlemen...]] ...would have one ticket. It's the opposite. [[But you don't understand what I'm asking.]] [[Gentlemen, gentlemen...]] I understand very well. [[Quiet, please, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Marshal, another example: The SLD had nine tickets, and now, counting...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u68	Can I ask you a question? Because perhaps you don't understand the senator. I asked if you were familiar with the simulation of the 2014 election result according to this proposed version of the ordination? Do you know that, according to this proposed version, both the PSL and the SLD would win seats without exceeding 16.5% ? In 2014, PSL won, I will remind you, 6,8% , and the SLD slightly over 9%, so the thesis is that you have to exceed 16,5% On a national scale, she's obviously not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u69	Mr. Marshal, you don't understand. I'm sorry. I'll try to explain it to you again. The national electoral district was 1, the seats were divided on a scale... [[There are 13 districts. You don't know this ordination.]] [[Mr. Marshal, let the senator know.]] Mr. Marshal, well, it's a very good thing that... the mandates were shared on the basis of one electoral district. And since they were then divided into 13 districts, in different stages and so on... Mr. Marshal, we have 1 constituency so far, so that PSL has won 4 seats, and SLD has received 9 seats... [[5.]] [[Voice in the hall: 5 seats.]] [[Yeah, five.]] Five tickets was a SLD? I think so, five. And now... at that order, the electoral threshold was, I don't remember, 5.3%. Or seven or something... That's the electoral threshold. And so they got so many tickets. Now the election district... Now it's not going to be the 1st constituency on a national scale, it's not going to be so settled, it's going to be the 13th constituency, and in each district by the D-Hondt method, it's going to be determined who got the tickets. As the threshold will be... I don't know if it's going to be 16%. He can be between 15% a 20% Depending on the outcome of the election. I was giving you an example of a 3-mandate constituency that... If 4 candidates get a similar number of votes there, i.e. about 25%, this effective threshold will be up to twenty-two percent. The effective threshold will be... Because we have a different order, now it's not 1 district, it's 13 electoral districts. There was a low threshold and PSL received 4 mandates and here, with an effective threshold of 16% , PSL will receive 1 mandate. Well, I guess it's clear and simple, Mr. Marshal. Of course, it will gain Law and Justice, and it will also benefit the Civic Platform, because this is probably one more mandate, but the PSL, but the SLD... At the moment, there is a representation of 8 Polish political parties in Parliament. I repeat: 8 parties are in Parliament. And after the election? [[Voice from the room: 2.]] Maybe two, maybe three... 'Cause maybe one ticket's gonna get somebody. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But there'll be two, maybe three. And that's the change, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u70	Mr. Marshal, do you want to ask? So please be brief, because there are other people who have signed up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u71	Mr. Senator, do you understand what an effective electoral threshold is? Do you understand that the statement that it is necessary to exceed 16.5% on a national scale ... [[There's no...]] ...in the election... [[No, no.]] That is the statement in this opinion. [[No, no. You don't understand that opinion.]] In Poland... I will quote this opinion: In Poland the effective electoral threshold will be 16,5%. So many votes on a national scale will have to be given to the electoral committee in order to obtain a mandate. It's obviously not true. And now that you're answering my question, you've proved it. [[No.]] PSL, not exceeding 7% He would have gotten a ticket according to this ordination. SLD, not exceeding 10% He'd get a ticket. So this statement in this opinion is not true. Do you know the opinion of an outstanding professional, Dr. Hab? Szymanka, prepared for the Sejm, which is completely different from this opinion prepared for the Senate? And another question, Mr. Marshal Borowski. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u72	But, Mr. Marshal, it's in the next round. [[Good.]] There are many more people who want to ask questions. You're saved, and in a few minutes, you'll be able to ask another question. Are you Senator... [[Yeah, yeah. I have to.]] ...want to answer? Senator Gogacz is waiting with an answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u73	Yeah, okay. Mr. Marshal, there are a lot of professionals who write opinions. I'm the opinion you're talking about, maybe I don't know, maybe I've read, but I don't remember the name. The colleagues who are sitting next to you may explain to you in a moment... I don't want to repeat and explain what you don't understand again. The Legislature Bureau prepared only a simulation, which shows that if there are 3-mandate districts to 6-mandate, then on average, based on analysis... [[You don't understand, Senator.]] ...an effective threshold will be... The office said it'd be between 16.5%. I think it's 21%. I figured between 15% 20%. I'm not arguing about that 1%. ... [[In the districts, not in the country.]] In different circles... [[But not in the country.]] But there's no list... [[Gentlemen, gentlemen...]] There's no settlement in the country. The settlement... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen!]] The settlement... [[You don't understand...]] No, you don't understand. You don't understand. [[Gentlemen!]] There is no guarantee that if anyone exceeds 5% ... PSL would be given 1 mandate on the basis of the 2014 election simulation, but there is no guarantee that it will receive 1 mandate in the 2019 elections. [[But it's not about...]] There is no certainty, because it will be settled in individual districts, not on a national scale. So... [[Bravo! You're beginning to understand.]] But you don't understand. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Therefore, the PSL... You say you will. No, he may not get a ticket... [[I'll explain it to you later.]] On the basis of the 2014 simulation, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for Yeah, one ticket would win. But it all depends on how in different circles... [[So it's possible?]] ...they're gonna work out... Of course it's possible. It can be that, for example. Platform... [[Thank you.]] ...or the PiS won't have a strong candidate, and it's gonna be in PSL. So that's possible, but we're talking about the situation... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a free discussion, just answers to questions. Don't bother the Senator rapporteur. Here you go, Senator's questions...]] There was another question for me. It's about these ticket districts. Ladies and gentlemen, the division into such large districts is generally in all European countries. The opinion also states that there are actually only three countries, i.e. Belgium, Ireland and the United Kingdom, where it is slightly different. This, of course, also involves this threshold, which we have been talking about, an effective threshold. Of course, it matters. France had several electoral districts, but they gave it up, and at the moment it's only one electoral district. And in those three countries there are specific situations; e.g. Belgium is divided by language, because there is Flemish, French and German, so they have a division by 3 circles. There is a similar situation in Ireland; there they have a different division due to tradition. In the UK, as you know, they generally have one-mandate electoral districts. So that's where they tried to combine it in some way, but yet this effective threshold is different. Bottom line, I'm going to say this: writing in the bill that the threshold is 5% is an illusion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u74	Thank you. Senator Gogacz. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u75	I would first like to answer the technical question whether there was an invited representative of the applicants. As far as Members are concerned, the Senate's committee of local government has received this information. She made such an invitation before the meeting of the 3 joint committees. Senator Wcisła asked about the number of electoral districts. This has already been presented. In the legal information we have obtained from the Legislative Office, it is simply quoted, given what it looks like in Europe. Now what you asked Senator Libicki if the future would not bring us some unforeseen situation that would force us to make it necessary to update what is presented today. Well, you know, the future is always uncertain, but we're doing everything we can to make sure there's no uncertain events. And this bill, which is being presented, has a purpose. About the so-called. effective thresholds, that is, of course, a moving thing. It's hard for us to predict, for example. no such thing will happen that the electoral committees will decide to create a single entity, which will be one electoral committee, which may, as a result, become competitive. And assuming now a priori that the effective threshold will be the one we are talking about today, or one with all due respect to the Legislative Office As in the simulations that this office presents to us, for example, in the context of what I said, that small committees come together... Besides, in the 1990s, there was an idea to just create a mechanism that would make small committees work together. If there was such a thing, then of course we would have a different situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representative of the minority's motion, which is Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, do you know the saying: there's a lie, a big lie, and at the end of the statistics? [[Yes, of course.]] It's the middle surgery that's the statistics in this case. Medium, e.g. arithmetic, this is an extremely bad representation. And the first question. I'd like you to explain something. You're being thorough. I'm sure we'll be fine. There are 2 recommendations on the legal issues of the European Union. One is the proportionality of the elections. Please tell me whether the elections in the 3-mandate district are proportional or not Of course, they can be majority, but using the D-Hondt rule, because according to theory, yes. Even if the circles are small, we're still within the limits of the concept of circles... i.e. proportionate choices. And the second question, which is related to the election threshold. The effective threshold should be calculated only within the circle, the average is pointless. That's why it can be that in some circle, e.g. Six-mandate, and there are two of us, with a sufficiently high percentage of support for a given party in this district, this party may get a mandate, although in another district it will not get. That's why midterm surgery is pointless here, as I said. [[Of course I do.]] But let's get back to that threshold. The effective threshold can be indicated, or actually calculated, after the elections, in a particular situation. Could there be an order for a 5% threshold in European Union law, i.e. before the elections, and it could be an effective threshold? I think it's about the statutory threshold. Do we have a statutory threshold guaranteed in this ordination, i.e. Are we within the 5% threshold? [[Of course I do.]] 2 specific questions. Are the three-mandate circles still proportional? And second question. Is this a statutory threshold that we have defined as a 5% threshold or an effective threshold that is counted after the elections? [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u78	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u79	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Flork, too. A little bit before me, Senator Czerwiński, so partly, therefore I will no longer talk about effective thresholds, because I think that Senator Czerwiński explained it very well. However, I have two very specific questions for you in this regard. First. There are currently 2 parking tickets in Lublin. There'll be three parking tickets after this shift. Is this an increase or a reduction in the effective electoral threshold for the Lublin region? Two. Will this increase the proportionality of the elections in Lublin or reduce it? And the third question. Will this change we are proposing simplify the electoral system or complicate it more? Is this de facto one in the first stage of the granting of seats to the electoral district, namely Poland+, the breaking of tickets plus this, say, travelling ticket, this is a simpler or more difficult solution to what we propose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u80	Thank you. Is Senator Senator Comfort too... [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, a question for Senator Borowski.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Maybe later, you want to finish him off?]] Okay, I'll be there in a minute. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u81	Exactly. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. I'll start with your question. I could also say that it's true, it's just the truth, and... Well, I'm not gonna finish saying that. We can discuss this. Mr. Senator, a little bit of strict math, a little simple stuff, and everything is clear. As to whether there are any proportions in the 3-mandate electoral district... It all depends on what the law says. We're talking about a threshold that's supposed to be 5%. So we say, effective can always... We say no. In the 3-mandate district, when will the principle of proportionality be maintained? If we write in the law that the threshold will be 20%, yes, but EU law says that not more than 5% and in other countries there are also smaller thresholds. Therefore, will this proportion be maintained or not? Well, we have to combine both. The starting threshold... Isn't that clear? Well, maybe right away, because the answer's similar... In part, I'm sending this to Senator Mr. Frost. So here's the thing: the electoral districts are going to have three to six tickets. Simulation is always something we show to see what could happen after the election. That's why we're doing some kind of simulation. But of course it's just a simulation, nothing more. She's talking about some kind of averaging, about how you can count it more or less, but that doesn't mean it's not gonna be any different in each election district. The situation may be that the lot will exceed 10% on a national scale, if we add up all of this and even more, 15% , and will not receive any mandate. Or maybe there's a situation that in the district you were just talking about, where there'll be three tickets, you'll find that the PiS will put up a very bad candidate, Platform It's also a bad... It will turn out that the first will be from another group, from another party, I no longer want to mention from which party, the second ticket will be won by someone... This is real, of course, in a given district there may be a situation that other parties will also get a mandate. But if we consider the polls and simulations that they are, in your constituency... There, too, when you look at the polls, the most percentage has Law and Justice, and the second is the Civic Platform. So if there's three tickets... One can easily predict that there will be no group that will gain several or 20%. So if there's three tickets, then whoever wins... If he wins the Law and Justice, because he's got a percentage, he's gonna get his first ticket. The second ticket according to this simulation will probably win the Civic Platform. The third ticket is likely to win the PiS candidate, unless there's someone else who, in my opinion, will actually jump out. It is quite possible that someone will win more votes and that someone from another political party will win a ticket in some constituency. Okay, we agree on all of this. We're talking about an average simulation. This is something that could happen. It's just a simulation. It is clear that in the electoral districts also another candidate can obtain support, but due to any polls that are being conducted, the probability of this is very low. If you find yourself in such a constituency, for example. Mr. Senator Borowski, in the 1-mandate district, he will win the election. And it's gonna be... He's gonna run off as a non-member, get a ticket in the constituency, and he's gonna have it. But we're not talking about individual cases right now, we're talking about simulations. That's pretty much how it's presented by the Legislative Bureau. How can you not understand the outcome of the election... The election results will actually be after the election. Only then will we know them. Of course, there may be differences in the different electoral districts, but consider, reasonably, what are the polls and what are the odds. And that's it. There may be derogations, but once it's all worked out, we know. Most seats in the current polls... We don't know what it's gonna be like in May, ladies and gentlemen. Let's wait. But with the current polls, the most seats will be won by the PiS, then by the Civic Platform, and then you don't know. Because we don't know if anyone's... [[Because he's got the biggest support.]] Because he's got the biggest support. This ordination is going in the direction of bipolarity. If there are 50 seats in the constituency and we set a 5% threshold, the one at the end, thirty, forty... Because every time we divide by two... he's finally gonna get this ticket. But if the county doesn't have 50 parking tickets and three parking tickets, then... I think it's clear and obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u82	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] Yes, Mr. Senator. Stay on the stand, or Senator Czerwiński will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u83	The question is very simple. I didn't ask about simulations, predictions, etc. I was asking about the law. That's a zero-one question. There are 2 restrictions in European law. That's what we've been told. Elections must be proportionate. The question is: are the elections for converting votes into seats according to the D-Hondt rule proportional in the case of 3-mandat districts? This is zero-one: yes or no. I'm not asking about the degree of proportionality. Second question. Is it a statutory threshold, or a maximum 5% threshold set by law, or an effective threshold calculated separately for each district after an election act? Anyway... [[Voice from the room: Fallandization...]] It's a very simple question. Again, is it a statutory threshold or an effective threshold? First question. Are the elections in the 3-mandat district when converting mandates in accordance with the D-Hondt rule to convert votes into mandates Are they proportional? I'm not asking how proportional, I'm asking if they're proportional.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u84	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u85	Senator, do I have to tell you the same thing all the time? [[No. Tell me.]] An effective threshold... After the election, after the election results, we know how much it took to get a percentage to get a ticket. The law states that the threshold is 5%. In advance, we know that the effective threshold actually calculated after the election... It's gonna be a hell of a lot more than that. We've just got a scam here. There's a fraud in the law. It is not true that it is possible to reach a threshold of up to 5%. It's just impossible. Just like you, sir. I said proportionality depends, of course, on this threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Pociej has a question for Senator Borowski. Yes? [[Yes, sir.]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in France, the electoral ordination has been so constructed that for many, many years, Mrs. Le Pen's family party has been gaining 20 and 25%. He doesn't go into parliament. In turn, the European electoral ordination is constructed according to the principles that we are talking about here today, and without any problem the representatives of the National Front are sitting in the European Parliament. And I feel like... I don't want to argue with statistics here because I don't know anything about statistics, but if... my question is this. If the interpretation of our Legislative Office is true, then in turn in Poland there will be a reverse system, a system that will block small parties, leading to a two-party representation system. My question is this: do you think that our entire philosophy, when it comes to elections, about the construction of parliamentarianism, will lead to such results and such a position that we will ultimately have to deal with a two-party system?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u88	Thank you very much. The question is still asked by Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u89	Thank you very much. I have the following question. Well... [[Voice from the room: To whom?]] Senator Gogach. Well, this expertise from the Senate's legal office shows... I don't want to go into whether she's good or bad right now, but that's more or less because the European principle is that the electoral threshold should be maintained and the proportionality principle should be respected. This opinion also shows that we can deal with such a situation that these two elements will not be preserved. And now my question is, is it that the ordination of the European Parliament is, so to speak, only the domain of national law, which is what ordination we are going to adopt, that is what we will have, even if we violate these two elements, it will be nothing to anybody, or it will be so that in a situation where this violation will be found, for example. by the European Commission, will the European Commission pay attention to this issue? I say immediately, because Senator Frost at the committee hearing accused me of suggesting an intervention by the opposition that no, it is not. I care about not prolonging... [[Question, Senator, question.]] ...the process of adopting a new ordination for the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u90	Thank you, too. You're Marshal Adam Bielan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u91	Thank you very much. I've already given up on Senator Flork because he's waterproof for arguments or, at least, I hope, that's a better version for him... [[Mr. Marshal, question.]] ...must be waterproof. I'd like to ask Mr. Marshal Borowski, because he's an outstanding character when it comes to arithmetic. If you take into account those calculations, which you know for certain, from 2014 and if you accept the current change in ordination and that the PSL would have taken a mandate after these changes, 1 mandate, but would have taken that the SLD would have taken 2 seats, of course you know the case of your former party colleague, who is extremely popular in his constituency, Mr Zemke, who takes a mandate there even with low SLD performance. Whether it is possible to write as stated in the Legal Office's opinion: In Poland the effective electoral threshold will be 16.5%. So many votes on a national scale will have to I repeat, he's gonna have to. Do you want to get an election committee to get a mandate? It's obviously not true. Secondly, I would like to ask you about your statement that a change in the electoral order may result in a reduction in attendance. I'm sure the marshal knows his attendance at the European Parliament elections. In the last election, she was 23.83%. This is the lowest turnout of all turnouts in elections organized in Poland. Third, I'm sure the marshal knows that this current ordination, called Giertych's monster... I do not reveal any secret here, because Mr Giertych confessed to the way in which the votes were converted into seats and wrote it clearly in 2004 in the interest of the League of Polish Families, which he was head of. Do you know that this current ordination can cause, with some unfavorable distribution of votes, that, for example, As many as 8 and in the extreme case 13 electoral districts will have no representative? Is that arithmetically possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u92	Okay, thank you, Mr. Marshal. Because it's been a minute. There you go, Senator Borowski, and then Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u93	Okay, then. , we will begin with the question of Senator Pociej, namely whether the majority election That's the way it's gonna be. They correspond to our tradition, etc., etc. I'll be honest with you, I don't want to talk about it. Well, I guess an expert, a politician, is an opinion. We have supporters of the majority ordination of one-mandate districts, known elsewhere and sometimes very aggressive in this regard. There are those, and so far they dominate, who say that the proposed ordination is a better ordination. I personally am in favour of a ordination that is proportionate to the Sejm. I'm talking about our national elections, but it doesn't matter, my opinion doesn't matter. As far as elections to the European Parliament are concerned, the 2002 European Council decision strongly speaks of proportionate elections. And now the question is, is this interpreted in a scholastic way, as he suggested? I'm looking for Senator Czerwinski. Senator Czerwiński or what did you propose to Senator Frost at the committee meeting? Senator Frost said, "Well, what is it?" After all, the choices are proportional, because the letters come in, and there's a 5% threshold. Then what is it? This means that this is in line with what the European Union requires. No, it's not. How was the European Union supposed to write down the decision that elections should be proportionate? Well, he can't write about that. There can be no electoral districts or that the country is to be one district. There's been some rehearsals. There have been attempts to align electoral ordination with the European Parliament on the scale of all countries, but they have failed. And it was left to the countries to decide that, for example, there may be electoral districts, please go ahead, there may be a system of D. Hondt or another system, whatever, but one rule must be observed: that the maximum presence of different groups and movements in the European Parliament is ensured provided that they cross the threshold because they have been allowed to set a threshold Okay, here's the A maximum of 5%. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, maximum.]] Maximum. Because it was feared that if you didn't, it would be the kind of trial that would set the 10% threshold. , 15% , 20% And actually none of this proportionality is going to happen. And now we have to interpret this proposal, which is on the table today, which is 13 electoral districts, mainly 3-mandate and 4-mandate districts, there are five 3-mandate and 4-mandate districts, one 5-mandate and two 6-mandate districts... Well, we have to interpret this proposal in the context of a decision by the European Council saying that elections must be proportionate. And now... here I am, like, fluently moving on to what Marshal Bielan was asking. I understand that this statement of an effective threshold can be interpreted differently, and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal and Mr. Senator Florek, have been subject to accusations who do not understand. It seems to me that this was rather due to a misunderstanding or perhaps a lack of such a closer definition of this effective threshold. This effective threshold shows that there may be such a situation that the grouping, which will be supported slightly below this threshold, will not receive a single mandate. This does not mean that she will exist, it does not mean that you can count on it, just make comparisons with 2014, but that means that there may be such a situation. Well, in the ordination we have so far, this situation has been impossible. Enough of that, every group that's over 5%. He had a guarantee that he'd get the tickets. I'll tell you more: he could have calculated how many tickets he was gonna get. 5% with a small tail gave 2 or 3 parking tickets. And as we look at the results of these last elections in 2014, we'll see that the SLD was about 9.5% there. And if we multiply 9.5%, For 51 parking tickets, it's obvious we're getting five parking tickets. PiS was 31,78% If we multiply it by 51 parking tickets, that's 19 parking tickets. The platform had 32%, which is almost the same as the PiS, and it also had 19 parking tickets. It was pure proportionality and guarantee, above all guarantee. In this system, which is proposed here, there is no such guarantee. I can show you... We refer here, that is to say, Marshal Bielan refers to the results of the 2014 elections. But we are in 2018, close to 2019 and we know more or less how proportions are shaped today. And those who brought in this project... [[They know that, too.]] ...they counted it, yeah. They're intelligent people. They've counted it. What's our situation today? We've got more or less... The polls are different, but the PiS doesn't go below 35%, the platform, well, it's 20.25% Along with the Modern. Let's just take these two main groups, and let's see, ladies and gentlemen, how is the distribution of mandates according to the system of D.H. Well, I wrote it here so that you can see a little bit, and you can't see a little... The first term of office in the three-mandate circle is taken by the PiS 35%, the second term takes the Platform with the Modern 25%, the third term takes the PiS because 35 divided into 2 is 17,5%. In all three-mandate districts 2 seats take the PiS, 1 ticket takes the Platform. That's how five districts are dealt with. We're moving to four-mandate districts. In the four-mandate 25 circles we divide into two and we get 12.5. Nobody has more. The piss when he divides his score by 3, he's 11,3. If PiS had gotten more, he'd have gotten another ticket. In the four-mandate district, 2 seats will be taken by the PiS, 2 seats will be taken by the Platform. That's how 10 districts are dealt with. In the five-mandate circle, 35 is divided by 3, and it's 11,3. Nobody's gonna have more than 11, 3. The third ticket goes to the PiS. Therefore, there is a division in the five-mandat district: 3 seats, 2 seats, Platform. There are two six-mandate circles left where we're going to level 8.8. But it's only in those districts. If any party gets those 8,8 or 9, it will actually catch one ticket, in the others it must definitely exceed 10%. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's not offend each other, let's not offend each other's intelligence. It's just that this ordination is calculated for this, of course. These little groups may break through somewhere, maybe, but a healthy bill shows there's no guarantee. Group that gets 5.5%, 6%, 7%, 8% He's almost certain... Almost, because I can't say... Well, in the six-mandate district, maybe something will happen... So he's pretty sure he doesn't get a ticket. That's the thing. Proving that this is in line with the decision of the European Council is reprehensible, simply reprehensible. I'm not as afraid as Senator Libicki, who said he wasn't suggesting anything... [[Yes...]] ...absolutely, he's just saying... And what I'm trying to say is that I'm suggesting, I'm suggesting. I believe that our European parliamentarians, who represent groups other than the Law and Justice, should seek the statement of the European Commission on this matter, and perhaps, if there is such a way, to challenge this ordination to the Court of Justice as contrary to the decision of the European Council in a clear way. What was that about, what was the European Union about? There is still the problem of the representativeness of the European Parliament, whether it reflects different opinions, ideas, etc., etc. Well, if all countries went in that direction, we would have 2, 3, tops 4 groups in the European Parliament, which would represent only part of European society. The rest of us would turn our backs on Europe. Because if she didn't have her representatives, if she had nothing to say there, if she couldn't get into the coalition, because she had one Member, then this European Union would just fight back. And we're going this way. As for Roman Giertych and what he invented in his time... It is true that from the very beginning, from the moment this ordination was passed, the voices were raised that it was bizarre. She obviously has strange elements, those wandering tickets. It's true. But it also has a basic advantage, which I said every group that exceeded 5%. He's got tickets. Therefore, I have proposed an amendment that has become a minority request. She is talking about 4 electoral districts, about dividing Poland into 4 electoral districts. There is a guarantee that there will be representatives from these electoral districts and that proportionality will be maintained at the same time. Even from the bill I showed you, if there were 12 tickets in the district... We're going down here very low with these percentages. That's going to be 5%. And then it will actually be certain that in one district or another these mandates will be received. In the end, I didn't really understand what Marshal Bielan said. He said that with the current ordination, there could be such a situation that of the 13 districts there would be no representative. I don't know if... Did I hear that right? If the marshal wanted to explain it... [[Yes, of course. If...]] There's only 13 districts. Does that mean we won't have anyone in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u94	No, no. I said there might not be a ticket in many districts. If 10 committees had collected 10% each, then there would have been no representative from 8 districts, and if 17 electoral lists had been collected 5.8% each Only three districts out of 13 will be represented in Brussels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u95	I see. I don't know these calculations, but I assume they're correct. Someone did. Indeed, this ordination could carry such a danger, although the numbers you give the marshal, e.g. Everyone gets 10%. Or something like that... It's completely unreal here, but... I'm gonna let it happen again. The proposal to divide into 4 districts completely eliminates this risk while at the same time maintaining proportionality. If there's any more questions for me, I'll answer them. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u96	There's a lot. Senator Spider. [[No. I...]] [[It's not for me.]] Senator Bear. [[I don't... I don't...]] [[I'll get off the stand.]] I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[That was Senator Libicki's question.]] Good. Are there any more questions? [[Senator Gogach.]] [[The question was for me.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u97	Mr. Senator, we are returning to the discussion here on the principle of proportionality and the statutory threshold of 5%. By definition, we know that the proportional system requires multi-ndat districts. There is no proportional system in the 1-mandate district. When we read into this submission, in the bill we are discussing, the amending law, in the article. 340a in §1, we see a record that at least 3 Members are elected in the constituency. I would like to remind you that the senators who spoke earlier have already mentioned this. That there are districts that currently have 2 mandates, 2 Members of the European Parliament. It was mentioned here, for example. Lublin. Mr. Senator, we're only one step away from the 1-mandate district. The principle of proportionality is maintained with 2 mandates. Like I said before, it's a multi-ndat district, but there's only two tickets here. And now we are putting in place a record saying that at least 3 Members... Of course, if it's a minimum... Because the simulation shows that it will be from 3 to 6 Members. But later on, art. 340a, in §2, we have information that the determination of the number will be carried out in accordance with the procedure in Article. 340a §2 presented. And as far as these 5% are concerned, ...Well, we're still talking about 5% statutory I don't want to repeat what was said here anymore... everything that comes with an effective threshold, it's the future, it's abstraction, it's just simulations. And what's certain is 5%. [[I have a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u98	Senator Augustine, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u99	I've been checking in for a while, because... we're here, Mr. Senator, and I'm addressing Senator Gogach. We're here to anticipate the real effects of change, not something that's written there, just how it's actually going to be. That is why an effective electoral threshold is so important. And now that this threshold is well above what the Council is demanding in its decision, I would like to ask if you talked about what we are at risk of breaking these rules in the European Union. Was this the subject of discussion, the senators' concerns? If we break the rules of the European Union so openly and so much in relation to other countries, then what next? Because here in the Senate, we have to ask what happens next. Is that what this was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u100	Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u101	I also have questions for Senator Stanislaw Gogach. The first question concerns the principle of proportionality. My knowledge is that the principle of proportionality concerns political representation, not regional representation, and these concepts are constantly mixed up. Maybe I don't know something. I'd like an explanation for that. And the second point is what Senator Mieczysław Augustyn asked, which is an analysis of the consequences of this legislative amendment. If you make a change, you have to anticipate the consequences. Has such simulation been made as would have resulted in the introduction of this legal solution in the previous elections? And does this analysis show that the parties that reached the 5% threshold would have their representation or not? And if they were not, what level of support would they have to achieve in order to gain their representation in the European Parliament? 'Cause I'll remind you that now the games that got 5.3% Support, they have their representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u102	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u103	Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You assumed that we were going beyond the European Union's rules on the electoral threshold, and I could not agree with that because you kind of mix two thresholds, an effective threshold with the statutory threshold. Well, we... [[Math, Mr. Senator. Math.]] As far as the statutory threshold is concerned, we're just keeping this threshold, and as far as the effective threshold is concerned, we can just... You know, there may be situations, but nowhere in the bill is it written how big this threshold will be. They're just simulations, they're predictions, and it's hard... We retain the principle of proportionality and the principle of a 5% statutory electoral threshold, and we are obliged to do so. And when the voter votes out during the campaign, that's another case. And as far as the proportional system is concerned, he, as I said before, simply requires multi-ndat districts. And here I don't see any contradiction about the records that are in this bill. That's it. [[Senator Radziwill...]] [[But was that on the committee? Was it... because the senator's opinion was rather predictable.]] Oh, yeah. Thank you very much. As for the discussion... the discussion was certainly extensive, but... well, there was a discussion about it, but I can't... I would have to have a transcript from this discussion, because there were a lot of threads about the possible scenarios that could happen when it comes to parliamentary elections in the context of the introduction of these 13 electoral districts. There's been a lot of speeches, but I can't right now, I don't have...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u104	Mr. Senator, let me ask you a question. Will you admit, Mr. Senator, that there are no obstacles to a group that will gain less than 16.5%? votes, e.g. PSL, which achieved 6,8% in 2014 , whether the SLD, which achieved 9% in 2014 could they have obtained, according to this proposed electoral order, seats to the European Parliament? So what you're saying, Senator Florek, is that the threshold is going to be 16.5% real. It's completely untrue. Do you admit it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u105	Yeah, I admit it, because we can't... All the more so, as it's been before... [[Nobody's gonna tell us white is white, and black is black...]] [[Don't interrupt.]] Just as it's been mentioned in 13 districts... Well, these 13 districts are different in terms of political colors, as well as some interest in elections, etc. It is difficult to average the situation in 13 districts, which consist of the entire Polish state. Therefore, assuming a priori that there will be a similar threshold effective to at least one mandate, at 16,5% ...Well, I think it's too far gone...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u106	Thank you. Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator... I have a question for Senator Gogach. I don't feel like an expert, but I'm comparing it here. various opinions and I see that there is a large group of speakers who defend the present ordination or the present code, which in the article. 335 says: "Only the list of candidates of these electoral committees who have received at least 5% shall be taken into account in the allocation of mandates. important votes on a national scale. They say that this provision is in line with the requirements of the European Commission. I understand that this is the position of those who say that it is not necessary or not to change it. There is no rule at all about an effective electoral threshold, because it is simply the result of an election. This is the result of the election, which says that if someone got... that only those who... well, that's how they calculated it, got that much or that much percentage in the election. Tell me... True, Marshal Borowski in his lineage, very interesting, said that this election threshold of 5% in practice is also a guarantee, i.e. you can say that anyone who gets 5% he will be given a mandate, but this is not required either in the ordination or by the European Commission. That's the way it is with us. But it can happen, for example. 100% The votes will be gathered by one party, and then those who get 5% They can't even dream of any mandat. Right? There's such a theoretical possibility. So what I'm talking about is whether or not we're even considering the effective electoral threshold, in the context of the legislation we are leaning on, makes sense. It's about guaranteeing... In fact, it can be said that the rules say the opposite: those who receive very little support do not have the chance to share seats. Isn't that what this is about? Tell me, Senator, isn't that the way to look at the concept of an effective electoral threshold, as simply part of the outcome of the election, not the rule or requirement that stands before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u108	Today, I brought up the situation that took place in the 1990s. Then small election committees, small political parties, were forced to form large entities, to join together. Senator Radziwiłł called it here. . that there may be another entity that will accumulate very strong support and be competitive to those that are listed in the simulations. Everything about the effective threshold... In addition to the statutory and effective threshold, there is still a natural threshold, which can also be recalled, concerning the number of votes that have been cast on individual committees. There is no provision for an effective threshold in the legislative proposal, while there is a provision for 5%, that at least three Members receive seats in one district. The principle of proportionality, which I have already mentioned here... I said that according to the principle of proportionality, there must be more than one mandate in one circle. And it's all been guaranteed here. Well, there's a lot to be said about the effective threshold. The Legislative Office has prepared various indications, simulations concerning these 13 districts that we are introducing. This effective electoral threshold is also discussed here. These are the sizes of 11% to 20%. This electorate would have to take part, support the committee, so that this first mandate and possibly another mandate could be obtained. Such simulations are prepared, while the future is unknown to us and we do not know what will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. And that, of course, is where I agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u109	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs. I'm opening a discussion... Unless your head of the CWB wants to speak. [[Head of the National Election Office Magdalena Pietrzak: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... [[Can I ask your boss a question?]] Well, actually, I can't stop you. [[That is not certain in this House.]] Please. [[Martynowski can stop...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u110	I would like to ask about the following, concerning the Wielkopolska Voivodship and the European Parliament elections. So far it has been so that, in connection with the principle of the travelling mandate of Wielkopolska, she had 5 to 6 seats in these elections. At the moment we have very contradictory information, because, on the one hand, Mr Ryszard Czarnecki, who is a MEP from Wielkopolska, says that Wielkopolska will have 4 seats, and on the other hand, in the simulation prepared by the Senate Legislative Office, it is written that Wielkopolska will have 5 seats. All that matters is the total of 51 seats. However, we have brexit, and as a result of this brexit, it may turn out that these mandates will not be 51, only 52 or more. Would you be able to reply to me as a citizen of Wielkopolska, how many MEPs will be elected in this election? If you can't, of course I won't be offended. I understand because it's complicated matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. To your head of the CWB, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u112	I did not examine the benefits of this ordination for Poland, but it is undoubtedly possible to notice that such ordinations create a certain localism, a certain Petrification of the administrative system, a division. Senator Libicki is rightly concerned, although this time not so much about Poland, but I know that he thinks more about Poland... [[Voice from the hall: O Wielkopolska.]] About Wielkopolska... Well, Wielkopolska and Poland are almost synonyms. Right? It's a certain unity with a plus... I'm afraid it's just gonna affect, create divisions or arrangements that don't have anything to do with the election act. Yes, the choice of senators is related to the districts, but now not even to the voivodship, but to the part of the voivodship. And yet, in the case of these elections, it is not a question of choosing a local policy, but of choosing a Polish policy sitting in the European Parliament. Do you not, by creating such records, aim for locality and, in fact, to weaken the position of these MEPs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u113	This is a very important argument behind the national list, and that can be considered, Mr. Senator, but the current ordination also assumes the existence of electoral districts. Senator Florek, before I give the floor to the head of the CWB.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u114	The current ordination is set up by one national electoral district, but a division in 13 districts. Then I have a question for you, too. Because on average for one district it will be 3.9...this is the result of the number of mandates... Well, 51 or 52 in about 13 districts... That's an average of four tickets in one district. I'd like to know... The only thing on the bill is that there are 13 districts. As for the boundaries of these districts and the number of elected parliamentarians, is it rigid and it is already established whether it will be 120 days before the election that we will know the boundaries of the electoral districts and the number of seats? That's my basic question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u115	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the electoral system is concerned, they are determined by the legislator. State Election Commission and National Election Office... According to the Act, it is up to us to prepare and conduct elections. And that's what we're talking about. As far as the principles of electoral systems are concerned, the State Election Commission does not take a position. And as for the details of how many Members will be elected in each district, I don't have that number on me right now, but there's no problem in making that conversion, because it's simple, it's just... We even did these simulations, but I don't have them right now. As far as divisions are concerned, this is also the result of the electoral code law. In Annex 3 at the moment, this breakdown is fixed. And that is also the will of the legislator, how these districts will be established. And yet, speaking of the number of Members... Indeed, at the moment, this document, which states that there will be 52 Members elected in Poland, is quite complicated, only such a reservation is made that if the legal status of the eve of the election is such that there will be no UK in the European Union, it will be 52 Members, and if there is still a United Kingdom, it will be 51. This is a rather strange phrase and it can introduce quite a lot of uncertainty, but for today it is so formulated. [[Excuse me, can I have one more sentence...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u117	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u118	I'd have a request for you, if you don't mind... Can I get a written notice... It also depends on the population, but let's assume that today, as a variant... How much would it be in Wielkopolska if there wasn't a brexitu, and would it make any difference if there was a brexit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u119	Good. Good. [[Thank you.]] [[I want to ask you the same question. May I? I'd like to ask, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u120	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u121	Again, I'd like to know from you... Because the districts, as we know... I know it's your office's job to execute the bill, what we're gonna pass. And as for the boundaries that are set by the regulation, I mean whether these boundaries can still change. I mean, depending on how many people there are going to be. 'Cause there's gonna be new data. It's arrived somewhere. It's gone. And that line... Because there's a division that if there's a full figure, there'll be so many tickets, and if there's a decimal number, depending on whether the tickets are going to be distributed. Whether these boundaries are rigid enough that they will not be changed before the parliamentary elections, or it may be so that e.g. We're gonna add a county to a given district, and we're gonna take it from another district, so we can match the number of residents? Is it stiff, or can it change?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u122	I mean... Of course, the number of inhabitants is not a rigid number, because it may change, but the boundaries of the electoral districts are set out in the annex to the laws of the electoral code, so they can only be changed by amending the law. [[The borders of voivodships.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u123	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. [[No, not necessarily, because it's a few...]] [[Head of the National Election Office Magdalena Pietrzak:...Voice districts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a simple question. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Please turn off your phones, or at least keep them quiet.]] When will there be elections to the European Parliament? There's an election period. How long is he and does the length of this period condition one date? I'm asking because we have to choose on Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u125	Yes. The election period is from 23 May to 26 May. Because according to our regulations it is to be a day off from work, it will be May 26th, Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u126	There are no more questions to ask. Thank you very much. [[Head of the National Election Office Magdalena Pietrzak: Thank you.]] I inform you that the president, your boss or your boss... has undertaken to respond in writing to Senator Libicki. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Wcisła.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The changes proposed to the electoral code are a classic newcomer's triumph. Under the pretext of simplifying the electoral system in the elections to the European Parliament, changes have been made which will de facto change the electoral outcome in favour of large parties, and thus also, and perhaps above all, of Law and Justice. The Civic Platform is likely to benefit from this, but unlike the governing party and I'll remind you. The Civic Platform does not want to win elections by manipulating elections and at the expense of smaller parties. Therefore, we radically cut off from such methods, thinking that no change in the electoral system resulting in changes in the electoral result should apply in the forthcoming elections, and especially in the elections which will take place in a few months, for a simple reason: not to be accused of manipulation, the aim of which is to win the election by the party making the change. What do I think is manipulation? On the fact that formally maintaining the principle of a 5% electoral threshold, the threshold is actually introduced from a dozen to more than 20%. In my district, in the Podlasie-Warminian constituency, the threshold it will be 20.8% effective. At such a threshold, representatives of the parties or electoral committees to which one in five, one in six Poles, will not receive mandates, these Poles will not have their representative in the European Parliament, and the votes of a large number of voters will be wasted, even worse, because they will pass on to candidates from the strongest parties, clearly lying to the election result. It is the result of dividing Poland into 13 electoral districts and replacing the national district with them. This decision essentially eliminates the proportionality of the electoral result, which is real in multi-ndat districts. In the case of Poland, it is possible to reach the 5% electoral threshold required by European law in elections to the European Parliament according to research to treat the whole country as 1 electoral district or to divide it into no more than 3 Dividing the country into 13 electoral districts raises this threshold to 16.5%. This is against the intention of European law and the principle of proportionality... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Please keep your phones quiet, because it's bothering you.]] ...if it's not formal, it's definitely real. Even if, as Senator Bielan said during the debate, another party will succeed in some electoral district, apart from the PiS and the PO, to obtain a electoral mandate, it will be individual cases. Let me remind you that 8 Polish political parties are currently represented in the European Parliament. If the proposed new system were applied, at least 6 of them would not have been given a mandate. These data are based on the scientific research of Arenda Lijfart, which the PiS senators are trying to question here. The problem is that they do not give examples of any other research to support their conclusions. This means, High Senate, that it is not always right to simplify the law. If e.g. We agree that the Penal Code is complicated, so can we simplify it to the principle of innocent and apply one penalty to all guilty? Of course, only an idiot would think it's correct thinking. I will remind you that in the Middle Ages there was a water test: who, thrown into the water, sailed out, he was guilty, who drowned, was innocent. We ridicule this principle, but this simplification comes down to it. The novelty of this solution is that the PiS does not formally eliminate the principle of a 5% electoral threshold. Technically, because in fact this principle is impossible to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee meeting tried to protest against this joke, but I will repeat this joke without giving a name, because it is appropriate for this situation. In a well-known joke it is said that in a totalitarian country it was allowed to go abroad unfettered. The problem is that there is a requirement to reach 90 years and have parents' personal consent to leave. [[That's not adequate.]] That's very adequate, Senator. That's very adequate. Because you're talking about a 5% electoral threshold that's not available, just as it's impossible to get a visa to leave if you're 90 years old and you still have to get your parents' personal consent. Similarly, a 5% threshold for a revised electoral ordination to the European Parliament can be reached. And on behalf of the Senators of the Civic Platform, I can say that we are protesting such changes in the electoral order because they will de facto counterfeit the election result. And it's not just the elections to the European Parliament. Because we're about to find out that the PiS is gonna want to manipulate the electoral districts in the event of national parliament elections. And thus achieve a different electoral result, beneficial for this party. I repeat: if you want to make any changes to the electoral code or to the electoral code, you have to tell the truth about their consequences and convince the citizens, not lie about the fact that there is a 5% electoral threshold and the principle of proportionality of the election result. I am also talking about this because there are many supporters, e.g. one-mandate electoral districts. Good. They have the right to persuade this electoral system. But they also have to take responsibility for the negative effects. And you're trying to talk about the principle of proportionality, the 5% electoral threshold, but in practice. .. apply completely different rules. Second line. Changes in the electoral system should be made with the principle that they will not be in force in the forthcoming elections in order not to be accused of trying to manipulate the election result. None of these conditions were met in this case. I therefore ask the senators to reject this project so that you are not accused of trying to manipulate the electoral system in order to win the elections to the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u128	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is trying to show us here that these changes are not so deep that actually the principle which has so far ruled, the principle of proportionality, will not be shaken and that these changes are made to improve the really not the best ordination that is in force today. But the consequences of what you do not want to tell citizens, most of the Law and Justice, will be exactly the same as in our Senate, where theoretically, as you tried to bring it out of Marshal Bielan, after all, everyone can be, and in fact there are only Law and Justice and Platform. Previously, it was mostly, in identical proportions, the Platform and former Law and Justice and somewhere the only free electron, Marshal Borowski, is really an example that you can... that you can. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But why the crawling around?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Still free.]] [[Voice from the room: Working.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Using the word "clinging," Mr. Marshal, I wanted to relax the atmosphere and highlight the magnificence of your presence in this Chamber. And right now, we need to make it clear to the voters who, as it happens, do not want to vote for either the Platform or the Law and Justice... Dear Citizens, Elections, if you have another idea about who is to represent you in the European Parliament, you are being deprived of the possibility of having the representative you wish to have. And the question is, how do you possibly make such changes, then it's a question of the type that was earlier: an egg or a chicken?. All of a sudden, we force such an arrangement to have only two groups. And theoretically, of course. As some of you have said here, Maybe somebody will come together and the left with the right hand will create the exotic coalition that Italians are running right now. But I'm not sure that's what we're talking about. Therefore, I would prefer to know first what the consequences will be and what we really want in Poland. Do we want a bipolar political scene? Do citizens want to have a bipolar political scene, or do they want to have this scene more distracted? And I think that without consulting the citizens about whether they want to have one or another reality and political system, we are doing something in an extremely undemocratic way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First note. We're talking about the law, which is certain. Let's call it - Standards, regulations. We should be less concerned with utilitarianism. Please note that in your statements I am speaking here and I am addressing the Civic Platform all the time saying: "Effectives, effects, consequences," is it worth it for us, or is it not worth it for us?" So let's start with the law. The question is: is there a uniform ordination for the European Parliament for all countries? There isn't. As you can see, European countries, either not mature yet, countries of the European Union, or state that such an ordination is not necessary. They are free to do so. From what we've been told, there are two rules. The principle of proportionality must be maintained, and this one is preserved in the case of three-mandate districts, the smallest possible ones in our law... are to be. And then there's the second rule, the 5% threshold. But this is a formal threshold, surely European Union law does not operate an effective threshold because it is a variable number in every election, in every country. An effective threshold may not be included in the legislative act. The question is therefore: do we meet the formal conditions? Yeah, I think so. We're scared here that we'll probably be the only country that doesn't meet the conditions. Well, it's not. So far, four countries have definitely several-mandate districts, and their territory is not one big district. France goes away from this, but for several terms it held elections and no one questioned these elections, did not question them. The question is this: can we have our electoral ordination to the European Parliament? As you can see, European law does not prohibit this, there are only two rules. And some countries use it for historical reasons, because of other conditions, for example. nationality, as is the case with Belgium. But they use them, no one scares them. Is it only Poland so distinguished that it cannot have its electoral ordination? Maybe so, but no one's ever proved to me why. That's the first line. The second point is the argument here that this ordination will serve to concrete, Petrify the political scene. I would rather use the word "ordering," because this process, if you use the word "detonation." Well, it has a pejorative nature, that word. If you use the word "ordering," the connotations are positive. This is an objective process. You can judge it differently, but you can't say that by definition it's negative. That's one thing. I believe that and here I would ask you to think about those who say otherwise. That the elections to the European Parliament do not concrete anything. Why not? Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the elections to the European Parliament e.g. new political groups do not participate. We have four types of elections: local, parliamentary, presidential and European. Is there a uniform political representation on the national scale before the local elections? I've never heard of anything like that. There's been some rehearsals, I think the local league was called, failed. Local elections do not lead to political existence, whether in the form of an association, a national electoral committee or a political party. Local elections consume this political state, this political arrangement, which is already at the time of the election. What is it like for parliamentary elections? Of course, yes, there are new creatures. Some of them get seats and continue in the Sejm or on the political stage 1 and 2, maybe more term of office. And that's the feature of the parliamentary elections. There are also presidential elections. They sometimes create a new political force, a change of structure. Here's a simple example of these elections: the Kukiz election committee15. But where did he come from? It was based on supporters and participants... maybe not so many participants as those who organized presidential elections for Paweł Kukiz. That's where the move came from. And now he exists on the political stage. Another historical example: elections in 1995, the start of Prime Minister Olszewski, the merger of the electoral committees resulted in the movement of reconstruction of Poland, a political party. So that the presidential elections sometimes lead to a change of political structure. What about the European elections? Well, give me an example that just before the European elections, there is a committee that fights, gets seats and then continues on the political stage. Maybe he is, but I don't recall him. So don't tell me this is for the Petrification of the political scene. This is simply indifferent, the outcome of the European elections is indifferent to the political scene in the sense that nothing new will trigger anything. What's different is parliamentary elections and sometimes presidential elections. Now, the most important thing. Unfavourable Here's the phrase... Everyone's fighting for these little parties. I mean, not everyone on this side, just on that side. But it's important to be clear that the stakeholders have come up with such a beautiful word recently in the language. There is much more in these elections. I see at least 4 groups here: first, a single voter; second, voters living in a given area, in a region or, wider, in a district; third, a political party; fourthly, Poland as a whole. Now let's see if the ordination that is right now, but also the one that is to be, is beneficial for a single voter. Yeah, well, somebody said you could see it after the turnout. A single voter doesn't understand the ordination at all, which is right now. He voted for a person, a large number of votes got that person, and the ticket got another... Or, he voted in Bialystok, and the ticket got the one from Silesia. Can you explain this to a single voter? That is the present ordination. There may be so many cases that there will be only 1 representative of this district in a given district. That was the case, ladies and gentlemen, that the big districts had over-representation, had eight seats each, and some had only one or two. And now we guarantee they'll have three. What about the principle that is very important for voters, closeness, contact with their MEP, the MEP? When he is closer to him: how is he elected in the district and represented by this district, or how is he elected in Warsaw and represented by Warsaw? Why are you... So, yes, you understood the ordination... In the simplest way, let me put it this way: now we will choose MEPs as we choose MEPs to the Polish Sejm. And that's what everyone's gonna understand. It might increase attendance. We don't know what it's gonna be like. Please ask someone to mention 3 MEPs... no, 2 MEPs, because there are so many at the moment, either from their own district or from their own voivodship. Well, ask me that. And you will know what this ordination threatens, the consequences it has on the political stage and on the contacts of the electorate with his representative. There's a question that we're talking about favor or disadvantage here. Is it better for the voters: new or old? I think our new one is more beneficial to the voters. That should do it. Second line. A group of voters lived in a given area, in a constituency... It is usually voivodship, 2 voivodships. Only in the case of Mazowieckie one district is Warsaw and the surroundings of Warsaw, and the other is the rest of Mazowsze. The question is whether a district should have its representatives. Well, yes, because some of the problems... Well, the Union itself says that there are regional problems. And the EU money Who's splitting it up? Districts, or actually regions, or voivodships? In part, in a large percentage, the voivodship. [[Mostly.]] And why you can't, for example. control this division in voivodships, if there is no... That's what he's threatening. It has a representative in a given district and cannot be controlled by this distribution of funds. I'm not talking about state control, I'm talking about European. The question is, what is better for a group of voters as a certain entity in a given district: a new ordination or an old one? I believe it is new because there is a guarantee that there will be at least 3 MEPs in a given district and that the MEPs will certainly be from different sides of the political scene. It also matters. The third point, and that's what you're talking about, because when you say "unfavorable," it's supposed to be for political parties... Yes, it is. It's not a question of benefit or not... This is a matter, as I said at the outset, of an objective trial. The new ordination reduces the number of political parties, and for some it can only be theoretically unfavourable, because after all... Who's gonna stop these little parties? I mean, a party with less support, maybe I used the wrong word to join a coalition and be in the election together? You're assuming that Law and Justice will win the election for sure. I, of course, don't disagree with courtesy, but it can be different. If all the opposition unites, according to the current polls, the opposition will have these 2 out of 3 seats in a given district. Then unite. Let's go to work, countrymen! Well, that's what it is. This is indeed a process, this is an objective process. But using the adjective here doesn't work... You need to know clearly what you're talking about. It is only from one point of view that it is detrimental to the political scene, for the transparency of the political scene. And finally the fourth interested party, this is Poland as a whole. Which ordination is better for the country, for us, for Poles? I say it's new. Do you know why? Indeed, if the majority of the districts are three-mandate, and so it will be, they will be small, theoretically and practically more possible, but not necessarily that the European Parliament will get 2, up to 3 committees, so to speak, let's call it short: the parties, they can also be coalitions. This means that they will be represented in the sense that we should assume... Let it be 30 MEPs from the PiS, 20 or close to the Civic Platform, possibly from a committee that will be created together with the Platform, and 1, 2 depending on whether there are 51 mandates or 52 mandates from other groups. Is that good or bad for Poland? I think it's better, because according to the old ordination there were a few groups, but they were few. They were getting to the European Parliament and each of them headed in their direction, and the voice of the Polish representative from the group was weak, he did not count in the club representation at European level. And now they will be, let us assume, only two groups, but if it is 30 people, not 15 or 10, then automatically the force of such a group, abstracting from what it will be, in its European grouping, in its factions or in the European Parliament will be greater. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you have recovered from this view that Europe is such a theoretical structure, where everyone is equal and everyone is free. No, every European country clings to itself, I apologise for the expression, and how strong the representation of a country in the European Parliament is also of importance. I will say that, abstracting from other factors, I prefer to have a strong Polish representation consisting of 2 groups rather than a weak one composed of 5. The new order gives us a chance. Since the most important is the interest of Poland and the most important is the interest of the voter as a single person, and for these reasons the new ordination is certainly beneficial, I think that you should not oppose it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The electoral code governs, among others, the principles of the elections to local government, the national Parliament, the European Parliament and this is a specific law requiring great legislative diligence. Changes to the electoral code should be made in advance and preferably in political consensus. It is good if the fundamental changes that are being implemented concern not those elections that are coming, but the next elections. As it was with changes in the electoral ordination concerning the local government, we remember. Last month, as part of the next amendment, we deleted from the law, among others. registering elections and counting votes using webcams. We knew there would be another change being made... what the effects of these changes would be, we'd know in three months. Here we were critical... I mean, we're gonna find out or we're not gonna find out. This House of the Supreme Court will decide on this subject on the occasion of the amendment of the Supreme Court Act. • whether the elections were held in accordance with the law. The decision will therefore belong to the Supreme Court Chamber. Now, at a rapid pace, and that is 10 months before the elections, we are changing, that is to say, you are changing the electoral code for elections to the European Parliament. The project was submitted by the PiS Group. Work in the Sejm, a lot of amendments, then an emergency commission, again a lot of amendments... And finally, the project came to us. The Civic Platform wants to participate in parliamentary work, in elections to Parliament, but What I've already said We want to participate in this on a fair basis. This ordination does not give any chance of proportionality to all electoral committees, which can be said to be almost 100%. Those who exceed the 5% electoral threshold may not get a mandate. This law gives the big committees a chance, above all. We talked here about how this simulation looked like based on previous choices that had already taken place. This threshold is now practically raised. Yes, we can argue that 15% that 20% ... About this limit depending on the electoral district, whether there will be 3 seats or 6 seats. You could say that this law eliminates certain shortcomings of ordination. We were talking about this wandering mandade. It was the PiS group that prepared this draft law amending the law. Yes, the ordination could be improved, but the two basic conditions could be maintained: the proportionality condition and the electoral threshold. But as we can see, it wasn't proposed. And, of course, there's gonna be some disturbances about that. With three or six tickets in the constituency... There is nothing to talk about here, there is no question of proportionality, which stems from EU law. And here we can rely on the opinions of the experts, the constitutionalists who spoke on this matter. Minimum ten parking tickets, maybe more... That's a close-up to these thresholds. What Senator Borowski has proposed is even better, because the bigger the district, the greater the chance of proportionality. Ladies and gentlemen, could this ordination be arranged differently? Well, you could have, but that's the kind of parliamentary project that was made in the Sejm. In conclusion, I would like to say that this project was actually prepared on the knee, badly and sloppyly, as was seen during the seymical work. Well, a lot of corrections, a lot of corrections were. I had the opportunity to observe the work of this emergency committee because I went to see what the deliberations were like. What was the support given to this project? In the Sejm he received support only from Members of the PiS. I said in the beginning that such changes require legislative diligence and political consensus. That's a normal rule. This is something that we're working on well in advance, not at the last minute. It is possible to predict in advance what interest will be given to the elections to the European Parliament after these changes. We cannot support this law because it is dishonest and presumes that the threshold will not be reached. We will, of course, conflict, once again, with the European Parliament. Well, because there's no doubt that this is going to be taken lightly. Ladies and gentlemen, as short as I can give you this example... Senator Wcisla gave one example and I was thinking that maybe I could give you another example to illustrate this. Good job offer for students; well, you could also say about doctors... But let's say for the students. That's a great offer. A requirement? Graduation. There are 52 job vacancies at the plant, let's call it symbolically "PE". There are 52 seats available. The condition for recruitment is 20 years of experience in the profession. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's understandable and clear. That's the 5% threshold. The one we were talking about. That's why... Let me sum up: a bad project, a bad bill, prepared without consensus and with great exposure to the fact that we will be in trouble, once again and at our own request, with the European Parliament, with the European Union. Because European law makes it clear that... there are some derogations that Senator Czerwiński was talking about. Yeah, I served them, too. There are three countries... But you have to tell us what the arguments are there. We talked about these three countries: Belgium, where the language matter was decided, etc. There are, of course, some derogations. But the senator no longer said that although this is not one district, as in most European countries except these 3 because France is already one electoral district... You didn't tell the senator what the proportions were, what the threshold was. effective, etc. etc. Senator Borowski's proposal is heading in that direction to make it so that the bigger the electoral district, the smaller this threshold is. But writing the 5% threshold, according to the law, and saying, oh, sorry, we're fine, we have a 5% threshold in the bill... I think it's a student job offer. I think you've already realized that you can write things down. I don't know a student who has 20 years of professional experience when he's 25. Unless he started in kindergarten. Well, maybe these things happen. And that's why it's possible, too, that, as Senator Borowski said, in the 6-mandate district... but let me remind you, on average, that's a 3.9 mandate. Because we have 16 districts for 52 MPs. So that's an average of 3.9. And in this big circle... Well, big... That's exactly what you're saying: in this 6-mandate district, it's not a big electoral district. In fact, it may happen that someone from another party will get a ticket. It's possible. But simulation is something that needs to tell us what might possibly happen. That's why the attack on our Legislative Office that prepared the wrong opinion, the Legislative Office, which after all works all the time and its task is just to show To us, what are the drawbacks... We can't, and we shouldn't. We're not gonna order the Legislative Bureau to draw up exactly the opinion we want. No, the opinion must be impartial. We can accept it or not, and we can discuss it. Of course, when it comes to this bill, we clearly say: the law written on the knee, bad and unacceptable. And it will expose us to conflicts with the European Union. If that's what we want, let's vote for it. We don't want that, so we're gonna vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. For the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u135	But I didn't say ten minutes. I said seven, Mr. Marshal. [[It's okay.]] Dura lex, sed lex. Referring to this last statement by Senator Flork, let me remind you that the Ministry of Justice assured us, on the occasion of the changes in the Supreme Court Act, that our warnings regarding the fact that this will have international repercussions have nothing to do with the truth at all and that we are just shredging languages. Well, I remind you of yesterday's ruling by the European Court of Justice, which has just dramatically changed... [[But no, it's good, even very good.]] ...our situation has put our judiciary, our justice system in a very bad situation. We're gonna have problems with that, so I want you to be absolutely sure and take responsibility for it so that your assurances that nothing will happen here are true. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Czerwiński for giving us the opportunity to talk and, above all, for calling us compatriots so warmly today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] So far, the warmest thing was to say that we were the other side of the room or the fifth column. Thank you very much. The senator also used such a phrase that we would have our ordination. That one was hers, too. She had a 100% agreement with the senator. A lot of flaws, but she was hers, and no one was imposing it on us. Well, unless we use alien force to call your patron Giertych, whose name has been mentioned many times in the context of this ordination, which is about to go down in history. You accused us of being so utilitarian about it, and that's the law, let's talk about the law. Well, I would like to remind the senator that the senator's statement in 2/3 treated this utilitarianism. Because you, quite rightly, are proposing... And I can agree with that because you said that this division would allow us to use these mandates more wisely, to separate them differently between these larger groups. The problem is... and you've done that blink to us many times: well, we'll share it. I would like to state quite strongly that we do not want what you are offering us, because in order to divide it better and wiser, as you propose, we must first make a leap to the bank of votes, and we do not want to do it with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are different concepts in this discussion. I've heard of an objective trial here. It's purely Marxist, but that's not what's important. It is important that the objective process is called the proposal of the ordination which PiS created and which was certainly accepted by the PiS management. For some, this is an objective process, but not for me. To me, it's this. It's just hypocrisy, it's her Himalayas... An objective process that creates ordination... This one was created by LPR, this one is created by PiS. I have seen the reaction of Vice-Marshal Bielan to the critical opinion of the Senate's Legislative Office, and I believe that such reactions are inappropriate. I'm beginning to suspect that Mr. Vice Marshal Bielan had something to do with working on this ordination. [[Voice from the room: This is...]] I don't know if that's a false suspicion, but I think so. I think so, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr. Vice-Marshal. Each ordination has its advantages and disadvantages. We're discussing this. Experts know that, and so do we, the parliamentarians. There are advantages and disadvantages. The proportional ordination has its advantages and disadvantages. Ordination with 1-mandate or 2-mandate circles also has its advantages and disadvantages. I'm not gonna count them. When it comes to minority or minority ordination, it is elected closer to the voter, but it does not take into account the votes of some voters. With proportional ordination, it's the other way around. She accurately reflects the electoral preference of the voters, but is chosen much further away from the voter. The circles are much bigger because they have to be bigger. Ordinations have their advantages and disadvantages. There's no perfect ordination. But this proposal, however, causes... That's my thesis, maybe I'm overly suspicious. In this shape and in a situation that is today, she kind of prefers the PiS. It's not weird. We all know, I told you before, that the PiS created this ordination. And he created it for his business. This is not good practice because ordination should be proposed and changed in consensus. If there is resistance, and there is resistance, also Platforms, although it is said that we will be rewarded here, because ordination creates a 2-party system... I think that a 2-party system would be a bad thing in Poland. We have a multiparty system. It's always good when one party doesn't rule undividedly. This is good for Poland and good for this party. Coalition agreements make it difficult to make decisions in a dictatorial way, not to take into account the reasons of others and create a new situation, a new Poland, a new system. I believe that targeting the creation of a 2-party system is not good for Poland. It is clear that electoral ordination is as if it were defined by the electoral system. Maybe not right away, not from the next election, but from the next, after the change of order, this system determines. And for me it is quite clear that, after the change of electoral ordination to local governments, after the change of electoral ordination to Europarlment, it will be the turn to change the ordination to our parliament, to the Sejm. That's the way it's gonna be. And it's going to be a change in the same direction. They will be tested in European elections. So we've got three to six electoral districts-- well, let's say 100 electoral districts, just like the Senate. The argument will be clear: as with the Senate, this mess will be reduced, that it is going to the Senate in other districts and to the Seym in others. Well, what's with the mess? We've got to get rid of this. And that's where the next work is going to go. So I'm predicting what the next step will be when it comes to electoral ordination. The ordination of the Sejm will probably also be changed. And this, of course, creates a situation of domination of 2 parties. But the Platform doesn't want that. Not because of its interests, but because of the interests of Poland. So I'm talking about the fact that you have to stop with some hypocrisy. Of course, politics isn't math, yet. Maybe not as much as in science. It is important to say what this is about, what the consequences will be. Well, you can't use arguments like those we heard yesterday after the vote to reject the referendum from prominent PiS politicians who said: we abstained, we didn't vote against. Although the abstentions were treated as votes against in this vote. So there's a limit to hypocrisy somewhere. Let's not climb into her Himalayas. I believe that this draft of ordination should be rejected. And I support the motion for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I can't answer you, I can't speak in the discussion. But I want to tell you that this project is a parliamentary project... [[The voice from the room:]] This is a parliamentary project, Mr. Marshal. But there is no electoral ordination in Poland that would affect the two-party system more than the Senate ordination. And I have a question for you, Mr. Marshal: how did you behave when 100 one-mandate districts were introduced into the Senate? [[Voice from the room: But we didn't lie about...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Blackbay. There you go. [[...you've crossed the rules. Unfortunately, I can't cross and I won't answer you about it.]] It was a rhetorical question, Mr. Marshal, about hypocrisy. You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of what's going on with the Ordination Act, I think it's already been said, but I'd like to add a few more words here. First of all, again what I brand all the time, i.e. the parliamentary project, widely consulted, a long discussion in Poland, in social forums, but also in every district, in every municipality... A great example: change of ordination 10 months before the election. Well, that's the traditional style of law and justice. During the game 15 minutes before... we change and later we say that this is how the law is created in Poland, because we need to act quickly and efficiently. I would like to say to you that, in terms of good customs, when it comes to creating a law on electoral ordination, it is appropriate that we create a project, we debate widely, there is a government project and this law begins to apply from the next term of office. Now that we're talking about what's relevant to decency... That's what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about. I would also like to disagree... There is no Senator Pociej here, but absolutely, Senator, I do not agree with what you said about the judgment of the Strasbourg Court on this motion. After all, Minister Ziobro said that I quote The position of the government and the operative part of the judgment are similar. That's how you approach lawmaking and law commenting. Marshal Borusewicz set an example of how you commented, most likely, on the results of the referendum vote. I'm not talking about what your TV was doing anymore. Who was the main source of evil? Guess who, according to public television, the television of all Poles, was the source of evil when it comes to referendums? [[The devil.]] Devil, yes, sir. And this devil's name is Senator Civic Platform. That's because the Civic Platform voted against, it didn't pass the referendum. That's what TV says, and I'm not saying you said that before. I know you're reasonable people, and you know what you did yesterday. And it's the same with this ordination. Mr. Senator gave here very nice examples, such as for Poles, for people from regions, from Poland and still in the world... And of course this holds to some logic. Well, I'm sorry, I'm not sure. That's logical, Mr. Senator. Only that you set such an example, that 30 mandates are obtained as a result of this rule of law and justice, the 22nd Platform and somebody else is getting scattered there. All right, gather around, concentrate, and get to work. Let's get to work, gentlemen! What do you want to do? [[The opposition...]] You want to do nothing and get those 30 tickets. That's one thing. This is an ordination done under the temporary support of Law and Justice in Poland. That's my assessment, Senator. You may disagree with her, but you're very good at discussing things with her. Secondly, I'd like to say that if this were to happen, don't give God, Rzeczpospolita Dear, that the PiS will get 30 seats... With whom will you in this European Parliament, Senator, form a coalition? It's not like the British are gonna be here anymore. Lonely island of freedom, 30 great in the European Parliament! You will broadcast such a tone that the whole Parliament will only listen to you. You'll have so much to say that ho, ho, ho. You will offer, everyone will listen to you and implement it. This will be the wisdom of these 30, do not give God, the parliamentarians of Law and Justice. I'm going to refer to this better representation. If we really want a better representation, it might be worth discussing which ordination is better. Mostly, mixed or proportional. Maybe it's worth discussing. No, you're traditionally bringing a parliamentary project. We know where he came from. It was just by accident that a Member was in Novgorodka, picked up, brought it, signed it, and we have it in the Senate today. That's the reality. There's nothing to lie about. After all, none of you in the creation of this project, as I know life, participated, and did not even know that it was arising. And now let's talk about what Senator Florek was talking about. After all, if someone gets 19,20%, if someone is an authority in a given region and almost wins, they won't come in anyway. Well, he's not coming in because he's not in a big block, no matter what. Therefore, you can find counter-arguments, Mr. Senator, concerning your arguments. Finally, Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Poles and those who are preparing for the election will show wisdom not after injury but before damage. It will be an impulse to unite and create common lists. Let's thank the authors that they're working so hard to get one democratic... It may not be a party, but a group or block that will oppose those who are destroying Poland. And I hope that this will be one of the arguments for creating such common aggregates. And I'm going to take a second example from history. In 2006, the magnificent coalition of PiS, the League of Polish Families and Self-Defense, just like you now, was figuring out how to outsmart local governments. And what did you come up with, ladies and gentlemen, shortly before the election? Blocking the letter. It takes off separately, but it declares blocking the letter. Votes were counted for PiS, Self-defense and the League of Polish Families together, but... [[Voice from the room: But it's supposed to be separate.]] ...to be separate, and everyone there was getting something. They thought they outsmarted us. That's it, smartass! But it's not why a man has the head to wear a hat, it's to find an anti-delict on the kind of delicacies you create. There's a law in physics: F = -F. And we used it as follows: we created 8 committees in Kwidzyn, we blocked ourselves... [[Bravo.]] ...and we won in juggles. We've never won like this before. [[Bravo.]] [[Applause]] And you will see, this will result in a clear defeat of Law and Justice, which I wish mostly Poland, Poles, but unfortunately I must say... [[Bad wishes don't come together.]] ...that I wish that this would happen to you as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u140	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski for the second time, so five minutes. [[It's so great.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like you to listen to Senator Blackbay for a moment. I don't know how to call him an angel or a prophet? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will not talk about the times and events of the future and the uncertain. Let me say this: I'm sure you didn't understand me well, Marshal Borusewicz, because when I talked about an objective trial, I was talking about the effects of particular types of ordination. I did not claim that the introduction of a particular type is an objective process. It's an intentional activity. Unfortunately, Mr. Marshal, to say that this is a communist activity, because that's how I understood it... Well, then you're the first one to join this commune, creating an ordination for the Senate. That's the first line. The second point, of a repeat nature. Let's leave all these ornaments behind, see if there's any effect. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis for this, and it can be said historically that elections to the European Parliament do not demolish, do not change the political scene. At least that's what happened so far. The same forces that are before the election are after the election. This is the role of elections to the Polish Parliament and possible presidential elections. That's one thing. And then there's the second line. We see the elections differently, actually the purpose of the elections to the European Parliament. You want representatives of Poland, fragmented, introduced into Parliament, into individual factions and carried out a European task, i.e. power individual political groups with representatives from Poland. And I think we should make that representation. It is not about whether it is the PiS, whether it is the Platform, who will have the majority, it will turn out, it will be fortunately decided by the voters, we not the strong representation, which will be a real force in the European Parliament, which will take care of Polish interests, as we should take care of Polish interests in all positions, in the European Commission, in other bodies and bodies. The same should be true in the European Parliament. That's what we're really different about. That's the basis, that's the only thing that needs to be made clear. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u142	Thank you very much. Senator, Marshal Borowski. [[That could be a good statement, too. Historically...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I must say, I don't know much more pleasure than listening to Senator Czerwinski. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Maybe to the point.]] But why did you get upset? I mean it, absolutely. I'm being absolutely serious. Because Senator Czerwiński always analyzes the subject, divides it into parts and discusses each part separately. Only, Senator, that there is such a saying, actually there are a few sayings in this matter, one thing is: to see a tree and not to see a forest. And I'll give you another one from the Napoleonic era: there are a thousand reasons why we can't accept your army. He said the mayor to Napoleon. First of all, we don't have cannons. And that's enough. Your argument about why this new ordination is better... This may be the subject of some discussion, some consideration, there are no obstacles, but the state of these considerations has not begun at all. You're working ex post. If electoral ordination is changing, and electoral ordination is, you can say, the basis of a democratic system, it must be done in a democratic way. It is necessary to present such a project publicly, it is necessary to leave time for some discussion, there is an opposition for the discussion of experts, they are ruling, and therefore of course everyone should take part in it. And then report a project. It wasn't all there. All the arguments you're making here right now, no one's calculated. I've read the discussion in the Sejm, the statements of Mr. Rules, Mr. Schreiber. None of them spoke of anything like you. You are simply adding arguments to what has been presented at the moment. And since not so long ago we have witnessed an attempt to change the local government, in which it was going to do the same thing, i.e. to create small electoral districts... I guess that argument doesn't work out there anymore, does it? It is no longer appropriate to argue that there are strong groups in the Seyms, because if there are strong groups in the Seyms, we will rule better. No! Of course, the point was, they wanted to take it. Using such and not another state of public support, I am acting in power by means of an electoral ordination. That's the truth. And this is the worst sin, one of the worst sins in the history of the judiciary that can be blamed on the ruling crew. With regard to the ordination of the European Parliament, this is obviously not about taking power, because in the European Parliament we do not have power, we are just one of the circles. That's what I'm talking about. That's what the sparrows are talking about. So that no parties will appear on the side, which will receive the votes of the PiS, so that the party of the Director's father does not appear, so that, by chance, Minister Ziobro or Minister Gowin does not choose to appear separately. And that was the main reason. Except by the way, by the way, you're actually killing other smaller parties. As far as all these arguments are concerned, which I say can be considered, the problem is that the European Council's decisions on this matter are clear. We can't discuss whether the majority is better or not... etc. The European Union has adopted a system and this system is saying that elections are to be proportionate and that the maximum threshold is to be 5%. The Lord, Senator, says, "Who will prove to me that they are not proportional?" I'm gonna say I guess I proved it, but, I guess, you weren't in the O.R. at the time. I think I've proven it. Are they proportional? Well, you could say they are, because when there are three tickets, you put out letters and they're proportional... But I can ask you another question here: if we did the 2-mandate district, would it be proportional or not? I'm sure we know that 1-mandates aren't proportional. What about 2-mandates? Well, proportional. But that leads to absurdity. The 3-mandate regions are very weak in meeting the requirement of proportionality. Very weak. But there is also the question of the electoral threshold. Well, it's 5%. The electoral threshold is pure fiction. And you know it. This is pure fiction in the case of 3-, 4- and even 5-mandate circles. We figured it out here. Therefore, this is the main criterion and this criterion is not met and all other arguments remain sideways at the moment. And there's nothing to tell here about the fact that it's all about better representation, about Lublin having three tickets, not two tickets, etc., and so on, because you know that's not what it's all about when you change this ordination. Such arguments practically did not fall here. This hypocrisy that was mentioned here is indeed, well, sad. She's upset. At the same time, you say, well, unite. I must say that, as far as I am concerned, I have repeatedly, also from this speaker, talked about the need for an agreement of pro-constitution and democratic forces in Poland. Only that if we accept today with joy the fact that the PiS pushes such an ordination and we say, well, that's very good, then we will unite... Well, to be honest, Mr. Senator, I was a little surprised that you didn't use that argument when you went out on the stand right now, and he didn't say, "Well, what's going on, gentlemen, after Senator Blackbay was happy." What are you criticizing? Well, I'd like to say that maybe that's the effect of, and I hope it is, and I hope it is. It's just that it would be forced. In a well-functioning democratic system where governments with an absolute majority do not assassinate democratic institutions, there is no need for such coalitions. We're in a forced situation, so hopefully we'll make it. But trying to be politically corrupt... Because in these delicate statements we hear: but what do you mean? This is addressed to the Civic Platform: what are you talking about, we're going to split up somehow It's true, isn't it? 'Cause we're gonna take... well, maybe we're gonna take a little bit more, that's true, but you're gonna take it, and you're gonna be stronger when it comes to your group, and so on. Well, it shouldn't be like that. I can't speak for the Platform, but I'm glad that the Platform's position on this matter is clear, because it would be bad if it were different. So, in short, you always have to ask the question: qui bono? If the authority, if the ruling group changes the electoral ordination and this does not apply to the technique of the type of camera, transparent urns, etc., and does not do so in public discussion, then it is known that it does so under itself, and this must be criticised and must be regarded as a violation of democratic order. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u144	Thank you very much, Senator Florek... [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u145	I just want one sentence to correct... I didn't corrupt anybody here... [[Turn on the mike, please.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] I didn't do anything like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u146	Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u147	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, when a law is introduced, the effects of the changes need to be anticipated. The IPN Act, for example. We're remembering what it looked like. There is such a thing as an impact assessment of the regulation, where it should be documented, what the change will bring, what effects. This project was generally without consultation, without public hearing, at a rapid pace, submitted by a group of Members, with a number of amendments. Although it was filed ten months before the election, because, as I say, six months before the ordination shouldn't change... Although we remember that when it comes to self-governments, we have recently changed and it was not important that it is no longer 6 months old, but it is less because it turned out that these changes are irrelevant, insignificant. What's with the cameras! Why register it? Robots a lot, etc. It's a minor change, so it could have been changed. That's why I'm asking you a question, because I'm pretty sure we're gonna have the same thing with this ordination. There will be a moment when you come to the conclusion. - I'm sure it's not today. That this ordination must be changed. I am convinced that you will surely win these elections to the European Parliament. Just like you won yesterday's referendum. There is no doubt that this is because 10 voted in favour, 52 abstained and 30 opposed. So most of the votes were in favor. You won this election yesterday, and the threshold was 47%. Yeah, but what's on the fret?! The thresholds don't matter how it turns out. Is 5% , or 16.5% ? What's that? These are just thresholds written somewhere out there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to proceed, so it is not possible to amend such important rules as electoral regulation without consensus, without proper preparation and in this manner. Therefore, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of this, I promise I will remind you of how I will be on this platform when we change this electoral order. Because we're gonna change it, we're gonna correct it, yeah, we're gonna correct it, we're gonna correct it. Besides, it's not just this bill, because probably today or tomorrow I can talk about some of the things that you're always talking about, that they're great, that they're good, that they have to be that way. Well, I'll remind you in my next speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u148	I'm so informative, Mr. Senator. 'Cause you weren't a senator back then. I'll say that one-mandate districts in the Senate elections... [[Yes...]] ...100 districts in the Senate elections were introduced in December 2010, 10 months before the 2011 elections, and introduced by the Senators of the Civic Platform. Please, Senator Grodzki... [[You want to discuss it, it's...]] Amendment 183, you can check the names of the senators from your club who were senators at the time. Please, Senator Grodzki... [[Can I do it in the same mode as you?]] There you go, Mr. Marshal. [[No, no, no...]] There you go, Mr. Marshal. [[No, I'm not breaking the rules.]] If you tell me how you voted, then... well, you have an opportunity. [[Mr. Marshal, I will not break the rules.]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] Good. You're welcome, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! I can speak from my own experience because I ran for Europarlment. Starting from the third place, I made the second result in the West Pomeranian-Oruskie district, but unfortunately, this second ticket went to Silesia because there the locomotive of the list made a great result and this ticket traveled there. So, theoretically, it would be a temptation, because according to this order, I would be a Europarliamentary. [[It was the Platform's idea.]] But... but... I am not surprised even that this has been reported by the Members. You can see that Members want to become MEPs, so they have prepared an election project designed to measure themselves, a project of ordination. It's understandable, they want to move to Europarlment. I'm just a little surprised we're taking him so lightly. In English there is such a concept of gerrymandering, i.e. sewing electoral districts under your political power. Except the English have already done it, as a mature democracy, and just as the French have created legal mechanisms to avoid it. Maybe we should learn from them. But to be quite serious, the electoral ordination should be constructed in such a way as to ensure the most rational representation of the whole nation. Poland is a beautiful country, Poland is a diverse country, in which there are people thinking left-wing, in which there are people thinking right-wing, in which there are people listening to Radio Maryja and confessing other religions, in which there are people under the rainbow flag and nationalists... [[But it's gonna start now.]] ...and ordination should give everyone a reasonable chance to choose. Because Poland will always be diverse and what we need is that all these people remember that they are Poles, show respect for one another, respect the law and do not attack one another. This ordination is going in a completely different direction and it is part of a series of actions which are to make Poland one prayer. I don't want to comment on what kind of prayer I think she's weird. But I'd like to say it's never gonna work. The strength of Poland is diversity, creativity. This nation is a great nation and will remain so despite the efforts of those who want to change it for their evil purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u150	Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm wondering one thing. What is the fear of law and justice when it prepares such a bill and such an electoral order? In your rhetoric it is that if you are comfortable to invoke the European countries, you invoke them, and when you are uncomfortable, you invoke them. When you have to show something positive or something in your interest, say 'yes' in France, it is in Hungary, it is in other European countries. Individual senators show how it is in other European countries when it comes to electoral ordination for the European Parliament. In fact, these countries are one big constituency. Ordination in these countries makes it possible for the various political factions to have their chance. And what you have proposed is very simple in building only 2 political blocks. Two and nothing else. I listened to the controversy between Marshal Adam Bielan and Senator Peter Flork. Mr. Marshal is wrong here. Perhaps the first ticket will go somewhere else if there is an interesting candidate or candidate and there will be a accumulation of votes. But even if you were to listen to Marshal Bielan's thoughts about the fact that SLD and PSL may have one ticket or even two tickets... it's a big difference if you have a similar result of five tickets or one. So what's the representation? Since we are talking about diversity, about the fact that different political forces actually have the right to decide, I would like to remind you that the socialist faction in Europe is the second largest faction. By acting in this way, you are cutting off this faction, taking away the opportunity to participate in all those people with left-wing views. What about Kukiz, who has a big parliamentary club today? Under this heading, this club will not have its representatives in the European Parliament. Unless he goes to the election with someone else in one big political block. What Law and Justice have proposed shows great fear. With internal disputes, with what is happening, what we saw yesterday about the referendum, what is happening in the PiS itself and among the coalitionists who are still at the PiS, is the concern of Jarosław Kaczyński or the leadership of Law and Justice that someone in the Euroelection can separate or create a political movement. And actually, with a low turnout And this is, unfortunately, lower than in the elections to the national parliament or presidential elections, other political forces can win these mandates. There is already a famous rumor or information about Macierewicz's party or that Ziobro will take off on his own. Such information appeared very much. I think so. And he doesn't even spend it, because it's bound to happen. That all this change in the electoral order is due to the fact that it is better to escape such an action, such an event than to collide with a reality in which something bad can happen to the PiS. I am surprised because it is these developed democracies that you are referring to, Germany, France, Spain, Portugal or Hungary, which you love so much, that you follow them as to the political system and the exercise of power... There is 1 electoral district and there really different political forces have a chance. Of course, it can also be that such nodding on the field, speaking sports language, can lead to a person nodding, nodding and nodding to death. That's okay, too. Of course, this forces all kinds of difficult things. Marshal Bielan himself admitted in his argument with Senator Flork that perhaps you would create a large political block. You can create it and win this election. It may also happen that the electoral ordination will force political forces to build two political camps. Only the latter, the new one, who will rise up and face the united right, will be very diverse. He will unite many political parties and authorities, especially authorities, which in such elections can bring him success and will bring you defeat. And that is what I wish you, colleagues from the PiS, because such brutal playing with the electoral authority is, in my opinion, something below the democratic standards of the individual countries, and especially in Poland. I don't know why you want to do that, I don't know why you don't allow any amendments and you don't want to discuss it. Yesterday, Minister Mucha, Minister of President Andrzej Duda, allowed polemics, understood this polemics, understood other values, understood another view, and today everything is back to normal again: if someone has another view or another view of the world and is not with the PiS, he is already an enemy and cannot accept his view. And whether you're from the Civic Platform or you're an independent senator, just like Marshal Marek Borowski. It's just not from your package. And if someone isn't from our group, then we can't listen to his opinion, his idea, or his proposal to change this bill. The truth is... And that's where I'm going, Mr. Marshal. That this bill today is really going to give the apparent wins to the Law and Justice. This bill is supposed to make no other force The national, right-wing, conservative side of you will not grow up that with your internal disputes and the fights of bulldogs under the carpet nothing will be born and nothing will threaten the United Right today. That's the point. And it also gives an absolutely internal signal, in order not to confuse, because in a moment, after the elections to the European Parliament, there will be a similar electoral ordination to the national parliament. But, like I said, you can nod and you can nod. And that's what I wish you, Law and Justice colleagues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u152	Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't supposed to speak, but to be honest, the last two voices provoked me a little. First question, Senator Napieralski. Well, talking about rumors, conflicts... Well, that's basically a level of gossip... I could also talk about the rumors and conflicts that they are, say, in the Civic Platform, but that's not good for anything. I assure you, Mr PiS Vice President Antoni Macierewicz is not going anywhere outside the Law and Justice. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We don't care, Senator.]] The second point I would like to draw attention to. There is this charge, which is wrong, that this is a parliamentary project, because Members are going to the European Parliament. Well, what's so strange about the fact that Members might want to run for the European Parliament? Yes, many Members, probably the Senators, will run for the European Parliament as well as the non-members will run for office. And this concerns the Platform, the PiS... Mr Grodzki said he was running for the European Parliament himself. I bet, without knowing your ideas, that there will also be Members and Senators of the Civic Platform on the European Parliament's letters. I may lose, but I think I can make a bet like this. But I'm going back, ladies and gentlemen, to the point. In every country of the European Union, this ordination is slightly different, because there are other countries, because the potential of the population is different, because tradition is different, history is different, and electoral traditions are different. Ladies and gentlemen, I am from Lower Silesia. Lower Silesia plus Opole... well, it's potential like Slovakia. So let's not say that such a big electoral district is a bad thing. I would say that such a constituency is even too big, because it's hard in two voivodships to meet people. And these districts that we have introduced are really very, very big, these are two, sometimes three voivodships... That's the first line. Second line. After all, Senator Czerwiński has proved this to you, the European Union requires only two elements: proportionality and a threshold of up to 5%. And this election order meets these two requirements, meets without any... [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course there's a long discussion about the so-called. effective threshold. I don't want to dwell on it for long, but, first of all, this threshold is very different, and second of all, the 4-, 5-, 6-mandate circles are e.g. in local governments and local electoral committees enter, political parties like Platform, Modern enter. With us, in Jelenia Góra we have 5-, 6-mandate districts and the parties take 2 tickets, sometimes 3 tickets. There is nothing to prevent these smaller electoral committees from entering, even with this electoral order. [[Modern, for example.]] Please? [[Modern...]] But the modern one with you guys is gonna go to the election, right? Well, that's obvious, isn't it? Another element... [[What's with the polemics?]] Another element, ladies and gentlemen, which this ordination implements, is the simplification of the system. None of the Poles, and I think that most politicians, too, do not understand the mechanism of wandering... [[We're not you guys...]] ...a traveling ticket. [[...in a simple way.]] This is the most complicated ordination that applies in Poland. Poles are used, whether in the local elections or the Senate or the Sejm, to the fact that they know how many Members, councillors from a given district choose. In the European Parliament elections, no one knew exactly how many of these mandates would be. In my question to Senator Flork I said: Lublin, according to today's order, chooses 2 MEPs to the European Parliament. I would very much ask Mr. Marek Borowski, who is an econometrician, and he is so well hoping that he can tell us what an effective electoral threshold is out there. [[Where?]] Yeah, in Lublin. [[He's gonna be...]] Come on, tell me. If there are two tickets, don't they take the Platform and the PiS, Mr. Marshal? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, well, well, well. So, by creating a 3-mandate circle, we're theoretically increasing the chances of someone third. When there's two tickets, there's no chance, of course, with those ratings that the Platform and the PiS have to get someone else to take the ticket. And this third ticket always ran away from Lublin. And, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing at the end. That's what I was talking about at the committee meeting. Of course, it is such a question that the smaller the electoral district, the theoretically this threshold to exceed is higher. But it's also happening in the local election, right? There are 3-, 4-, 5-mandate districts in the local elections, and of course the electoral threshold is 5%. , and so-called. effective threshold varies: 8, 9, 10% , depending on how it comes out. And it's nothing new. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] But, ladies and gentlemen, is this a good thing, or is this a bad thing? Of course, there's a consequence that some forces don't catch up and their representatives are gone. But, ladies and gentlemen, no one from the Civic Platform sitting in this room... Or maybe not: none of the Senators of the Civic Platform who were here in previous terms should speak on this subject. Because you're the ones who brought the majority elections to the Senate. [[Applause]] And the effect is that today it's just the PiS and the Platform. [[Ten months before the election, they did it. That's exactly what happened.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, how many voters aren't in the Senate today? [[They did it underneath each other. Ten months before the election...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Senator Napieralski... [[...sign up for the floor.]] ...somehow he didn't want to run with the SLD. [[Because I got kicked out.]] Because he knew he didn't stand a chance. [[How was he supposed to run when he got kicked out?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, you know, they take it, they throw it out, they come in, they come out, I say so. Where are the SLD senators? [[Something, Mr. Marshal...]] Where are the Senators from Kukiz? That is the consequence of your electoral order. [[Because Kukiz didn't show up.]] [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, you have introduced the most eliminating small political entities, which currently function in elections to local governments, whether in elections to... It was we who withdrew from the JOWs in local governments, which you blocked. So make up your mind... [[Bravo!]] ...do we want big... [[The height of hypocrisy.]] ...or small electoral districts. Well, that's a consequence. [[What's with the marshal today?]] [[Mr. Marshal is so weird today.]] [[Quiet, please!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're having a one-on-one discussion, ladies and gentlemen...]] [[Exactly, please...]] [[...one at a time...]] [[Mr. Marshal is a dolphin?]] [[Voice from the room: Shark.]] [[Let's let the senator finish. He's got two more minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say this: this ordination is in accordance with European law... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[A shark more...]] ... 100%. Let's see what the results are. I don't know, maybe the PiS wins, maybe the Platform wins, then we'll know after the election. This electoral ordination is an ordination which people, Poles, voters are able to understand because of the mechanisms contained in it. And I hope... Of course, I don't wish anyone to lose. I wish Law and Justice would win, because it's naturally... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I'm just gonna say... Last sentence, Mr. Senator. Last sentence. Most seats on the basis of this ordination and on the basis of the previous ordination will be won by this election committee, which will win the election. And we're going to win this election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u154	You have a voice, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm short. My esteemed previous speaker... Because we should treat each other with respect, although today one of our fellow Members, and basically the head of the Kukiz club15, gave a show of how not to speak the non-professional language. Let me explain a little bit. It's okay that Members want to get to Europarlment. I even understood them, I said it, you didn't listen to the senator. It's just... Maybe there are people here who want to get to Europarlment. E.g. Mr. Marshal Bielan And you can see it in his eyes and in his behavior today. But these people don't write ordination for themselves. That's the fundamental difference. The fact that they wrote an ordination that gives them the best chance to get to Europarlment... Well, you can call it wishing, but it's understandable because of the flawed human nature. However, the fact that we, as the High Chamber, unreflectively support this project, which Mr. Senator himself criticised in other variants, is... until he wants to quote a classic: do not go this way! Because it really polarizes and petrifies the political scene, and Okay, I'll say it again. Poland is too diverse, too beautiful... This nation deserves to have representative representatives in Europarlamence, and because of this ordination it will not have them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u156	Thank you, Senator. Senator Napieralski will take the floor for the second time. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u157	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing you now. Looking at the past and the history of Minister Macierewicz, I would be concerned if he would create a party, because I must tell you that the number of parties he has assumed since 1989 is impressive. And he often changed parties, often assumed them. Sometimes he entered the Seym with other letters That's what I'm looking at. Sometimes he didn't make it, like he did in 2005... but every now and then he assumed something, so maybe he'll wear it again, and you're just afraid of it. It's just in response to the fact that nothing bad is happening, but rumors are what we're based on. Well, the facts speak for themselves. But, Senator, since it is what you say you appreciate democracy so much, you appreciate diversity so much, so you want all important political forces or important forces that have their place somewhere in Poland and in Parliament, and outside parliament, to have a chance to get to Europarlment and have their representative, why you do not talk about the simplest option that is in most European countries. You're talking about one electoral district, aren't you? The country shall be treated as one electoral district. And it wouldn't be a discussion, it would be very simple. Then political parties, political environments issue their lists, there's an election threshold of 5%. as in most countries, they start lists, show their best candidates, their best candidates, their programme, why they go to the European Parliament, where factions want to sit in this parliament, and there is a choice. You guys are cutting it down today. And don't move any data here, because we are experienced politicians, and we know that the smaller the constituency, especially in the national elections, the greater the division between the two strongest. It's always been, it's always been, and it's going to be, Mr. Senator. That's what happened. Whether the districts to the Senate were double-mandate or single-mandate, they won the strongest. That's what happened in the days of the SLD. I will remind you that in this House, just as the wave carried one political party And in 2001 it was the Democratic Left Alliance. That's 75%. This room belonged to the SLD. Because she was the biggest party. And today it will be identical in the elections to the European Parliament, the 2 biggest players on the political stage will take the whole pot, it will be no different. In the local government that you referred to, it is that those strong actually take the most, and that often, for example. The local election committee is stronger than the law and justice committee... Then the stronger will simply take the most, not the Law and Justice. Local elections are completely different laws. Today we draw your attention to the fact that this ordination is actually cut into something. But it's not about changing things for the better. We all had reservations about these traveling tickets. This idea, which was really meant to stimulate the willingness to participate, that is, this turnout, in the elections to the European Parliament, has absolutely failed, has failed. Right? No one was quite sure if he had this ticket or not, because they were circling Poland and before the votes were counted... It wasn't until later that you were or weren't a MEP. It was worth changing, but why are you changing it to something that's not going to work the way it's supposed to. This diversity is the building of pro-European political forces that would put out their lists has now been blocked. Of course it's done for your business. Let's just say it out loud. And here's what's gonna happen... You're creating another path, the path of! Once again I'm saying it from this podium. You give another example of how you can change the laws and rules of the game in terms of your own interests. And again you show those who will come after you and will have an arithmetical majority in this room and in the Seym that... perhaps they will also change the laws under themselves, as they will be more comfortable, because you have shown that you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u158	Thank you, Senator. You've got a voice, Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm just in the middle of some sort of digression. There have been a lot of criticisms here about how often we are updating the laws we have passed. So, for the sake of some historical truth... In the case of the 2011 electoral code, there were 7 amendments. The first amendment, the first draft amendment, entered the Sejm on 14 January 2011, and the Act was adopted on 5 January 2011. So nine days after the adoption of this previous electoral code, so wonderful, it was updated by you. And another digression, as they say, pro domo sua. Elections to the European Parliament took place in 2004. Then my dad, the ex-senator, Bogdan Pop. It was also said here that it was a cut-up ordination under Giertych, under the League of Polish Families. I remember my father's phone conversation with Roman Giertych, who was terrified that, as so my father would collect votes in Krakow, they would not have a mandate in a completely different area of Poland. So this issue of this traveling mandate was the undoubted weakness of this electoral ordination, which preferred such electoral districts, where there were just a lot of voters. They, so to speak, spoke to weaker districts where there was much higher support for specific political parties. So it can be said that this previous ordination was not entirely controlled by anyone, it did not fit anyone, and it certainly did not serve democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u160	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u161	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry to tell you this, but I've been called by Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Senator Frost asked two questions, actually that was one question and one statement. Namely, it was about how the electoral threshold in Lublin will now look like. Well, it's pretty simple what it's gonna look like. I'm the one who showed it what it's gonna look like. It's going to be somewhere like this between 15% 20%. That's the threshold. And there will be two parties of course. There's three parking tickets. So, of course, there will be two parties. Based on a deal that's probably not gonna change, I think either three tickets will take the PiS, or two tickets will take the PiS, and one ticket will take the Platform. That's the end of it. That's one thing. Secondly, about the one-mandate electoral district issue... Senator Marshal Bielan here strongly accused the Platform of changing its ordination in his own time. I'm the one who can say something about it, because I didn't do it under myself. I can therefore say... Well, I just want to remind you that the Senate elections have practically always been held in the majority system. The fact that, for example, in Warsaw, 4 were chosen somewhere in Silesia, probably 3, somewhere 2 and only in parts of districts 1, does not mean that where 4 were chosen, there were proportional choices. No, because, for example, in Warsaw there were crucifixes with 4 names and if the party had a clear majority, it was simply the most crucifixes with 4 names from this party, because each party exhibited as many as there were tickets or more. So this change, which took place in 2010, did not involve changing the non-majority system to a majority system, then the system changed in such a way that more districts were created and one of the candidates was selected from each district. That's it. And whether it's a good system or it's not a good system, it's a separate discussion, and I don't want to talk about it. I'm just going to say that it's kind of a good thing that it did, because today, the discussion about whether to change the electoral ordination towards the majority can be based on facts, that is, we can see how it works. And in the system of one election tour It works the way it works. If there were two election tours, then of course the results could be completely different. I don't think it's worth getting these arguments out, not to mention... Yeah, just in time for the end. I hear in these polemics every once in a while between the Platform and the PiS... Well, the platform's been in charge for eight years, so it's built up, and the PiS has something behind it, and it's a little shorter, but it's intense. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Times two.]] Yes, sir. [[Voice from the room: Plus times twice.]] So I often hear in these polemics between the Platform and the PiS from the Law and Justice, from the politicians of Law and Justice: you do not criticize us here because you did the same. But it wasn't supposed to be like this. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You promised it would be different. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's different.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u162	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that to hear information about the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's activities in 2017 we will proceed today, after considering the 19th paragraph concerning the Law on the amendment of the Press Law. We proceed with the review of item 17 of the agenda: the law amending the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. The text of the law is contained in print No 921, and the report of the committee In print No 921 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The bill you announced was discussed at a joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 23 July 2018. The draft of this law was introduced by the Senate and was a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The purpose of the Law of 20 July 2018 on the amendment of the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act, which was adopted almost unanimously in the Sejm, because 422 Members voted in favour, against only 1, 2 Members abstained from voting, is to introduce in the case for protection of personal property in a referendum procedure the possibility of lodging a legal measure against a final judgment, an appeal, in the form of a request for the reopening of proceedings. In referenda mode, which is a very fast procedure, we are dealing with a two-instance: district court 24 hours, later appeal against judgment 24 hours, and appeal court 24 hours. And that's the end of it. There's no way to clear that sentence after these two instances. This amendment enables... It does not have a third instance, but gives it the full opportunity to apply for re-introduction. Of course, this will be after the election. Well, this procedure of reopening is long, even up to 10 years can be made such a resumption of proceedings, because it is a proceeding according to the ordinary and not the electoral mode. This amendment concerns these 2 laws: the Local referendum law and the National referendum law. In these 2 laws, this amendment is introduced. This is the 1 very short amendment. At the committee meeting, it was not even discussed, because the compatibility was similar to that of the Sejm. All 13 senators were in favour, no one was against, no one abstained, so it was adopted unanimously by these two committees. And this is the conclusion of the committee meeting I present to the High Senate. Thank you very much,
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u164	Thank you, Senator. Please remain here for a while, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator of the rapporteur. Are any of your senators... Mr. Senator Jackowski. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the idea is absolutely right, but I would like to understand it well. I understand that if the procedure is conducted in this referenda mode, which is 24 hours, then the judgment is final. [[Yes.]] So this is some kind of emergency search? How could it be defined from a formal legal point of view that it is possible to return to this procedure? Because this issue is not entirely understandable to me. That's the legal mechanism. For the sake of clarity: I believe that this is a very good solution, because often in a 24-hour procedure all arguments cannot be met, not all evidence in the case can be gathered and the court can act on incomplete grounds. So this return is perfectly justified, and I just don't understand how formally this is to be done.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u167	This idea was presented, but there was no wider discussion. So do I, I admit, I'm not a lawyer, nor am I fully aware of it. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. I would very much ask you to redirect this question to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u168	Additional question? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u169	And then, at the committee's meeting, was there any mention of... as far as I know, a significant proportion of these cases concern disputes between the candidate and local media, concerning some texts that have appeared, various press materials, etc. Was it said that such a regulation would require some amendment of the Law, or is it so done that there is no need to do so? I don't know, I'm just asking the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u170	At the committee meeting of such questions, there was no such discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u171	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr. Michał Wójcik, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. The Minister wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u172	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had the opportunity to answer your questions in the Senate as regards your initiative, the initiative of the senators, for which I would like to thank once again very warmly, because this is a solution to a certain idea of justice. Because it can't be that there are new circumstances, new facts. Sometimes after years. That meet this idea, and then the person has no option to use any mode, simply has a closed way to court. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed this out in its judgment referred to here. It is a judgment of 20 April 2017. It found that the constitution was incompatible, specifically with two provisions, but one is particularly important. Because no one can be shut down on a judicial basis in the investigation of violated freedoms or rights, as mentioned in Article 2. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. Thus, in these two laws, we had to deal with a situation where even if new circumstances were revealed, new facts, I say again, sometimes after years, this path could not be used. And this is where I answer to the senator what the idea is. This is the case: if there is an extraordinary measure that is entitled to it, it should be granted in such situations, then why is there no such measure, why is this road closed? And that's what we're presenting you with. It's actually technical. We simply introduce provisions in 2 laws that say that it is in fact possible to resume in such situations if, for example, they reveal themselves. New circumstances, new facts. In this case, the provision relating to the resumption of proceedings under the Civil Procedure Code will apply. I would very much ask your senators to accept... This is your initiative, very good, right, I say again. I know that even the chairman of the State Election Commission spoke on this matter, if I remember correctly. It was a loophole. Well, there can't be a loophole in the law. It must also be ensured that if such circumstances become apparent and this 10-year period has not expired, the person, if the 3-month period has not also expired, is entitled to appear before the court. This cannot be prevented by the fact that this mode is special, you can say, because these matters, as was said here, are resolved in a particular mode. It's only 24 hours. Right? So the appeal in 24 hours, the diagnosis, the complaint, the diagnosis of this appeal in 24 hours... Well, it can't be that right now there's a cut and that's it, and that's it. That is why I thank the Senate very much for this initiative. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u173	I thank Minister Michael Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jackowski called in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u174	Thank you very much. Minister, I have such a... I understand that there's a 10-year-old person who feels that there's some material in the case, there's new circumstances. Now, she's making a request to the competent court, to the civilian department. Whether there is a definition of these new circumstances, or simply in the proposal it says that in a relationship, etc. There have been new circumstances, and no matter what the rank of these new circumstances is, the court is obliged to initiate proceedings? How will this look from the technical point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u175	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u176	The time limit laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, as I have already said, is three months from the time when a person has learned of new circumstances or facts which may result in a recurrence, but no longer, as I remember, than within 10 years of the validity of that provision. That's the term here, Senator. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u177	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u178	'Cause I was just asking... I understand that the party is filing a motion... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] I mean, a lawsuit, in short... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Conclusion.]] ...by speaking formally. Does the court have a duty to initiate proceedings, or can it reject this application, considering that the new circumstances that give rise to the reason are not new circumstances, but simply a desire to, in the face of the matter, to extend this procedure in order to obtain any arguments to achieve its objectives? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: If this request is... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u179	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u180	If the application complies with all the formal requirements, the court will be required to initiate such a case and recognise it. It's obvious. What will be the final decision is a very separate matter. Once again, Mr. Senator, we can't close the way for such a person. Even if, let's say, there was an unauthorized person in the courthouse... Well, how are we supposed to face the idea of justice? In this situation, it seems obvious. This was indicated not only in this one ruling of the Constitutional Court, which was indicated here. Other decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal also signalled the need to patch this gap, to fill in. And that's what this initiative is for. That's why, in my opinion... I don't want to say that this is a purely technical design, a purely technical solution. This is indeed a necessary solution. These things aren't much, that's the truth. There are few such complaints for renewal, but this must not prejudice the fact that such a road will be closed. Absolutely. The court will re-examine the case within the limits of the reopening, i.e. within the limits to be specified by the person concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u181	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] Would Minister Magdalena Pietrzak, head of the National Election Office, like to speak? [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] You don't have a minister. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Senator Jackowski. There you go. He didn't sign up, but he's checking in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, Chairman of the National Council, Radiophony and Television! I would like to say that this is a very good initiative. What Mr Wójcik suggested in his answers... the intention of my questions was absolutely not to question the idea. I just wanted to know in detail the mechanism from the point of view, so to speak, the trial, from the judicial side. It seems to me that this is the right course of action. From my practice, it appears from my knowledge that most of this kind of situation arises when, in the fight between candidates in any election, there are insinuations or something that someone defines as slander, or false information is disseminated, or personal goods are violated in other ways. It's this kind of thing. They are most often recognized on the basis of witness statements and collected evidence, i.e. some texts, press materials that appear, leaflets or electoral materials, in which someone gave e.g. false information about your competitor. These are cases that are often very difficult to judge by the court. The limit for the protection of personal goods is a category known in the case law and described in the literature, but the personal feelings of the plaintiff, who may consider that something is a breach of that limit, are of course very judgmental. The criteria are very subjective here. There are cases in which the court does not look for a violation of any personal property and the person leaves the court with a sense of harm, because the phrase that affected her in some way has been used. The solution that has been proposed is very good. I would like to say that, of course, I will vote in favour of this solution. I would like to draw attention to another aspect. In my opinion... This is a discussion I held in the Senate, among others. with the Minister. We have adopted in press law a solution that can generate cases that will be dealt with in this new mode. What kind of recipe am I talking about? I am referring precisely to this provision in the press law at the moment, which says that if a journalist faithfully quotes the statement of the person who gave this statement, in extenso, he does not need to authorize such a statement. But it may happen that someone, not fully aware of it, used a word he didn't want to use or made an obvious mistake... Well, I don't know, for example he said that changes in Poland took place in 1979. And he may later consider that this statement embarrassed him, because it was taken so that he is ignorant and does not know when these changes in Poland began. And if he had the opportunity to authorize this statement, he would think about it for a moment, check it out and give us the correct year in which these changes in Poland began. But in a situation in which this record, journalist or media, is absolutely protected, because this statement was quoted in extenso. And now I'm wondering if there's gonna be cases in the court that, after we've exhausted this procedure, when the court dismisses his lawsuit in 24 hours, and the verdict is legitimized, he's gonna continue to file... hoping that in this mode that we're now introducing into the Civil Procedure Code, he'll be able to obtain a satisfactory judicial settlement. I am saying this so that the House is simply aware of what we are talking about and what kind of issues this is about, which is the solution we are currently looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u183	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television and the Act on Subscription Fees. The text of the Act is contained in print No 917 and the report of the committee In print No 917 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the revision of the Radio and Television Act and the Act on subscription fees. As a representative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin, Minister of State, participated in the committee's deliberations, who has extensively presented the principles of the law. In short, this law aims to bring Polish law into line with the principles of the European Union's common market. In accordance with the preliminary opinion adopted by the Directorate-General. The European Commission's competition on 10 May 2011 with regard to the compatibility of the current system of financing Polish Television SA with the common market, this financing constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article. 107. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The opinion stresses that the Polish system of financing public media should be regarded as so-called. State aid, however, compatible with the common market. However, as stressed by the Commission, it is necessary to take full account of all the public aid rules set out in the Communication from the European Commission on the application of State aid rules to public service broadcasting. This opinion identifies areas where there are reasonable doubts as to whether they are regulated in our legal system and whether they are fully in line with this Communication. And here the European Commission has highlighted the need, among others. clarification of the definition of the public service mission, the creation of a procedure for prior assessment of the envisaged significant new media services, the introduction of explicit legislation on the limitation of public funding to the net costs of the public service mission and the principles of supervision of possible over-compensation in this respect, and the regulation of effective supervision of the quality of the public service mission. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, together with the National Council of Radiophony and Television, as well as the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and representatives of public broadcasters, has developed a draft law implementing the provisions of the communication to the Polish legal order, and has carried out a working consultation with the European Commission. Specifically, in view of the need to clarify the definition of the public service mission, it is proposed to amend the statutory catalogue of mission tasks set out in Article. 21 Radio and TV Act. However, it was considered that the law should not contain too detailed and casuistic regulations on the tasks arising from the implementation of the public service mission. It is therefore proposed that further details of missionary tasks be carried out in a duty card, which would be determined by an agreement concluded by each public radio and television company with the National Radio and Television Council. The Charter of Obligations, in force for a period of 5 years, would lay down the rules for the implementation of the public service mission as well as the detailed scope of the mission obligations. The Charter will specify, among other things, what services can be provided by public broadcasters and how specific mission tasks are to be carried out. The specific form of the agreement is intended to ensure a balance to enable effective fulfilment of the constitutional obligations of the National Radio and Television Council while respecting the freedom of broadcasters to shape their programme. Further clarification of mission tasks will be carried out in the revised programming and financial plans. The plans to be established on the basis of this duty card will set out the projects to carry out the tasks of the public service mission in a given calendar year. The definition of a public service mission in the Act and the subsequent clarification of the public service mission in the Charters of Obligations and in the programming and financial plans has been considered by the European Commission to meet the standards of precision of definitions set out in the Commission Communication. In response to the call for a procedure for prior evaluation of the envisaged significant new media services, it is proposed to introduce the so-called "new media services." an ex ante test whereby the National Radio and Television Council would assess the new essential services of public broadcasters. This test will be carried out in the case of services fulfilling the requirement of novelty, services significantly different from the services already offered and materiality, i.e. cases where the total cost of the service in the first full calendar year is higher than 3% the planned annual costs of carrying out the mission. The launch of such services will in principle require the approval of the National Radio and Television Council, preceded by an assessment of their public value. That is to say, assessing whether the new service will serve, say, democratic, social, cultural needs of society, media pluralism, etc. and, of course, an assessment of its impact on the market. If, as a result of the procedure, the National Radio and Television Council concludes that the service does not have sufficient public value, taking into account its impact on the market, it will refuse to conclude an agreement on the Charter of Obligations for that service. The European Commission has also stressed the need to regulate the reduction of public funding for mission implementation costs. Therefore, regulation has been introduced that the annual revenues of public media from public sources must not exceed the cost of carrying out the mission. According to European law, the project provides for 2 exceptions to this principle. The first is that the surplus does not exceed 10% the cost of implementing the mission will only be allocated to the implementation of the public service mission on the terms and conditions laid down in the Charter. And the second: surplus over 10% in exceptional cases, with the agreement of the National Radio and Television Council expressed by an administrative decision, it may be retained by the sender for the purpose specified in the decision. The Act proposes to increase the control powers of the National Radio and Television Council for the supervision of public spending. The Act proposes, first of all, to amend the rules on the reports of public service broadcasters. However, the most important thing in terms of compliance with European law is the granting of supervisory measures to the National Radio and Television Council. The National Radio and Television Council will evaluate individual reports which will enable it to reject them. When adopting a resolution on the adoption or rejection of a public service broadcasting report, the National Radiophony and Television Council will be able to set out recommendations for the application of the duty card and the programming and financial plan in the following calendar year and will be able to recommend certain corrective actions. Where a public broadcaster fails to comply with the recommendations of the National Radio and Television Council, it will be able to impose sanctions and, in particular, impose fines on the person in charge of the sender concerned. In conclusion, I would like to say that the law that we are now debating, adopted by the Sejm on the basis of a government proposal, is the implementation of the commitments agreed with the European Commission in 2011 and 2017 of the Republic of Poland in this respect, which were adopted by the Committee for European Affairs of the Council of Ministers. The European Commission, considering the commitments submitted as compatible with European law, closed its proceedings in 2017, considering that their implementation into legal order would ensure compliance of Polish law with the standards resulting from the Communication from the European Commission. The effect of the entry into force of the law will be to ensure full compliance of the Polish financing system with the provisions of European law, as I mentioned, has been confirmed by the European Commission. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2019 with the exception of the provisions concerning the preparation and submission of a report to the National Radio and Television Council for the previous calendar year, inter alia. from the implementation of the public service mission and the use of subscription proceeds. The Act raises no legislative objections. It was unanimously supported by the Committee on Culture and Media, which asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u185	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jackowski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a technical question just to make it clear to the public. And what about the subscription that has been a duty so far with regard to the users of radio-television receivers? What's next with the subscription? And now my second question. I understand that there will be agreements between the National Council of Radio and Television and the public broadcaster on the implementation of the public media mission, and this will involve the transfer of specific funds to the implementation of the mission by the public media, be it radio stations or Polish Television and its regional departments. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u187	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u188	The subscription still works. Work is underway on the new bill. I think the Minister who is taking part in this work on the new subscription bill will explain it to us. I don't know about that, and there was no mention of that at the committee meeting. Of course, the subscription paid so far is a form of public subsidy which falls within the framework of this law, but this does not cause any controversy in the European Union, as in other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u189	Thank you. You're asking Senator Augustine another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u190	Mr. Senator, will these rules put an end to the possibility of giving false messages in public television news programmes, even if it is to be properly defined, what is the mission, and that this charter of duty will be adopted? And will she be ready by January 1st? At least I understood your statement so that it would happen at the time. That's the first line. And then there's the second line. Will it be possible under the rule of this law to extradend, without any destiny that we have witnessed twice in this parliamentary term? Will it be possible, or will it now require some special justification and a reassignment of these resources for the implementation of this undefined mission?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u191	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, although you said that there would be oversight of the public service mission, I would like to know exactly what this would be. Because in the Code of Commercial Law, these things are clear, there's a board of supervisors that does, let's call it surveillance, and here you just signaled that there's gonna be supervision. And second question. I don't know whether to address you or the Minister. [[The minister's office.]] [[The minister's office.]] I would like to ask for a precise calculation of how much money has been transferred to public television since the beginning of the term of office. If possible, please respond in writing. Of course, I mean any form, donation or loan, because that's what voters are very interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Augustine would have to tell me what lies on TV... [[I'd love to!]] ...public walking. Then maybe I would have referred to it, but we're talking about what was discussed at the Committee on Culture and Media, we're just talking about this bill. There are ministers with us, there is a minister from the National Council of Radiophony and Television, there is Minister Sellin, so that they could possibly answer Senator Komarnicki's question. Well, these are specific issues that I don't do at all, and they weren't on either. ... [[Thank you very much. I'll repeat that question.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Anybody else want to ask a question...]] Let me just add that the Radio Act clearly states what the supervision of the National Radio and Television Council looks like over public media. There are very detailed provisions, and the European Commission has not challenged the definition of public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u195	Senator Jackowski is asking you one more question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u196	Mr. Senator, I have this question: are these funds that will be transferred only relate to programme implementation, namely specific programmes, so-called. missionary or may be allocated to some extent to the development of public media infrastructure in any form I would no longer like to enter into technical matters, let's say, the development of Internet networks, broadcasting networks and such cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u198	These measures only apply to public broadcasters and only to missions... [[Thank you...]] ...that's just programs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u199	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Jarosław Sellin wish to speak as a representative of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The genesis of this bill is that, about 10 years ago, one of the large commercial broadcasters complained to the European Commission, claiming that maintaining public media is unlawful public aid, so the Commission opened proceedings and started this dialogue with the European Commission about whether or not this is really the case. This is not the case, of course, because in all the countries of the European Union we have public media and they are supported by public funds, and this support has different forms, including the form of a special subscription in Poland today. However, in the course of this dialogue with the European Commission, which is, as you can see, 10 years old, it has been suggested that we clarify our law, which is precisely what we are proposing here, that we know exactly what we mean by a public mission, by the obligations we expect to fulfil, which we expect from the public media. Hence the duty card, the oversight of the mission, the execution of this mission, etc., etc. And this is the essence of this law, that in such a creative dialogue with the European Commission we have simply clarified the definition of a public service mission in the law and the possibility of maintaining public media partly from public funds precisely because they carry out this mission. As for the specific questions that have been raised here, of course today there is a law in force. And I encourage you to follow it, I obey the law that says that we should pay a subscription to maintain public media for having a radio or television receiver in our households. And regardless of what we think about it, whether we believe that it is an anachronistic form of maintaining the form of public media or not, this law applies today in Poland. And certainly from the politicians of my political camp there will be no call to not pay an unauthorized tax, no racketeering, no assurances that no one will be punished for not paying a subscription. Even though people were punished after that, they were prosecuted. And so did the leader of the political camp that ruled before. [[Minister, what does that have to do with anything?]] That's what happened. That's what happened. I'm describing the facts. [[That has nothing to do with it.]] He's got something to do with... [[He's got nothing to do with it.]] He's got a point because there were questions here... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Minister...]] There were questions about the subscription here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There were questions about the subscription here and... [[Senator, don't interrupt. Please sign up...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I'm not ashamed that I'm a politician, because politics is for the sake of the common good. That's how I define it. [[Applause]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Senator, how would you like to report? In what mode?]] [[Voice from the room: Obstruction.]] [[No mode.]] [[No mode.]] [[No mode? Sign up for the discussion...]] [[I'd like to ask the Minister not to be...]] [[Sign up for the discussion because this is the voice for the discussion... There you go, Minister.]] [[I've been hearing the same thing from this guy for 10 years...]] [[Please sign up for the discussion and don't interrupt.]] [[...and that's not true...]] Very interesting, Mr... [[What guy?]] [[Let's not talk anymore because I'm sorry...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Very interesting, Mr. Senator. I thought we always liked each other, and you called me some guy... [[I like you, but I don't like you saying things that aren't true.]] [[Mr. Senator, don't yell and sign up for the discussion.]] How about you... Mr. Senator, can you please read the name of the bill that you've passed on the Senate committee? It's called amending the Radio and Television Act and the Subscription Fee Act. So I'm on the subject. I'm talking about subscription fees... [[Okay, I'm sorry, sir. I still like you.]] I am talking about subscription fees and the issue of subscription fees, because it is precisely one of them. because in the public domain they fell e.g. These are the voices I have mentioned that we have a serious crisis when it comes to obtaining money from the subscription, even though this is still the law in force. It's probably here, in Witold Kołodziejski's room, head of the National Radio and Television Council, and probably has more precise information, but if I'm not mistaken, today only a dozen percent of households pay their subscription. It's not quite a healthy situation, and that's why I mentioned it. There was also a question about work on a new form of public media maintenance from public funds. For the time being, I would like to state that this form is in force, which is to pay a subscription and maintain public media from a subscription. I can't say that we're going to be proposing a new form of public media maintenance at some point in time, because there is no such will. But I'm sure it's the solution we took last year, this past year... sorry, this year... yeah, this year. In order to compensate the public media for the loss of unpaid subscription due to the fact that the legislator has for years exempted the various social groups from paying this subscription... Perhaps we will continue this policy because, in my opinion, it should be for decency. If a public institution is provided with funding, and the law limits this funding for social reasons, it should compensate for this loss resulting from the Act on the exemption from subscription for social reasons, and we may continue this policy. This is where I answer the question, I think, of Senator Komarnicki... [[Yes...]] No, it was Senator Augustine who asked about these compensations. Yes, we are considering continuing the policy of paying these compensations to the public media. You also asked about the power supply that took place last year, the additional power supply of public media. It was just a loan. The loan has to be repaid sooner or later. This is a loan tranche that has been launched and public media can reach for. With regard to the question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, whether these funds resulting from the fact that the National Council has had the proceeds of the subscription and issued after the signature of the Charter of Public Obligations by the public media can be spent on matters other than purely programmed, I answer that yes, they can be, because for example. developing or modernising infrastructure helps to better fulfil the mission. Thus, the National Council, in agreement with individual public broadcasters, will decide this. Senator Komarnicki asked for supervision. Surveillance is pretty complicated. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage took over e.g. the supervision which the Ministry of the Treasury had over the public media, which ceased to exist. And this is purely audit supervision, financial supervision. We simply ensure that the budget is properly implemented by individual public media. However, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage does not have any powers, and we do not intend to have these powers, in the field of evaluation e.g. public media programme activities. Here the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council are more powerful. Of course, there is also a board of supervisors in every public medium, and there are programme councils. Depending on which authority it is called upon to do so, it shall exercise that supervision. Remember, too. 'Cause I've always noticed that in such debates about public media, everyone is focused on television. That the public media in Poland is 19. Let us not forget that there are 19 public media in Poland. It's not just public television. Senator Augustine also asked when the first duty card would be. The first Charter will be due from 1 January 2020. Senator Komarnicki also asked how much money has been spent since the beginning of his term of office... Yeah, you asked about the TVP, and the other public media didn't, but I understand it's your senator's public medium. Indeed, the National Radio and Television Council is more empowered to answer this question, because it divides this pool of subscription revenues into individual public media each year: on television, on large public radio, on 17 regional public radio stations. This is the main source of public media income. Of course, it is clear that in our system public media also have the right to obtain commercial funds, to earn money on advertising, sponsorship and on various other things. How is the subscription shared? The National Radio and Television Council has more knowledge on this subject. Thank you very much. If I've aroused any unnecessary emotions, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u201	Minister, stay a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. Senator Jackowski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I understand that, in the light of this law, after its entry into force, aid from the state budget, in theory, will be admissible aid. This is about aid to public media for specific actions, e.g. for some social campaign, for specific purposes, which would be included in the contract's dues sheet. It's a possibility. Yes or no? I'd like a clear answer here. Will budgetary resources under the law be able to influence public media? That's the first question. And second question. The Minister mentioned in his statement that at the moment we have actually this state of suspension. I will remind you that during this term there were probably 3 projects or ideas about the subscription fee. He was among others. It's a design to connect it to an electric meter, and so on. There were different projects. I recently read in the media that, however, there is a possibility that there would be direct State funding here. I found that information in the media. I would ask the Minister to elaborate on this subject. What is the direction in which we are thinking about solving this issue? This law is ordering the state that we now have, adding some possibilities to raise funds. But what would be the target model for public media funding? I also thank the Minister for reminding Donald Tusk of his not paying his subscription. As far as I'm concerned, and I asked... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] Here's the question. After this statement by Donald Tusk, did the proceeds of the subscription fall or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u203	We'll add another question to Senator Komarnicki's question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u204	I understand that the question of finance... I'm gonna turn this over to the head of the National Council. I have a question for you, Minister. For years it has been expected to expand the public television centre in Gorzów Wielkopolski. I think it's been 13 or 14 years. The plot has long been handed over to the television for a symbolic zloty. I'll be honest with you, all the political forces were in line here, but to this day, things can't get out of hand. As far as I'm concerned, there's even full documentation, Minister. After so many years ago, this voivodship seems to belong.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u205	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u206	You asked for an answer to the question of sharing public funds for the public media of the President of the National Radio and Television Council. As for the question about the public television centre in Gorzów Wielkopolski, I would also ask Mr Kołodziejski for an answer, because I am not aware of what this situation looks like today. I'm answering Senator Jackowski's questions. Yes, you can. Even if it's decided that we're keeping public media from the state budget... There is no such decision, but if it were, the law that we are proceeding today will allow it and will be in line with the definition of state aid to which the European Commission is attached. As far as public media are concerned, I generally believe that this is a good principle. It is valid in all European Union countries, most of which are far greater than in our country. I'm talking about the scale of aid to public media. Everywhere there is a belief that we need to have in the media and radio and television space, a guarantee that there are media that fill... This can be assessed differently, of course, by wondering whether they are fulfilling well or bad, or could they do better, but they have a duty to fulfil various elements of the public mission. We can define them differently. Of course, this is often a subjective assessment of what is missionary and what is not missionary, but such media should be. Of course, in private media space there are often excellent software projects or even whole antennas, which can also be defined as missionary, but this depends on individual private media owners' decisions. And these media can be whimsical. At one point such an owner wants to have a medium that broadcasts e.g. classical music or jazz music, and at another point it can say: "A," I'm not interested anymore and I'm not interested in it anymore. And yet we must have a guarantee. And this is the thinking that applies in all European countries, and it is about having media that are committed to something and guaranteeing that these types of software elements in these media will be. Therefore, of course, the need to keep these media public and provide them with a certain guarantee of public funding. For many years now, there has been a discussion about how this media maintenance is to take place. For now, we have a subscription system. There were, of course, discussions about a new system, e.g. with a special media fee allocated to other fees or financing directly from the State budget. Each of these solutions has its own shortcomings, but also its advantages. However, I cannot confirm today that there is a government or ministerial decision that we are going in a determined way in a direction in terms of changing today's system. I can't confirm that today. As for the question of the loss of subscription influence after the unwise statements of the politician, which the senator mentioned, they were very clear. The proceeds from nearly PLN 800 million, the seven hundred and a few million that were collected before these statements, came down to four hundred and a few million zlotys, or almost 50%. And it was difficult to rebuild this system in recent years so that it would return to more or less the sums that were before these statements. So that from the point of view of public media interest as well as compliance with the law in Poland In my opinion, it was very irresponsible to call for failure to comply with the law in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u207	Another series of questions. Mr. Senator Czerwinski and Mr. Senator Żaryn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is one, but essential, concerning the so-called. It's a big media bill. Are there any ongoing work on this law that would contain issues related to media deconcentration and standards as regards the share of foreign capital? That's what they do in Western Europe. If they don't, why? And if they're still going on, what stage are they at? And can it be expected to be submitted to the marshal's staff?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u209	You're still Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would, however, still discuss the subject raised by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, because there is something I cannot understand here. It's the third year of the rule of law and justice, and we're basically still referring to a subscription to history. Of course, she has her Factography, but Mr. Donald Tusk's statement was once there, long ago, and we should have solved it. Our will and our responsibility It's a pretty fundamental problem. Namely, it is that we can either introduce such, say, Alexander the Great's decision, with the use of a sword, to introduce a special tax or to put an appropriate amount of money on each citizen, separated so that these public media can feel some kind of comfort of functioning, because they are, and rightly, limited to these missionary obligations... [[Mr. Senator, please proceed to the question.]] Yes, sir. So I would strongly ask you not to use the wording that there is no political will, because I understood the Minister's statement. There can't be no political will. Three years of government and no political will? It's incomprehensible to me, just internally.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u211	Thank you, Senator. No further questions... No, Senator Czarnobaj's question. There you go. Then there'll be answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u212	Mr. Marshal, Minister, as part of my gestures of liking myself, I would like to state that I very much like the Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: From one region we are.]] Not just because the Minister is from Pomerania, that's not why. [[The kiss of death.]] [[Pomorskie option.]] [[Please don't disturb me. The senator's asking.]] Minister, we know, and this is how it goes in the statements of Senator Jackowski and Minister... We know the guilty one who drove Polish TV into financial problems. 'Cause I'd like to go on TV in two words. Tell me... How do I look? Because I'm not a professional in this business. That's why I'm asking the Minister. On ratings, a decrease in the number of viewers, etc., etc., I guess we can't be proud of what Polish television achieves, especially information services. Could you tell me who's to blame? That's one thing. And secondly, Minister, briefly: is the Minister satisfied with what he presents, especially on information services, Polish television? Yes or no? That's all I'm interested in, a short answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u213	Thank you. Minister, a series of questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u214	Maybe I'll start over. Of course, I could be fooling myself that this is not the subject of the bill we're investigating. But if there's a question, I have a habit of answering. [[I was counting on it.]] Am I happy? With many elements I am pleased, as for many, I might have some reservations. With regard to the function I am currently performing, i.e. the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage, I am very pleased that, for example, the Television Theatre and Radio Theatre on public radio have been rebuilt. We really have a lot of these productions now, for many, many years it hasn't been like this. We had 25 TV productions and 26 radio productions to present at the last two Theatre festival in Sopot. This has not been the result for many, many years. I am very pleased with, for example, the thematic channels, TVP History or TVP Culture, which perfectly fulfill their mission. I am also pleased because I was recently at a public television programme council meeting and she invited me as a representative of the government to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. The Republic of Poland To present the government's plans for this 100th anniversary. But by the way I also got acquainted with the plans of this public television related to 100 years and I was built the number of projects carried out on all antennas related to reflection on Polish history, feature series, feature films which television produces, devoted to Polish history, also history from 100 years ago, and various programmes of educational, entertainment, but touching the subject. Thus, in general, the fulfilment of the mission by public media is becoming richer, and public television is also richer. As far as audiences or audiences of public media are concerned, for years there has been such a stable situation that, in general, if all antennas are taken into account, public television has about 1/3 of the television market in Poland. And this is a good result for public media, which must race with, well, very attractive from the point of view of entertainment offer or commercial private television. A summary audience of the public radio I mean all the big radio antennas and regional public radio stations. That's about 1/4 of the market. And that's a good result too. Compared to other European countries, with how much market share there are of particular segments, whether public or private, this is a good result. About Senator Gary's question... Please understand me well. There may be a slight element of malice in my response, but we are from one political community and one political camp. And there are different ways to develop political will, and anyone can contribute to that in our camp, including the senator. So if you convince the leadership of our political camp that we already have, immediately, to impose a special tax on Poles and that we will do so well, then try to do so. [[That's what they say.]] It is well known that in politics, sometimes some projects can be very difficult to explain, too. I believe that we should generally think about some new form of public media funding from public funds than the one that is in force today, but politically Let's say it clearly and honestly. It's not easy. However, the subscription system after this dredging, which we talked about and its causes, has largely rebuilt itself. through prudent activities, including promotional activities, the National Radio and Television Council. We have come to influences comparable to the influences that were before these unwise statements, although this is not sufficient. We've been talking about the subscription crisis for many, many years. Because if you were to calculate how much this subscription should affect all households that have registered... no, they don't have registered, but they should register radio and television receivers, even taking into account social groups that are exempt from payment of the subscription, it should be several times more funds than it is today. So the subscription crisis has been a permanent phenomenon for many years, even for several years, and not for several years. As for Senator Czerwinski's question... The ownership concentration in the media is Seems to me that I'm not gonna be It is necessary in the future, because in Poland there has been an extraordinary situation, unprecedented in any large country of the European Union. The point is, in a certain segment of the media market, foreign capital dominates, and so totally, and in addition to one particular country... In such situations, despite the principle which applies in the European Union: free movement of persons, capital, services, etc. However, there are special regulations in large countries, e.g. in France and Germany, which do not allow... And there is no big country in the European Union that would allow foreign capital to take ownership of the media on such a scale. This is a problem to solve in the future. This problem has been analyzed and has also been legally transposed in my ministry. We're just waiting for a political decision about when we're starting to solve this problem. That's all I can say about it today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u215	Thank you, Minister. Since no one asks any more questions, I now ask Mr. Witold Kołodziejski... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Thank you.]] ... the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, to take the floor because the questions were announced to the Minister. There you go. Senator Komarnicki has announced a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u216	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I have agreed with the Minister that, in the case of these two questions concerning the finances and the construction of the Gorzów centre, I will receive a written reply. And here...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u217	Thank you. [[...I wouldn't want to bother the Minister any more.]] Are there any more questions for the Minister? Well, if there isn't... The Minister may also speak on his own initiative if you consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u218	Since a few times there has been a thread of the decline in subscription revenues, in addition to Mr Sellin's statement, I will say that in 2007 the revenue was at the level of PLN 897 million. Then there was this answer and these announcements, because this was the period of the election campaign. A year later it was already PLN 730 million, then PLN 620 million, and in 2011 it was PLN 470 million. So this inheritance actually... And it was the most crisis year of 2011. Later, this subscription was subsequently raised. I would add that the period between 2007 and 2010 was the period during which I was president of the National Council, but the National Council was sort of in opposition to the government and also disputes between... They have adversely affected the subscription situation, but I would stress that I also had several times at the time, reporting the need to apply the principle of compensation when introducing further licence concessions. I was also speaking to the Senate Marshal on this matter. My successor, President Jan Dworak, was also attending the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate for compensation. Indeed, it seems natural that if a group is exempt from fees, it should be compensated. Subscription division. Next year the subscription is planned at PLN 650 million. Well, we're also hoping for compensation, but of course it's going to be the Prime Minister's decision. As for the detailed rules for the division of the subscription, I will, of course, send that information to the senator. In general, it is so that half of the basic subscription amount that the Polish Post gives us, we hand over public television, half of radio companies, and here between the big radio and 17 companies the division is also half-fifty. In the case of radio companies, this provides funding for up to 80 percent of missionary tasks, and in the case of television and television programmes, missionary television programmes are at twenty to twenty percent. The rest of the missionary tasks are financed by commercial public television activities. In 2017, the cost of missionary activity was PLN 1.5 billion. When we talk about the financial needs of public media, we estimate these needs at the level of over PLN 3 billion. This would be a relatively low funding of public media compared to funding in other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u219	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the representative, the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Komarnicki. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It's a very good bill, and it's needed, and it's finally there. If it weren't for the words that caused my emotions, nothing would have happened in the O.R. Therefore, if I may, by accepting your elegant, as always, behavior, that you apologize for your emotions. I apologized earlier not to use that argument anymore. He fell during the election campaign. I was in this campaign, and I was in favour, too, because we thought that the subscription could be terminated. Such attempts have been made. The Minister knows very well that in 2008 there was already a trial, a concept to finance television from budget resources. This has been stopped by a crisis that has taken place throughout Europe. Now I'd like to say more about that liking. Well, Mr. Senator, I like Kashëbë, I like the Kashubians. Ba, Kleina, Plocky, Lanczyk... my friends were waking up, and I like Tusk very much, and so do you. But as many times as we meet, you're the one who's getting me that subscription. Well, you can imagine that I, if I like someone... e.g. I like her, but I don't speak in public because they're gonna say I'm giving him a kiss of death. And now, sir, do you know what else happened? That I like Mr. Lighthouse. [[Mr. Senator, get to the point.]] But that's the point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because Mr. Żaryn, I have 10 minutes with the professor with whom we are arguing, as always, very culturally, followed as if my thoughts were followed. Well, we haven't been able to create that subscription for so many years. I, as head of the committee, asked this question, to which the Minister replied that Minister Lewandowski was dealing with these matters in the government, that negotiations, discussions, etc. were ongoing. Well, that's what political will is for. But here's what I'm going to say: actually Minister Kołodziejski and Minister Dworak cared about these compensations, and now it's like this... I don't know, I get more and more calls that repression works effectively, because people pay for unpaid subscription huge money right now, even after 10,000 PLN. The Minister said he was paying a subscription. It's obvious. I always pay my subscription, too, but cheating... I don't know if you can tell the President of the National Council. However, it was effective, so to speak, to collect these debts. And I don't know if that's gonna cause any kind of rebellion. That's it. And thank you, by the way, because we're doing a good job on this case. And if we're talking about public television, it's because we're all in favour of it being public, not party. And that's all it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u221	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! The law needed concerns two key issues that always raise a dispute in Parliament. The first concerns the function of television, in particular the implementation of its mission, which has not yet been defined, specified, called, so that it can be properly enforced. And the second is about how we finance it. And this case has not yet been fully settled. Governments change, concepts change, there are different statements and boasts that we will settle this in a moment, and then the years pass and, as the Minister said, there is no political will, and there is simply helplessness to this problem once before. I must say that if there is something I regret about my political camp, it is above all that this issue has not been settled properly and in time. Perhaps because for a long time market competition was thought to be a recipe for what to do in the media and the multi-durality of views that should be expressed in them, especially political ones, but also cultural and other options. That's the moment we're in. This law comes as implementation of long-awaited recommendations. It is a pity that in 2020 we will be able to look forward to this card, which will clarify in detail what a public mission is. And by then we'll probably have what we have, that is, public television absolutely stubborn, giving us false messages on the belt, in editorial, biased comments. I've experienced this many times myself, being in a TV studio. [[Voice from the room: We all do.]] To the point that some people just get up and go out because they feel disgusted and insulted. Even yesterday it was dared to say that the Senators of the Platform decided that the president's motion had been rejected. o referendum The obvious lie served and orally, and on the belt, in whatever form it was possible. And it's not the speakers, it's the TV. So there can be no shortage of such a voice that today a large part of society, if not the majority, is convinced that public television in this information layer is simply lying. If it is carrying out a mission, it is the mission of a particular party that intends to push its projects, and it minimizes the possibility, which has been calculated on several occasions, to present opinions that are different from those who think. You could say that a worse change than this couldn't have been made up for television. Therefore, with some hope, I look at the fact that, finally, as I hope, this sad time will be over in 2020, the new authorities will be required to clarify what should be clarified long ago so that people know that paying, whether from taxes or subscriptions, from public television, pay for something concrete, implemented honestly, impartially, something that shows fairly different points of view and is limited to presenting facts rather than biased comments. I started by regretting this year's delay, but maybe it's a good thing that he is, because I'm afraid to think what would come to mind about the mission today. So maybe it's for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u223	You have a voice, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't going to speak, but Senator Augustine won with me and I have to take the floor. I believe that there are definitely the tasks of the state, which involve maintaining something that we can call internal communication. And the media, which are state media, funded media, whether as a result of compensation, or as a result of any other intention, by state structures, have a missionary obligation, which includes the need to conduct internal communication, among others. also between power and society. There is no doubt that public media have the task of responding to the whole media sphere that is functioning. The State also has such an obligation, no one exempts it, if it wants to be a state with the institutions responsible for social communication, to what is the transmission outside the public media, the communication that creates this internal communication. And, Mr. Senator, there's no doubt... This, of course, is what I am saying as a side of the conflict between us existing, including the historical memory of recent years. I undoubtedly belong to this environment, which during the long years of the rule of the Civic Platform was so repeatedly insulted and abused, in addition with the intention of insulting and insulting, that I would wonder very deeply if I were in your place, whether to raise the question of the true or alleged lie that exists today in public media. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know I have ease... ♪ I've got ease ♪ of course, in the sense that I belong to this part of the Polish society, which has been the victim of your media manipulations for more than 8 years. And as I hear from you now, Mr. Senator, that our side mostly deals with lies, it's just horrible or ridiculous or sad. I don't really know which concept to choose here. But I clearly understand, and I am not surprised that you are experiencing some situational discomfort, because indeed public media, just entering this space of 100 percent of the conditions that we have in Poland, are trying better, worse... Just so we're clear, I think it's a lot worse. Okay, this level can be discussed. But they fill this space, which is connected with the occupation of a much larger media space by the other side, including your side, which is also very clearly present today in social communication, in communication within the Polish nation. Therefore, give us the right to communicate according to our ethical, moral standards, our understanding of the world, our understanding of history... [[But not for public money.]] I repeat: public media they do not function in the anonymous sphere, but in the context, in an analyzed context, the context of media reality, which covers 100%. The State would probably want public media to exist only and only according to such a concept that there is some standard of communication dictated by today's opposition. No, the standard of communication is also dialogue with other non-public media, which takes place at the level of the public media tool. And yes, I hope it will, because that's when this balance will be preserved. This is the fate of the transformation after 1989 that there is a media sphere that has been dedicated. After 1989, it is still under the responsibility of Communists, post-communists, relativists, very many environments that have caused this communication to be disturbed. And we're trying this balance... [[Well, relativism, yes.]] ...bring it in. Does that mean we're not making mistakes? This is our site today. I've obviously got an example. such a feeling that public television information programmes are based on a certain presumption, similar to TVN, that the vast majority of the Polish people are thoughtless people and therefore need to be broadcast to them less intellectually and not more. I would clearly strengthen this belief in the Polish people also on the side of public television. But these are secondary criticisms of this analysis that I tried to do here, an analysis of the media reality. Objectively, it is simply the case and it must be responded to if you live in a genuinely democratic country in which you want to communicate not in the form of a one-sounding message, but in the game of messages, since we cannot communicate at the level of very fundamental issues. If we communicate on basic issues, we'll probably find that we can argue about secondary issues everywhere. But for today, unfortunately, you have created such a reality with eight years of your governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u225	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u226	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I was hoping that even in this one case, which seems so obvious, one could say: well, we have some agreement, there is some agreement in the conversation. And here comes a professor who's been bullied for eight years... Professor, I feel sorry for your bullying. You've had a lot of fun, a lot of fun. And when you talk about intellectual courage, it's... Don't use that vocabulary. Reject that vocabulary of aggression. I know that eight years of the Platform's rule has left a huge mark on your psyche and appearances. I think you've lost touch with reality. I must say this so harshly after listening to you today. After all, we just want to know how television is financed. Whether or not she's been mismanaged for eight years, etc., is a completely different subject. Is he related to the subject matter of the bill discussed today? No. But you must be relieved to say we were... [[Mr. Augustine did the same thing.]] ...we were a victim... The communists and thieves and all the other things that you're bringing up here... Come on, talk normal, from heart to human. I would like to say this: what the Minister said about these various public television projects, about the history and other things that the Minister mentioned I'm not gonna tell you again... It's not like we're criticizing it! But if you're saying that what you're doing and... Please understand the Minister's statement. I asked if the Minister was satisfied with what public television shows. And what did the Minister say? He said what he said. Do you understand what he said? He said what he liked. And about what he didn't mention... Well, given the logic, I think he's having second thoughts. That's what I think. I want to quote you something. After yesterday's debate, Mrs. Danuta Holecka in the news... on the belt: there will be no referendum on the Constitution because the Civic Platform voted against. [[Voice from the room: Stupid.]] And, of course, there's nothing about the fact that there's been a abstaining vote, and so on... the whole time the blame is on the Platform. So this is... Well, I understand that if you were on the program board of Polish television, it would be: 8 years they need to be roast now. And you're talking about the public media... you're saying, "Leave us alone, because we want to work out our form of communication!"? Senator, you can show your form of transmission on your television, in your speeches you can show your form of transmission... You just told me about her. And if we've made mistakes and tortured you for eight years, then you'll be a fighter. The Institute of Fighting, Freedom and Martyrdom is about to be here and you will be the first hero! [[He'll be very well.]] After all, it is glory, Mr. Senator, to fight for Poland! And you've been fighting for eight years and you'll finally get your reward. And what does that mean, as you said, the standards of transmission? You know, we just want the standard of transmission on Polish television not to be near the norm of opposition. I'll guarantee it to you. But I also wish she'd stay away from what's on the stripes now. My colleague, who studied in the Soviet Union, is completely uninvolved politically, but at the convention she said: Leszek, I'll tell you this, I'm experiencing some déjà vu when I turned on television in Moscow, and I knew what power was doing, what power is telling me and what I'm supposed to think, and today, when I turn on Russia Today, I hear the same thing. But you know what the worst part is? The fact that when I turn on information programs in Poland is the same! Bo and Russia Today, and Polish TV on information In addition to those programs that you mentioned to the Minister, and a few others that I've seen, which have high ratings and a good reputation... The project called public information television is according to your standard: for 8 years... etc. And you're starting this argument. Well, it's like I heard you on TV. Mr. Senator, I suggest you go to Polish TV. You'll have a very good job there and you'll be fine there. You'll be able to expose your eight years of torment you've suffered. Like you said, you were tired... You need intellectual courage now. I would like to say that for Poland such intellectual courage, Mr. Senator, which you have just presented... She's angry, she's evil in my opinion. When it comes to what was wrong with the Civic Platform, me and a lot of my colleagues can admit... [[I wonder where and when.]] If you ask me, I can confess to you right now. Ask me, we'll have a separate debate. We expect that on Polish television, which has a public mission in the field of information, there is something called... which is the message of other public television in other countries. And when you read what messages are for people working on public television, you can see that they are fundamentally different from what people working on Polish public television are doing today in terms of information. Because it's different from what they do in many other countries, including public television. And that's all I want and that's all I'd ever want. I don't want anyone on public television bragging to me or any of us, but don't insult us, and if he's already slandering us, at least let him have some ground, even if he's duped out. Therefore, please don't go this way. And I'm truly sorry for your loss, because you've really been affected by these eight years of great agony and all that you've been through... Professor, I'm truly sorry for your loss. I wish you eight years of prosperity now... [[A lot of health!]] [[Thank you very much.]] ...health, I wish you the truth and the intellectual courage to speak the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u227	You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u228	Every time we talk about media, we focus on television. And that's how it is today. I've been much more eager to watch TV for some time. I'm on and I'm on with the Republic TV than I am with the public television. [[Really?]] Why? Because the best people from there left for public television, publicist... [[Joy in the Chamber]] And, therefore, these 2 TVs can already be watched, especially in the press programs. Because in prayers on Trwam Television I do not participate. This is the success of those 2 stations that had specific views and passed on these views. And they were private stations. Success. And I don't know if it's a problem, whether it's the happiness of public television... the first main charge I have for public television is not to respect the basic principle of journalism, which is to separate information from commentary. There's a comment there. It's information. It's like a dark character, something, something... The stripes, the stripes that emphasize this message, sharpen it, are part of television. These aren't spontaneous messages. Is the National Council happy with these stripes? Does he take care of these stripes? How many complaints to the National Council were there in the last year? Does this number increase, decrease? I'll admit I'm on duty to watch public television programs, which I call Jack's television since my ex-boyfriend's name. I'm watching, by obligation. And I've already stopped counting and writing notes that show serious violations of the principle of journalistic objectivity, the principle of certain art and journalistic workshop. Maybe because these reporters don't have this workshop... But if they don't, they should have bought it by now. You can't mix comments with information. That's the basic rule in journalism. And it's not like that, folks, that television was yours, and now it's ours. How is it yours? I'm paying for it. If that's the case, why am I paying for it? Television... and this bill guarantees, but this bill just doesn't work, it doesn't work at all. If yesterday's information from the public television diva, Mrs. Holecka, that the Platform's votes were rejected by the presidential referendum, then what is it? Information, comment? Is that true? [[That's a lie.]] I am not going to protest this because on public television I heard that the Platform was the first success in the Senate, i.e. The minority group rejected what most people wanted. Because the majority wanted this referendum, right? Well, this kind of propaganda, because it's already propaganda, has a reaction only in your electorate segment, only in the PiS electorate. And I'm talking about it today, just like some of my colleagues, because it happened yesterday, yesterday, there was this kind of information. And each of you, senators sitting here, knows perfectly well that this is a lie that this is manipulation. But it's manipulative! It's just a lie, isn't it? Public television can't serve that kind of stuff. [[That's what the marshal said.]] Public television is also judgmental. He's not just giving information, he's judging. The charge? That means he's already convicted. Interrogation? That means he's convicted. You can see the D.A.'s office or CBA dating TV. You can see those cameras that are waiting, you can see how close they are, they show handcuffs. Is it the role of public television to cross the fate of people who haven't been convicted? No. So please don't resent the fact that less and less citizens are paying for public television. Because if this TV is like this, I'm going to stop paying, too, even though I believe that the bill must be implemented by the citizen. But there is such a thing as civil disobedience when a red line is overstepped. So I have an appeal to the Minister, both: you have constitutional obligations... [[Tools...]] ...you know what the situation is, you have tools and you have certain responsibilities in relation to these positions you are in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u229	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law - Press Law. The text of the act is contained in print No 922, and the report of the committee In print No 922 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Grzegorz Czelej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill submitted to the Senate on the amendment of the Law is aimed at updating the provisions of the Act and adapting them to the amendments made in the related laws. This law was passed by the Sejm without doubt and without reservation. At its meeting on Tuesday, the committee was unanimously adopted without discussion and reservations. Of course, it also did not raise any legislative objections. I therefore request that the bill be adopted without amendment on behalf of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u231	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, because right now the senators can report a question to the Senator of the rapporteur from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Jarosław Sellin wish to speak on behalf of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: No.]] That is not the Minister's intention. Senators can now submit no more than a minute of query to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. So I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u232	We're waiting for CBA's boss. If he can hear us... [[Voice from the hall: I'm sure he hears.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Is this CBA information now?]] ...you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, will there be a CBA report now?]] Yes. [[Maybe we should start at the 20th point, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Can't we do the shipping before?]] [[Exactly.]] [[Sail...]] [[Oh, yeah.]] [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau: Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'm here, I'm here.]] It's okay. Come on in. You get ready and I'll give you a formula... We proceed with the examination of item thirty-nine of the agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's activities in 2017. The text of the information is contained in print No 777. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 27 June 2018, the Commission heard the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, Mr. Ernest Beja, present at the Senate meeting. [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau: Hello, Mr. Marshal. Hello, High House.]] I ask the head of the Central Bureau of Corruption to speak and present information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The year 2017 is the next year of intensive work of the Central Anti-corruption Office, the implementation of the main tasks, the time of continuation of actions. Let me remind you that the task of the Central Anti-corruption Office is to combat corruption in social and economic life, as well as to uphold the economic interests of the state. I believe that the activities carried out in 2017 contributed primarily to the efficiency of the office, but also to the increase in operational capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, the activities were intense, the office is growing in staff and organizationally. The result of these actions, according to the report, is the magnitude of the losses that the Office revealed in 2017 They amount to more than PLN 1 billion 705 million. This is more than three times the size of 2016. The value of the benefits disclosed is more than PLN 194 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention that over PLN 100 million is the amount of secured property and the so-called provisions issued. property security in the case of persons who have been accused. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards other statistics on activity in the field of criminal detection and prosecution, I would like to mention that in 2017 the Bureau conducted 555 preparatory proceedings, i.e. investigations, with or without the prosecutor's office. The investigation is most often entrusted to the Central Anti-corruption Office in its entirety by the D.A.'s office. We often worked with other services I'm going to mention the military police, the Homeland Security Agency and, of course, the police. As far as operational matters are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, statistics are as follows: operational cases were conducted in 2017 441, 192 were initiated and 148 were completed. Ladies and gentlemen, these are dry statistics. I'm about to move on to pointing out, signaling, discussing certain matters that are relevant from the office's point of view. I would also like to encourage some reflections of the general nature à about directions, interests and these elements in 2017, which seem particularly important in terms of the economic interest of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, there were 555 preparatory proceedings, out of which 256 were initiated and 174 were completed. I point once again to the issue of the amount of thinning and secured property, but it is worth mentioning here, ladies and gentlemen, how many preventive measures have been taken. This shows a bit of the quality of CBA's cases, also in the annual report. I do not want to absoluteize these preventive measures, of course, but they will give a picture. As regards the preventive measure in the form of temporary detention, 121 temporary detentions were used in 2017 in cases conducted by the CBA. I would like to remind you that in 2015 there were 29 such preventive measures, and in 2016 there were 38 such measures. As for the second preventive measure, which I would like to draw attention to, this is a property guarantee. These measures have been applied 218. This is almost double the increase compared to 2016, because in 2016 there were these preventive measures 124 and in 2015 I pay attention to these two elements. After all, they are important and show some commitment and quality of office work. All the other preventive measures of police supervision, the suspension in the business activities was already more than 22. The ban on leaving the country was 749. In total, the charges were heard, as I said, 705 people. Those charges were $3,000. So this is statistics, ladies and gentlemen. Now a little bit about the areas in which the Office's activities have been carried out, to the extent that I can, of course, make this available to you, the High House and the public. In very many cases, the public knows these matters, at least in the form of a signal, because together with the prosecutor's office we inform about the actions when they can already be informed. There's a stage in the case. But here's what I'm thinking: a very important area of activity for the Central Bureau of Corruption, which I'd like to draw attention to. and 2017 was the year of the continuation of this activity In general, there is an area for combating fraud, fraud, fraud and fraud. The element of tax fraud is so-called. carousel offences aimed either at extorting a tax on goods and services by obtaining an undue refund, or at reducing or not paying CIT tax, right? That's corporate income tax. Alternatively, PIT tax, personal income tax, which is to a lesser extent... We focus on entities with legal personality, so I think mainly of CIT here. The activities of organised criminal groups focus on these 2 areas. As we know, the losses of the State Treasury in these 2 areas were huge, and the omissions were huge. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the Central Anti-corruption Office has introduced new methods to combat this type of crime. I pointed out last year that we tried to implement it, that we implemented it. I am thinking about the 2016 report, but in 2017 we continued this process. Ladies and gentlemen, as you may know, This is a well-known fact that criminal groups were even insistently announced in connection with the sale of the so-called. costs. Right? Well, in the press or in other media there were announcements selling costs. What's this? It's not really anything but offering the so-called. empty invoices, which do not reflect any legal events and which are intended solely, as I said, to reduce the tax due on goods and services, as well as to reduce CIT, i.e. income tax. In previous years, these announcements were actually completely out of the interest of criminal law enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, the CBA has put in place an effective method. It is simply that the legal instruments that are at the disposal of the Central Anti-corruption Office have been used. Here I am thinking about the purchase procedure for controlled and controlled sales and the use of operational combinations. The CBA has detected and revealed a number of organized criminal groups that use these exact methods. It turns out that we are the only service that has applied this method effectively. The agreement of the Attorney General is required to implement this procedure and we have obtained such consent. I would like to say that earlier, when the Attorney General was a government-independent body, the prosecution's policy was that this kind of action was not allowed. I think it was one of the key elements, let's call it, to recognise and effectively fight these crimes, because the advantage of general prevention after disclosure and arresting these people, arresting them... This method is very effective, it allows the entire group to reveal, to effectively work it out, to infiltrate it, of course, using other methods such as operational control, and in a prior way, which I would like to draw attention to, i.e. before the budget is reduced in the form of VAT fraud or e.g. Introduction... There are different ways in which these so-called "introductions" can be introduced. empty invoices. I'll remind you of one of our cases. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very, very simple way, 3 invoices for more than PLN 500 million have been issued. It was about the trading of fictional mobile phones. These invoices were sold by one fictional company to the other company. This company showed this in its VAT report, but it was immediately sold to another company which already had an appropriate permit to trade liquid fuels. And in this way, the company that has a permit to trade liquid fuels, buying a company with, let's call it, calculated, ready-to-tax, may not pay VAT at all, because it has 100 million resulting from these previous transactions on empty invoices. I don't have to tell you what a competitive advantage this is. By bringing in fuel, we just don't pay VAT. That's just one way, isn't it? We've been able to detect it in one of the cases, but there's been a lot more. I don't mean to say that they were... Well, the office's operational capabilities are limited. What is important, ladies and gentlemen? Well, the office, in agreement with the National Tax Administration, started training activities. I would like to say that the National Tax Administration has, after the amendment, a virtually identical legal instrument as the Central Anti-corruption Office. It can use both controlled purchasing methods and operational control. We believe that after training KAS officers who are excellent in post-factum control, who have excellent knowledge and discernment and are the dominant service... Well, if we add this component on the use of an offensive operating method, these additional influences and these seals will have a very real character. Besides, they already have a real character, we see it in statistics and reports. I think this is the field of activity of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2017, which is worth highlighting and worth showing you here in the Senate. The second element that we note and which I think is worth passing on to the High House here is such reflections of a general nature. This applies to the sphere of widely understood fraud, not only tax, but also financial. As it seems, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of the office shows that financial fraud is related to the use of certain financial instruments; I am referring here to assets such as bonds, especially corporate bonds, and so-called. investment funds closed. This is also a kind of instrument with legal personality; here we have a separate law on turnover. I will only draw attention to the special powers, or actually the privilege of placing funds of closed investment funds. Namely, they are subject to tax exemption. Ladies and gentlemen, our experience in the past year shows that the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, as well as the knowledge of the services involved in the trading of these instruments, should the existing rules be taken into account, is insufficient, i.e. a lot of things are detected post factum. Let me give you one concrete example. Well, ladies and gentlemen, after statutory changes in the issue of corporate bonds, there is no obligation to inform the head of KNF, the Financial Supervision Commission before... i.e. There is no so-called. the prior information, we are dealing with an enduring obligation here. KNF doesn't see it, it only sees those bonds that are subject to the so-called. Public turnover. It is also, of course, an estimated market of billions of zlotys, but in the case of the issue of corporate bonds it seems to be a market of tens of billions of zlotys. I don't want to make a mistake here; I'm about to tell you how much is in the FIZ. A situation where these financial instruments are not entirely issued leads to major risks, because very often the aggressive policies of some companies are reduced to the continuous issuance of successive shares of these debt instruments, the rolling of the previous ones. And as a result, it creates financial pyramids and very high risks. In our view, it is a very important element to think about changing this in the legislative process. And it doesn't have to be a change to lead to a situation that restricts turnover. The idea is to try, without restricting marketing, to increase the flow of prior information to the NCF and at the same time to the services that are authorised through certain legislative changes. This isn't about obtaining permission, it's really about informing. I think it is very important at all to reflect on the change and enhancement of the competences of the KNF, the Financial Supervision Committee, especially in the area of coordination of its activities with the services. We see here a field to improve e.g. in such a way as to make timely detection of certain phenomena which may later have serious consequences for the financial stability of the markets, the Polish market... I think here not only of the banking market, but also of insurance, etc., etc. The example of GetBack is just one example, which shows that it is worth considering some legislative changes in this area that would improve the financial supervision capacity and the authorities dedicated to the identification and detection of and prevention of crimes affecting the economic interests of the State. I'm thinking about the police here, but I'm thinking about the Secret Service. This would allow coordinated action to prevent such dangerous practices as well as information activities. Because please note that companies issuing these debt instruments make this issue in a very large volume; these are billions of zlotys, not even hundreds of millions, but billions of zlotys. So we're really dealing with a situation here... Let us imagine that later it is bought by ordinary citizens, influenced by bank specialists, often aggressively, and convinced of the security of these instruments, while reality looks quite different. As a result, these people are left alone and, on the other hand, we have bankruptcy or financial problems for the companies that these debt securities issue. Yet, ladies and gentlemen, one comment concerning investment funds, and for me this is also a special matter. They're called. certificates of participation in these investment funds. I don't want to go into details, but I'm gonna say one thing. The amount of funds placed in these closed investment funds, i.e. those benefiting from the tax exemption, amounts to PLN 160 billion. As you can see, this is a very serious sum. The number of these investment funds closed is over 1 000. In fact, KNF's information about their creation and turnover is also post factum and KNF's knowledge in this area is very limited. You can imagine that the access of other services to data is limited as well. I am signaling this problem because, according to our findings, resulting from operational cases, in 2017, investment in closed investment funds was often a screen, a way of not paying taxes, making so-called. aggressive optimization, and, to put it simply, commit fraud and transfer these means and as if to commit further crimes, i.e. those so-called. follow-up to money laundering. The basis for the regulation on exempting investment funds closed from taxation was the argument that the money that is in the country is being transferred to tax havens and is basically not used anyway, so we propose This was, it seems, 2011 the introduction of this kind of relief... sorry, tax exemptions for investment in an investment fund closed and thus, first, they will be in the country and second, they will be invested, although they will not be taxed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is not true according to our findings. They don't stay in the country, they're not invested in us, and they're not taxed in our country. Thus, not one of these elements has been implemented. I'm paying attention to that because it's a problem, it seems, of a systemic nature, if you consider the number I've told you about. PLN 160 billion. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if someone wants and invests their turnover, they still bear the costs of activities that are de facto exempt from taxation, because this investment is, in short, in great simplification, the cost of obtaining income, i.e. it reduces the tax base. So the question is why invest in FIZ is to be completely exempt from tax. This is also, ladies and gentlemen, a matter which I strongly wish to point out, which results from the activity of the office in 2017. It seems that this is a reflection of de lege ferenda, as regards the High Senate, as well as the Sejm and the relevant bodies, I am thinking of a government that should be... We have, of course, signaled this, and I also want to say this in the High House's forum, because of course I assume that the work, and the studies that are going to lead to change, are being conducted in this direction and will be conducted. I mentioned these two elements. Another element which was the subject of the activity of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2017 and here I am thinking not only of the investigative activity, but also of control, in some sense of the activity aimed at preventing, i.e. the so-called. prevention is the sphere of operation of companies of the State Treasury or with the participation of the State Treasury. We had a number of cases here, too. I also said in the previous year that we are going to create a certain control system, but not a strict control of sense, that we enter, like the Supreme Audit Chamber, into each of the companies and check, only in which we are able to analyse certain activities related to the activities of these companies in certain areas. We've created a base covering a certain sphere of contract. These are intangible contracts. Legal services, marketing, services, as I said, intangible, insurance issues, etc. As far as these services are concerned, companies with the State Treasury are statistically processing information to the Central Anti-corruption Office. And then you can see what's more or less the situation in the case. The first example from the edge of the legal service or marketing activities. We've been working on a public life disclosure bill. For various reasons, this bill right now... The works were completed, but in this project there was a regulation imposing on companies with the participation of the Treasury the obligation to report in the statistical formula... This is a bit like a single control file. It's about the sales and purchases report. We're talking about entrepreneurs. It serves something else. The sealing of the tax sphere, but such a thing was foreseen. We have a prosthesis in this area right now. For our part, we are preparing a special system of analysis of state registers, which, combined with access to other databases to which we have direct access, will allow us to generate information about the threat in advance and take appropriate action. This is very important, fundamental, because that's when we perform a preventive function. But in order to be able to do it, you need access to the data. And the word à about access to data and activity of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2017 in this context. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've joined the government, the Ministry of Finance, on the broader sealing of the system. There have been work on two such main laws. The first is a law restricting VAT fraud. The so-called "introduction" has been introduced. STIR, i.e. a system for banks to inform about all B2B transactions, business is business, i.e. between entrepreneurs, as well as between entrepreneurs and individuals. This data resource is to be transferred in a complete and uniform manner to the Ministry of Finance. The second element of this system is the so-called. a uniform control file. As you know, entrepreneurs are obliged to provide, in addition to information about tax obligations, information, let's call it sales and purchase. It's about informing about these basic activities. This, in comparison with the information about the tax due, will allow for a real and, which is very important, without the need to initiate controls It can be said that from the position of a financial analyst having access to these 2 databases An analysis shall be carried out and certain risks shall be identified in advance so that they can be dealt with effectively. This is a matter of accessing the Central Bureau of Corruption to these bases. We're in the middle of talking to the Ministry of Finance about this. As far as the legal basis is concerned, they are, of course. The second law is the anti-money laundering law. There are bank reports at stake here, very important. This law has been amended so that the transfer of information from banks is uniform and the response on the part of the Ministry of Finance or state services is faster. We're entitled to access this database. I'm talking about a system of analysis and state registers. In a situation where we have access to these databases, correlated with other databases It's about the base of perpetual books, KRS, KRK, ZUS, PESEL, etc... This together will provide a component of knowledge, whose statistical processing and analysis will enable us to generate information that will help us to first and foremost prevent negative phenomena. I am thinking here not only of the Central Anti-corruption Office, but also of other institutions working to prosecute, identify, control these adverse events. This is, for example. The National Tax Administration, which has tens of thousands of people for this. So I think, of course, the resources of specialists are limited here, but it is not, Ladies and gentlemen, the truth that these specialists, financial analysts, must be immensely much, in order to really control all this, inform and then, eventually, only at the very end, fight or pursue. Because, like I said, criminal prosecution is a function. so-called. ultima ratio, which is the final right. It's much better, really. It may be a cliché, but I'll repeat it. Prevent and recognize than pursue. Since this is criminal prosecution, effective prosecution is, Dear Sirs, expensive. I will now go to the statistics on this exact execution of the criminal prosecution function, or actually in the field of operational work, because at the moment the rules allow you, the High House, to show you the statistical information on the involvement of the office à with regard to the use of certain operational methods. I am thinking here of operational control, i.e., to put it directly, wiretap, and the institution of buying controlled or controlled acceptance and granting property benefits. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, the Bureau applied 540 operational inspections, there were 4 prosecutor general's refusals and no court refusals. It appears statistically that this operational control is adapted... About 300 people, 298 or 295 people. And now when it comes to comparison with previous years, it looks like this. A year... I don't know, let's start from 2014 to 397; 2015 to 384; 2016 to 368. In 2017, as I said It's 540. As far as the procedure for buying a controlled, controlled delivery or admission is concerned, I will also allow myself to quote the statistics here. In 2014, 6 in 2015, 6 in 2016, 15 and 2017 32 in. So this also shows an increase in the use of this procedure. As I said, it is effective, although it can be controversial. We have evidence here. Even in the case law of the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, I am the person who thinks that I am not just expressing my opinion here, but also the opinion of the vast majority of services who use this method. That she's effective. And it is absolutely a method that, applied on the basis and within the limits of the law, does not cause a situation of abuse, and really contributes in a general way to the identification and detection of the most difficult crimes, Ladies and gentlemen. That's it, short notice, when it comes to matters related to... I don't want to talk about things. I've cited some examples. I think this is very detailed on the website. We also inform quite extensively about these developments in detentions, they include a very wide circle of people, they concern important, I think, and worth emphasising Not only things from the past, Ladies and Gentlemen, but also things that happen and concern the present. I'll just remind you. I'm gonna let you remind me of that again. For example, the detention of a group of persons from 2 companies Lotos and Azota, also as a result of a special operation, an operational combination. That's where they stopped, among other things. Chairman of the Supervisory Board. I'll remind you of the operations in the companies, let's call it coal mining. You will remember this action in the middle of last year, where the vice president was detained in a red-handed act of accepting a property advantage of PLN 40,000. Such detention is not a simple matter. We did it. Nevertheless, it is not the only person... Because I would like to say that as regards the activity of the CBS resulting from the criminal prosecution function and the wider area of coal extraction and trade, not only the vice president was detained, but also the manager, 4 directors of mines, dean of the University of Technology for accepting the benefits, head of the higher mining office, presidents of 5 companies around the mine... You could go on, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to close the broadcast here. But there are a lot of things. My conclusion is this: they are not just about the past. The best example, ladies and gentlemen, is this House, because we have a few issues concerning parliamentarians. Well, unfortunately, this applies to corruption crimes that are widely understood. I can only say this, and I regret to say that not every parliamentary activity, as I say, is legal. The ones we detected... I draw attention to the fact that you cannot addict your activities, actions to others, because a parliamentarian, a Member, a Senator... I do not want to look like a man who teaches the honourable states in the High House, it is rather such a reflection on certain dangers, because you sometimes do not see, sometimes in your naivety you meet with different people, and you are not able to find out who is who. We talked about this at the committee meeting. But sometimes it is, ladies and gentlemen. We've registered it and shown it. The fact that the activity of parliamentarians can be dependent on personal benefits or benefits, let's call it, for our friends, or people associated with them in some way. Well, that's a crime. It's not just breaking the law, but it's a crime, and CBA's in. Of course, we are generally concerned with the control of claims of property and the control of compliance with the provisions of the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, a difficult name, a long one. As far as parliamentarians are concerned, I would like to say that our control is as follows. You could say that she has actually 3 stages. There is an effect, let's call it, the practice developed by the Central Anti-corruption Bureau. The first stage is so-called. the stage of control of all senators and Members passing through an developed algorithm. This is the first stage. Second stage: if as a result of this set-up check, due to the application of certain algorithms comes out some irregularities or inaccuracies, this is pre-control analysis being carried out. This is stage two. If these irregularities cannot be remedied, then there is a third stage, namely the formal initiation of controls. Several people are usually controlled, which also does not mean, Dear Members, that this is some suspicion of committing a crime, because in the vast majority these checks end positively. But I want to show you what it looks like, let's call it, a scheme and a system for carrying out checks. I think it's quite effective. Of course, the disadvantage of our property statement system, which was also the subject of the public disclosure law, is, first of all, incoherence, because we have probably 12 different forms of statements. I think we can learn here, for example. from Ukraine or Romania, where there is 1 formula. Secondly, this formula is implemented in the control bodies How it happens, let's leave it, but I'm talking about a system. By electronic means, so that they can analyze it calmly. We've got paper here... Well, it's not gonna be easy to get through this, but I think it's the right way. So, first of all, there is a need for harmonisation and a very clear transmission related to this codification, which should actually be found here so that there is no doubt. I am talking about this because very often there are doubts and the cause of impreciseness, let's call it, the wrong filling in of such a statement are inaccurate phrases used in the form. I think we need to get back to this work. That is also the reason for our involvement in the anti-corruption strategy. We are determined to harmonise, improve and present to the State, persons with public functions 1 model, which would be the only model in force. We're on our way. I think that's what I said. The work on this will continue. The second element is control, Ladies and Gentlemen, again in connection with this Act on the limitation of the conduct of business and property claims carried out by persons performing functions... I'm thinking about members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, this office also carries out an audit once a quarter. She's mostly in control of a conflict of interest that might exist. Anyway, this is done once a quarter. All members of the government, ministers and vice-ministers, are subject to such control. I repeat, this is not the initiation of formal control, it is simply conducting an analysis, sometimes involving a speech to some member of the government to possibly answer questions formulated by the office. As far as other checks are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, these checks are again 161 and pre-control analyses 631. So, as you can see, there's been a lot of that, mostly when it comes to public procurement. The second component of the interests of the Central Anti-corruption Office is the widely understood distribution of the European Union's aid resources, and it is at the level of the Marshals of the voivodship, i.e. regional operational programmes, the coordination control that we started in 2016 and we ended in 2017 but not only. There are other management institutions, not only the marshals of the voivodships. Management institutions are the voivodship boards, are ministries, are NCBR, PARP, ARP, etc., etc. After all, there are plenty of institutions dedicated to distributing these funds. We also work with the Ministry of Finance and even with OLAF, i.e. an EU institution dedicated to carrying out audits to verify this. So in this respect, both control and investigative activities, because there are cases that go into this investigative mode. I don't know, producer groups, fruit and vegetable producer groups. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the form of certain recurring patterns, of course with variances, i.e., first of all, falsifying applications, i.e. submission of false data. Secondly, then, when you get a permit, it's costing, colloquially speaking, right?, increasing them so that these costs are as high as possible. The third point is the question. Just friends and corrupting those who allocate these funds. So, yes, the worst part is, it looks like a criminal scheme, of course, if it comes to it. We have many observations of a general nature. We have informed about them, about their use, especially in the innovative economy. I think the Central Bureau of Corruption is not the leading authority in this area, but, as I say, we present our information to the governing authorities. And I can go to the third field of activity, that is, beyond checks, ladies and gentlemen, we have the so-called. analytical and information activities. I also mentioned this activity on anti-tax crime and our commitment to legislation, but not only. Here's where I'll pay attention. I'm going to repeat what I said in previous years. We are very involved in the processes related to state IT. In short, we support, cover state offices, state institutions for reform and development of IT systems that operate in these institutions. I have spoken of this, ladies and gentlemen, but I will repeat this too, that there is a lot to do here. The most interesting example is the Social Insurance Institution and KSI, i.e. its National Information System. We are dealing with the so-called. the situation of dependence on one contractor, the monopoly of that contractor, and this is again linked to the way these contracts were concluded in previous years, the control of source code, copyright, etc., etc. Right? So these are pretty complicated things. The result is that, above all, the authorities pay, and they don't really know what for. They're not even able to control it properly. They overpay and have no other choice, so they can't give up and really change that state. It's a terrible story. We are engaged both in the Ministry of Digitalization, in the Ministry of Health, in their IT system, in the ZUS... Oh, the best example in the ZUS. Turns out, however, the bid could have been won by someone else, although this is not the end of the case. So she won another company, Comarch, not Asseco, for the first time in years. And, interestingly enough, the cost was reduced by 60% in a decisive way. Now it's 242 million for a four-year-old... and before that it was about 700... So you can see that commitment and continuous work have tangible results. It's not like this Gordian knot can't be solved. Yeah, well, you just need to get involved. Of course, I can say that there is very good cooperation and understanding with the President of the Social Insurance Institution. But, I think, not only. Ministry of Digitalisation Very many projects that are organized in the field of IT. We are also involved, ladies and gentlemen, in the work on projects concerning Safe communication, because it is generally the Achilles heel of state institutions in Poland, and secure communication is fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of educational and preventive activities, this is also part of the involvement of the office. It may not be so exposed, but I think it's important and kind of completes the office's work. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we conducted 126 trainings and trained almost 6 000 officials. These trainings included 84 institutions. Moreover, we have the so-called. an e-learning system that has been implemented in previous years. It's kind of a remote training. Using the e-learning system, anyone can use it by logging in to the right page. More than 59,000 people have benefited from this. Of course, the office is also active in international cooperation. We participate in conferences of the Group of States Against Corruption, i.e.GRECO, bilateral, multi-rateral meetings in Paris, Riga. I can say that we have a particularly good relationship with, so to speak, fellow services in the Baltic countries, namely Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, but also Ukraine. Interestingly, with the Ukrainian National Anti-corruption Office we have a signed agreement which is not purely formal. It is real, we meet, we exchange information on a daily basis, and we support ourselves operationally in many matters. NABU is a small unit, but it must be said to be active. It has about 700 people and has already been successful in fighting corruption. I would like to say that together with NABU, we have undertaken the task of covering the loan provided by the Republic of Poland of EUR 100 million. These are funds for Ukraine to develop road infrastructure, which is to approximate... It is about this cross-border infrastructure that reaches the borders of the Commonwealth. And in this respect, we are working together to, let's call it, legally issuing the considerable resources that we have given Ukraine for this very project. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the number of officers at the end of the previous year, it was 842 officers and 150 employees. A total of 992 people. In fact, more than 100 people were admitted to the office, but unfortunately some 30 officers have also left, and as a result the situation has increased slightly by more than 60 people. At the moment, we're conducting intensive recruitment. We want to increase employment by several hundred people. Well, maybe this year we can hire 400 people. As I said, last year more than 100 people were admitted to the Central Anti-corruption Office. Last year's budget amounted to PLN 157 million, and we received additional support from the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 million from the reserve and an amount of 84 million for the purchase of real estate. It was a special reserve, it was called. non-extinguishables. We financed the purchase of new properties in Poznań for 7 million 763 thousand, in Rzeszów for 2 million 304 thousand and in Łódź for 5 million 700 thousand. Unfortunately, no real estate was purchased at the office in Warsaw. We have a problem because we have 2 headquarters, one of which is commercially rented. Nevertheless, we dealt with it in such a way that... Well, there was no purchase, although we tried in different places, but we received a building from the Ministry of Digitalization after the liquidation of the Institute of Mathematical Machines, a building in a good location. We're in the middle of a permanent transition to the board of directors. This is a large building that will allow us perhaps in the foreseeable future. I think that this will happen next year to give up commercial rental and move officers to a new headquarters in the center of Warsaw. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a handful of information I would like to present to you. I also want to thank all the Central Anti-corruption Bureau officers for their service and commitment. I think their actions contribute well... are good for the Republic of Poland. For this, thank you very much to all the officers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u234	Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office any questions? Senator Rybicki, excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u235	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the checklist. It follows from these statistics that as many as 53% of cases were initiated on the basis of anonymous information and other reports of irregularities when control proceedings were initiated in 2017. I would like to ask you why such a large number of control cases, more than half, are being initiated on the basis of anonymity. And if you'd like to tell me what these other reports of irregularities are... Because on the neighbouring page we have information about the effects of completed control cases, and it says that on these 1,200 cases until 600 cases there were no significant irregularities found. How do you compare these two? Would you care to comment and explain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u236	Thank you. You will be the second to ask the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u237	Mr. Marshal, these are so complicated questions... I don't know if you're gonna charge the Minister with a series of... [[Excuse me?]] These are complicated questions, quite complicated... [[Great. Ask complicated questions.]] Good. Minister, it's a good thing you're after criminals. It's clear. Especially this elite service, which is directed at specific groups, operates and operates. Good. But tell me... I noticed some cooperation or coincidence between CBA actions and the preparation of media, i.e. television, especially public. Often there are situations where you stop, take them out in handcuffs, and the TV crew stands and waits. It requires some preparation, bringing in a crew, etc. How does it look from such a real side, whether you're giving the officers permission to notify or not... Is the rule that... what's the rule? In some cases, it's done on TV, not on others.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Prime Minister Szydło, as Minister Jackiewicz appealed, announced that there would be a large audit of the CBA in the Treasury companies. It was 2016. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think this audit has seen the light of day. The question is whether it was created and why we do not have access to it if it was created.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u240	Thank you very much. Now you should ask Senator Rulewski a question, but I think he's busy on the phone. [[I'm finishing up.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u241	This is the rule of law committee... Mr. President... [[Minister, Minister.]] Mr President, don't you think there are too many advertising elements in your business, epatching public opinion? Continuing the question, by extending the question of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... How is it that only pro-government stations, not even public stations or media funds receive information, I would say, news and even use documentation later? That's one thing. Secondly, don't you think you're kind of marked by a fever towards politicians? The matter that you have stressed and which we all know is not the case at all that there is a need for harsh measures, especially since these people themselves express their willingness to cooperate and the State refuses to cooperate. Here's another one. It is widely said in the media that huge capital flows to other countries. I understand it's about the countries with which we have the most commercial contacts, the West. At the same time, we know that there is also order in those countries and that there is a race for those who hide income in Poland, precisely funds from illegal sources, e.g. from falsifying accounts or even moving money directly. And at the same time, you write that you're cooperating. So it looks like only Poland is being robbed, and we don't rake others. Yes? Then maybe we need to train our thieves to rob the rich. There's more money to steal. Isn't that part of some kind of propaganda that, unfortunately, is very restrictive of economic activity? Minister, the Tusk government, as I recall, has adopted an anti-corruption shield program. As I hear it, after three years of government, you are just making conclusions that coordination needs to be increased, so I understand it, with the Financial Supervision Committee and probably with other ministries... Don't you think the CBA may not be the fault of its own? Is it too late to build an anti-corruption shield? Another question. Corruption within commercial companies, especially those with distributed shares... After all, it is not that corruption is only about property or government management. She's also in private commercial companies. There we are dealing with corruption at the expense of shareholders These are simple things, such as employing friends, and more complex ones, such as fraud, e.g. in cooperatives at the expense of the co-operatives. Do you work in cooperatives, in institutions such as cooperatives, in the fight against corruption? [[Period.]] Period. Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u242	As the last question in this round, I will give the floor to Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u243	Minister, I'd like to ask if... You mentioned it in your report on GetBack. This, of course, is the domain of the Financial Supervision Authority, maybe the Stock Exchange, maybe the UOKiK. The Bureau is also observing the situation in this area. Was the Bureau informed on this matter, and did it analyse the situation in any way? What do we learn from this, and what are the consequences? That's the first question. The second question is whether... Your deputy, Mr Grzegorz Ocieczek, in an interview given to the professional press, said that it is worth considering and perhaps introducing the so-called "in Poland." integrity tests, a method of some provocation against officials and subjecting them, in quotes, to a test of integrity. Does the office intend to do so, and is it preparing to introduce such a mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u244	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to answer the questions one at a time. Senator Libicki started here with a question about control matters. Let me put it this way: Gradation is... This should be divided into three spheres. In fact, the audit case is a reporting and information position, which is the primary involvement of the control department and the control departments in the various delegations. In short, this is the easiest type of case. They can often affect e.g. Anonymous information. Then the so-called. the review case. She's not pre-control analysis yet. The second, let's call it, a more advanced type is pre-control analysis. As you can see, we have 1 000 285, 630 pre-control analyses, and the controls themselves, which are already like 100% action. formalized, it's only 161. That's why there's a difference. As far as gradation is concerned, as I say, control matters are also beginning... It's not a check to be clear. This is a basic form of checking information in the field of control. Annually it comes to us from sources, let's call it, open more than 18 thousand different informations. They need to be distributed between control, operational, analytical departments. It's kind of descriptively shown how, let's call it, we're analyzing these cases. Indeed, there are anonymitys in control cases, and there is no doubt about that. Perhaps this presentation is not the most transparent. Then there's analytical stuff. They look a little different. Right? And finally there are checks, which are the least, but they are already a formalized procedure. Then the audit protocols are created and all these elements appear, which result from the law, i.e. conclusions, notices, information on infringements, requests for staff changes, organizational changes, etc. These are all elements that build the system. It is a part of the activity concerning control on the one hand of claims of property and, on the other hand, the decisions which it is the subject of, generally speaking, the disposal of public funds. I'm talking about economic decisions of all kinds. That's my answer. As for the matter that you have asked about, Senator, about GetBack, today I was talking about the fact that this is a problem that remains in the interest of the office, although, as I say, the main office dedicated to analysis and first response to problems related to dishonest or even, you can say, beyond the business risk limit of the entities, is the Financial Supervision Commission, or actually UKNF, the Financial Supervision Authority. Given the state... It's not like we don't have any information. We get information, but maybe we get it too late. What else is coordination on operational interests and cooperation between special services... There is a system that ensures this coordination. He provides an exchange of information. We can discuss its flaws, but such a system exists. It has been operating for years and gives the opportunity to really coordinate its interests with the involvement of a government factor in the form of a minister coordinator. KNF is not a special service. This is an office which has the task of countering, protecting the market and ensuring that business activities in the banking, financial, etc. are carried out in a fair manner. And here it seems worth it... We have an agreement and we can exchange data, but it is worth considering increasing the powers and, above all, increasing the staff composition of the Financial Supervision Commission. It'll allow... I told you that we also know that KNF knows that. That there are 1 000 investment funds closed. KNF analyzes prospectuses when it comes to stock debuts. It shall also analyse prospectuses on the issue of corporate bonds in the field of public trading. But there's still a whole sphere, as I said, of private turnover. So this is a very serious area, especially if you take into account the complex mechanisms used by criminal groups, with very good facilities of specialists, analysts, lawyers, etc., etc. But in this area, I see... It's not that I'm discovering it after three years or we're discovering it. I think that reality is changing a lot, and we have to respond to this reality, and I think that some changes are necessary here. When it comes to GetBack himself, of course we got the information. We're investigating with the D.A.'s office. A dozen people have been detained in this case. They've been charged and they've been arrested. I can say that from the moment we started to take an interest in this matter, very quickly, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a realization. And that's colloquialism again. The case is developmental. Well, as you know, the company was trading huge amounts of money, because the issue of bonds alone was PLN 2.5 billion. I mean. This company rotates them, there is, well, there is a proceeding. All I can tell you is that this area of prior communication is extremely important. And just so we're clear, it's not just GetBack. It is very important that economic engagements that take the form of, for example, are detected earlier. financial pyramids, that is, what constitutes a bubble, which in the future will break and end in disaster. There are very many possibilities here, I think, to improve certain information flows. But it is also not a simple assessment that you should know this and be aware of it, because, as I say, it is many different projects that are disguised, hidden and as if invisible. This is also the case, because economic activity is also the fact that in principle none of the companies shows their entire activity due to, for example, the objectives and competition in the market. As I said, it would be important here to make some changes and certain safeguards for corporate bonds, for example, or to consider investment certificates in closed investment funds. Therefore, as other Senators have also pointed out, it is important to increase coordination and cooperation with KNF, it seems crucial, extremely important and we will certainly deepen this cooperation. I think reality is complex and it'll help us prevent it. a certain phenomenon, but we certainly will not eliminate negative phenomena from the market. When it comes to auditing in companies of the State Treasury, it is about why there is no access to this... Well, it is so, ladies and gentlemen, that there was information from the Prime Minister, who spoke about the audit. We gave some of the reports to the government. Some of them also have clauses. We've been passing on... It doesn't have the form of one act, it's scattered. And I would also like to make it clear that as a result of our information, various decisions were made, including staff decisions. I think that the flow of knowledge, as regards companies of the Treasury, has significantly improved and allows us to prevent certain negative phenomena, which does not mean that we will eliminate them. The best example of this is PGE, one of the companies mentioned here, at Szczecin, a daughter company in which the main engineer was corrupted and thrown into a biomass boiler what was really no biomass. There were the best-earned watchmen at the gate and the whole range of other people. Dozens of people were arrested for corruption. This also shows that there's detection, there's prevention, but there's no way to avoid certain behaviors that ultimately require a criminal response. As for the coincidence that Marshal Borusewicz asked about the CBA shares, the media and the handover... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it looks like we are carrying out this information function, and in agreement with the prosecution, we inform you about the actions that go into the in-rem phase. And there's a need for the public to get that information. But also to be clear, it's not like we're just giving news to our own. Because it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that not everyone, not all the media are interested, in short, in the information that the CBA provides. It's not like we don't really inform. Rather, we try to ensure that the information agreed in the message and in the message is made available to all, and is not news for one group. I mean, even when it comes to... I don't know a case where there'd be public television cameras now, and we'd be walking somebody in chains. These are things from the past. I don't think I'm particularly aware of that at the moment. I can be wrong, of course, right? [[Voice from the hall: And Gawłowski?]] [[What about Gawłowski? A search?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, now, just a moment... As far as Mr. Gawłowski is concerned, you must remember that from the moment he was arrested until he was searched... at home. I'm sorry, because there were a few places there, among others. It's been hours in Koszalin. Everyone knew that already. So there's nothing amazing about the media being interested in this case. Well, he's a public figure. It's not like the CBA did. Sorry about the colloquialism. The subject of television. Before the search started at the house in Koszalin, it was... I don't know how long, but at least a few hours, a dozen maybe. Right? [[Then you should've prepared yourself.]] For our part, we were prepared for action. And I think we did it legally. The best evidence that we've done this legally is that we're not complaining about the very fact of stopping... [[But TV...]] [[Calm down, please. Allow the Minister to answer questions.]] All I'm gonna say is there wasn't one station on the scene. That's all I can say. And it wasn't really that when Mr. Gawłowski was stopped this morning, there was media outside Mr. Gawłowski's door. It was much later. That's how I remember it. As for the search in Koszalin, it seems that it was the next day at all. There's no setup with the media, I'm just saying it. But there's information to the public. And that's what happens when you agree with the D.A.'s office. We have cases in which there is information that the public should know to the extent that it can be communicated. I think in the transition from the in-rem phase to the in personam phase... It's a big deal to charge someone. Of course we respect and understand the presumption of innocence, but, ladies and gentlemen, you can be formally innocent, but for example. Disciplined from work. I would like to mention here the case of Mariusz Kaminski. He was innocent, too, wasn't he? And he was disciplined from the Central Anti-corruption Office by the next chief. It's just about using the quality of the presumption of innocence. These are some reactions to events which, I think, the public should know, and that is why this information is being transmitted. It's hard for me to comment... Of course, we can agree on that or not. I'm talking about... Somehow it's made available. All I'd like to say is that we don't prefer any psychic, only information is made available to everyone. Isn't that too much publicity? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is information, not advertising. This is information about what was done, how it was done. He's not here either. Well, let's see. It's a spectacular picture. I'll remind you that from the police's actions, too... The police are also reporting their actions here. We have a lot of pictures. I didn't see CBA photos where someone would be half-naked, handcuffed in the back. I don't think public opinion is outraged by this when you eliminate organized crime groups. I don't think it's outrageous, either, when the Central Anti-corruption Office informs about an organised criminal group operating in the financial, corrupt area, these are people performing important functions. Because this shows the effectiveness and real action of the state. It seems to me that it has a general advantage, which is invaluable in this regard. And this isn't about advertising, it's about information. 'Cause I'm not standing here, and I'm not coming to the media, either, and I'm not... We try to present it as a result of work. I don't give interviews every day, you don't see me in the media. I'd rather it be just information about the office's work. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you another question?]] Just a minute, I'm sorry, because here... [[Yes.]] Capital to other countries. Is there a race for the perpetrators, or is Poland the only one being plundered? Well, capital flows to other countries. I was the only one who said, Ladies and gentlemen, that capital flows into offshore zones, i.e. so-called tax havens zones. These are not simple matters, because these offshore zones are sometimes created within the jurisdiction of highly developed countries. I do not want to point out specific countries here, but this is a system to which the European Union should also respond. It is not only the European Union, but also world organisations, which are those countries that are in the G20. Because it is a problem not only affecting Poland, absolutely. Transfer of money and transfer of capital... Of course, you have to match that with the so-called privilege... Actually, it is not a privilege, but one of the fundamental rights of the EU, the freedom of movement of capital. We just have to distinguish between the free movement of capital and the so-called free movement of capital. procedures for money laundering, fraud, transfer of this capital without investment, etc. Well, who actually pays taxes in Poland? Well, if we want you to function smoothly, then we all need to... And here's the cliché and the communal. But if we look, even today, at the publication probably in the journal... in one of the financial newspapers concerning the real taxation of companies, for example from the IT industry, then we see that with income reaching, let's say, hundreds of millions of zlotys is zero tax. I don't want to put anybody in here under the hierarchy. It just seems worth considering these optimizations, transfer prices, etc. You're right, aren't you? And that is not the main problem, ladies and gentlemen, in general the lack of payment of CIT. Well, why aren't they paying, I was trying to say, 'cause there are instruments. What the State itself has created In the form of, for example, investment funds closed, etc. There are also organized groups that, as I say, illegally rotate fuel, etc. Here we have a whole huge sphere, not even gray, but black, which is then transferred by various methods of creating certain organized structures into safe places. And safe places are not Poland, they are not the United States, where there are developed supervisions, etc., but these are the so-called ones. tax havens. There are also countries that have significantly reduced supervision of banking systems. I'm not talking about Switzerland anymore, which has been such an example for years. But there are other countries, such as Luxembourg, which runs politics, let's call it... On the one hand, there is a CIT tax and on the other hand there are exemptions from this tax for certain companies and entities. So here we could multiply these examples. But, I think, it is very important not even to optimize and move capital within the legal framework, but to commit aggressive fraud and simply place dirty money in safe places, so that it can be used, and not for the benefit of the country where the money is generated or made. We need a very effective detection system here. In fact, the penalty then is that these measures should be secured in a real way, for the benefit of the State. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the anti-corruption shield, which is the case... [[He's warning us.]] ...a warning about phenomena that... Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that the issue of an anti-corruption shield is something that is being implemented at this moment still on the basis of a resolution of the previous government. This is a set, a system of actions that aims to protect and warn against phenomena. Only the principle is this, Ladies and gentlemen: in order this to work really, it must be provided with real information in advance. Do you understand? If someone has already made certain regulations, concluded contracts, etc., and now he informs and wants to be covered by an anti-corruption shield, this is the situation you understand. Anything late. Then we can react through controls, operational activities, investigative activities, etc., but not with this shield. The shield makes sense when, for example, it makes sense. We are planning a very large investment, say, the Central Communication Port, we are informing about this investment and we are taking a lot of action in the form of informing you that such action will be taken. And then we use our methods, forms, sources, etc., etc., we see where these threats are, and we can act in a real way as an anti-corruption shield. So this system works, however, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can also... There's a lot of activity, but the office has limited resources. I remind you that we have less than a thousand people, i.e. This number is now reaching a thousand. Therefore, we are certainly not able to cover all economic processes with an anti-corruption shield. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u246	Another round of questions. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u247	I don't see it because I didn't get the information on time... [[Turn on the mike.]] You didn't understand our information or my information... When we were asking about these media preparations, we weren't talking about the fact that the CBA was supposed to get ready for action earlier, but that the medium, in order to give some information, had to find out a few hours earlier, he had to prepare himself. So he needs to get information from CBA, e.g. We're going to search Rulewski's apartment. And here's the question: how do you communicate then? Now for the second question... I don't think you understand. I am not concerned with tax havens and your doubts, unexpected doubts that any information companies or any other companies would not pay tax. To be honest, they have a right not to pay. Fiat probably does not pay taxes until today because that was the agreement; Prime Minister Morawiecki gave Mercedes about PLN 120 million to invest in Poland, in a zone where he will not pay many taxes, will not pay as many taxes there. And he's not gonna pay in the future because he's gonna invest. I see you're having second thoughts about why Mercedes or some other company doesn't pay taxes. That's the law. There is an advantage here for Poland, because the point is to attract investors. So it's more of an economic policy than a crime. I'm warning you against that. So please tell me clearly and answer the question. I'm skipping out on what, the investment zones, but are we going to the countries with which we have economic relations... You've investigated a lot of crimes. Do such crimes happen where accounting and other records are falsified and dividends, money are exported? If so, do we also... Why aren't we stealing... In subtext, I don't urge you to steal. Can we steal from those companies too? [[No, because it's a sin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u248	Senator Rybicki. [[Voice from the room: He already wants to steal.]] [[Voice from the room: Stealing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u249	Thank you. Minister, you didn't answer the question I asked in the first round about your deputy's idea. It was about introducing an integrity test in Poland, i.e. one, so I would say, provocation against officials. There's a request for an answer. By the way, I will also ask about the results of the checks that were initiated in all marshal offices. You told the minister that the CBA team was about a thousand people, plus a minus, but it was a giant action that had to... [[It was two years ago.]] Yeah, but it's probably not until last year... [[Zero.]] ...have been evaluated. I would like to ask you about the effects that this huge action has brought to all marshal offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm particularly impressed... I'm very impressed with your financial analyst team, because in the thicket of huge numbers to detect scandals, having a lot to say here, a rather thin team, it's hard. I mean, I'm totally serious: I'm admired. But I'd like to ask you two things. One of the senators has been charged. One of them is related to irregularities in the property statement, because somewhere in the house he had about 12 or 15 thousand, which he did not show. And I looked through my curiosity at your boss's statement of property, the coordinator, Mr. Mariusz Kaminski. And he writes in his statement for 2016 as regards cash: not applicable. There are none: no foreign currency, no gold. And he says he made over 200,000 zlotys. Are these kinds of cases... Well, I know it would be awkward for you to examine your boss's statement, but I think that should be explained. The second question concerns the transfer of PLN 25 million from the Ministry of Justice to the CBA, the transfer of them from the Justice Fund, which I will remind you earlier, was called the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance and which was powered by references to convicted offenders. This was intended to serve post-penitentiary aid and was transferred to your institution, to the institution of the Minister. [[Voice from the room: Maybe they need this help?]] And as we read in the report, there is one item in your budget that says that 79 million zlotys were additionally received from the special-purpose reserve for the purchase of real estate for the CBA, but that 25 million are not there. Maybe I don't see it in this brief report, but I would ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Me in the next round. Please delete me.]] [[Head of Ernest Beida Central Corruption Bureau: May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Speaking of taxes, payments, benefits and certain exemptions... It is obvious that there are certain exemptions, only one can ask a general question: then who pays taxes in Poland and what are the benefits of not paying that investment? Well, you could say they're obvious because he invested. I am the only one who reminds you of one more fact: that investing large companies is not always exempt from tax. So it's not always that to attract capital, we give privileges in the form of the possibility of not paying taxes. I'm thinking of companies that normally operate here and should pay taxes. I mean, different: it looks like if, for example. generated revenue of PLN 60 billion per year I'm thinking about one of the big trading companies here. It's the cost of revenue that shouldn't be paid for that zero tax, right? And here's the other thing. About Fiat... These are, of course, things from the past. I can say that I have a critical attitude towards such agreements, because we are no longer a country for achievements. We have our potential and this market is attractive. And that's kind of one thing. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Let me draw your attention to one more element à about this payment or nonpayment. Because IBM in Poland paid zero taxes and in the USA paid several billion. And this is an example of how and where these taxes are paid. So, do we really want to have a state of affairs that these big companies that we're talking about investing in, actually generating huge revenues, hundreds of millions, billions of zlotys, don't pay taxes at all? Well, this is, in my opinion, a systemic problem and the state should pay attention to it, because we are not, I repeat, a country where the post-colonial method can be used: we invest and be glad that we have invested. That is not the case. 'Cause if you're generating huge revenue, which means you're making money. I repeat: you earn huge money, you should pay taxes here. That's all. Because other people pay these taxes here, and this country, to grow, needs money from public danin... [[But, Minister, I understand that you're not a finance minister or a politician, you're chasing criminals.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] And now I'm gonna cut to the chase, so to speak, committing crimes. Yes? Because in order not to pay these taxes, there are fraudulent practices. That's what I'm talking about. I am already moving on to this element that very often no real commitments are made, i.e. no contracts are concluded, only fictitious contracts are concluded that do not generate any real benefits. The only reason for such an agreement is the transfer of funds and the reduction of the tax base. And it's a fraud, it's not an optimization. [[Yeah, that's cheating.]] And this is the jurisdiction of the Central Bureau of Corruption, which is to combat crimes that undermine the economic interests of the state. It's clear. [[And that's the deal you find?]] Of course I do, of course I do. We found it, we found it, and we're gonna find it. Not much, I think we're the most effective at this. And that's because we can use effective operating methods that others don't use. I hope this is where I have a comprehensive answer. About the integrity test... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of some intelligence, of a doctrinal nature. Yes? It's not like we're gonna end some myths here, either. Because an integrity test is a valid law in many countries. The integrity test is that if someone comes to serve as a public office, they agree that they can be tested. Only now, ladies and gentlemen, there is no test of the integrity of criminal liability, possibly there is only liability in the form of a loss of office. And in different countries of the world, such integrity tests work. And it's not like it's provoking or anything. Yes? This is a certain obligation of a public servant. My deputy just wrote an article about how there's something like an integrity test, and he was brutally attacked, and he wanted to introduce something. This is a sure, let's call it an academic statement that shows on a comparative basis the functioning of institutions in other systems and shows that there is such a solution. And one might wonder whether it could be accepted in Poland. It's not his overwhelming desire, let's call it provoking others, because it's just not true. Yes? The experience of other countries shows Because we meet specialists from other countries, including those who carry out such tests. This leads to really very good results. I stress: it's not a matter of criminal responsibility, it's a matter of responsibility, let's call it political, disciplinary, right? In fact, the point is that he will appeal to such a person from his position. This is an integrity test. When it comes to the control coordinated by the marshals' offices, by the way, because I no longer reach... Ladies and gentlemen, it was the control coordinated. It concerned a very important area, namely the acquisition of EU funds. Let me just remind you that by the marshal's offices in the perspective of 4 years, I may be wrong in 2010 and 2014 but I do not think that More than PLN 100 billion. And that's the first thing. Yes? They were the managing bodies of that amount, they had the money and they spent it, and then they looked after the evaluation of these funds, etc., etc. So I'm thinking... Moreover, in my opinion, the control by intermediary institutions was quite dimpled, and in the opinion of CBA specialists. Yes? So that's what the check was for. She was also only to a certain extent, because we controlled activity probably at PLN 4.7 billion. About the results... It's not like there were none, because in the first few months, we've already filed three reports of a crime, and there's been an investigation. [[What's the value?]] In general We've put together... I think a dozen investigations have been initiated. And now, the ones that we've embraced the largest range... That's the case. building eHealth systems in various hospitals that did not work at all and spent tens of millions of zlotys. Right? And this is one of the spheres. Two: the establishment of producer groups. So me, my brother-in-law and my wife, when a group... the idea of a producer group is that it's made up of farmers, for example. be able to compete with large wholesalers, deliver to high-surface shops, etc. In the meantime, this is not the idea of setting up a production group, as you can imagine. It was the subject of an activity, in this area some investigations were carried out, some cases were prosecuted, people were arrested, and this is not the end. Right? I am also thinking about building information systems from regional operational programmes. Hundreds of millions of zlotys were spent, and in many places these IT systems do not work at all. It's like, in short, I'm not getting into the details. I can make it up in writing, if you'd like. [[I would ask, Mrs. Marshal, for detailed information...]] [[In writing. Good.]] Good. About the $25 million case from the Justice Fund... [[I'd like to join you in writing, too.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the law has been amended in terms of the use of resources from the Justice Fund. Namely, the possibility of using these measures has been extended and state protection authorities have been included, among other things, in this area. recognition and prevention of crime. Therefore, after the change of law as one of such bodies, we made an appropriate request to the Ministry of Justice, obtained a positive decision and received funds of PLN 25 million. Only that these funds are not included here, they were kind of from a separate pot, because this isn't a pot, let's call it straight from the budget, this is just a pool of around-the-budget funds. And I would like to make it clear that these are not just funds intended for crime victims, just like before. The catalogue of possible use of these measures was extended as it was considered that they had previously been used in a less efficient manner. These measures have been fully committed to the public, I can say so much. For the purchase of equipment for operating techniques. There's so much to be said. They were certainly not wasted, they were used very effectively. As far as the statements are concerned, there are different reasons. I think that here... there are irregularities in statements, but only those are subject to allegations that are in the office's opinion made consciously. It is, of course, that we believe that there are grounds for such claims, and we make a report of suspicion of a crime. He's gonna settle a prosecutor, then maybe a court. Right? In case of unconscious errors we do not generate, we do not duplicate the preliminary proceedings, we do not conduct preliminary proceedings with the prosecution... [[Yeah, but the instruction...]] ...and we don't charge. It's not a thing... As I said, there are some ambiguities, but it seems to me that only on obvious matters, when it comes to parliamentarians, are such conclusions formulated. I think Mariusz Kaminski is an honest person, and I talked to him about it too, about good honesty, and as he said he was gone, he probably didn't have the resources. [[He didn't write about it.]] We don't have to play with words. Right? It is obvious that the case is, I think, a matter of unworthy speaking, given also the person of the minister of the coordinator. Are these all cases? I think so. Unless something...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u254	I understand you want to ask, Senator. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah, but I'm waiting my turn...]] [[Your marshal, apparently...]] But I understand... [[I resigned and said that in the next series. If...]] Mr. Marshal, you will be opening this next series. And I realized that the senator wanted to ask the question that had been raised before. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Otherwise, I'd give up on the marshal.]] Mr. Marshal, wait a minute. [[I'd give up my colleague and marshal.]] Mr. Senator, just for a very short time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u255	I continue with the topic of advertising and now I resort to two examples. Namely, information was given that the CBA was investigating the case of a Minister K. and it indicated that he had received a personal advantage of PLN 21 billion. Maybe that's what happened. I would like to ask if the funds derived from this abuse were secured and where they are, in the court, in the prosecution's office, at the CBA. Or maybe you've already failed to catch the 21 billion zlotys? The second example of advertising is Inowroclaw, my constituency, where the president of the city reported abuse of some 120 thousand. Well, CBA called, and CBA thought it was the crime that discovered it. . notabene carried out by the members of the PiS; I do not know, maybe that's why And it started with the so-called. The lans that here has discovered a big deal and the case is developmental. Isn't that abuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u256	Thank you. Minister, please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, there are two politicians: Mr Brejza and his father. Thank you.]] [[But it's not from the PiS.]] Mr. Senator... Good. Now I'm asking the Minister for a brief answer. And we'll give you the floor to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! About the 21st... I don't know which minister it is. If anything, it's not personal, it's property. But I can check... [[Deputy Minister, he was in charge of excise duty.]] [[Kapica.]] Ah... Well, it's not a matter of benefit... [[That's what it says.]] Oh, no. No, it didn't say that. I think this is a matter of possible losses related to certain actions and omissions, not an advantage. That's the thing that's under investigation. I'm sure there was no mention of benefits... Mr. Senator, I don't want to do this right now. I assume you have a good memory of appealing... Well, if there was an announcement like that, he was imprecise, let's call it, or he was missing the truth. I don't know what he was like... Certainly not in the CBA, certainly there was no such announcement in the CBA that Minister Kapica received a personal benefit of PLN 21 billion. The case is pending. It is difficult to say more about this matter at the moment. [[There was a personal benefit.]] Well, we'll stay... We're probably gonna have different positions. As far as Inowroclaw is concerned, I think the facts looked a little different. President Inowroclaw, using the so-called method. Forward escape When there was knowledge, Mr. Senator, on the CBA's side, what are the irregularities? It used a known runway in the form of a notification, saying it was him who reported it. That's the truth, unfortunately. Well, that's all I have to say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u259	Minister, I have two questions. One more weight, one less weight. You write in your report that VAT fraud in Poland, the Czech Republic and Germany... that the state budget due to VAT fraud last year lost PLN 187.3 million. Well, let's say, so rounded, that about 200 million zlotys. When setting up the VAT extortion committee in the Sejm, it was reported that the state budget in the last 10 years had suffered a loss of PLN 200 billion. If we multiply by 10 of these 200 million, it's going to be 2 billion. That would mean that these 200 billion losses would accumulate over 100 years. Tell me how much you estimate budget losses. I made the bill quite simple and quite primitive... It's a question of greater importance. The second question concerns Lotus. A member of the board or vice president who was appointed two years ago was arrested. Is this a developmental matter or not? How's it look? I don't want to know the details, but... it seems to be about fuel trading. Was it extortion or corruption? That's the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u260	Thank you. Senator Radziwill, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u261	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I am astonished to hear these questions about the various sensational threads of your work, and I think it is not about those who are of interest to you that we should be talking about. We listen to information about the operation of the office in 2017. Of course these elements, let's call it, film-sensational are important too. It's probably the everyday life of your work. But I would like to draw attention to another thing that I have a little missed in your report, including the written one. It's about prevention. Truism is that it is better to prevent than intervene. I would like to say here, by the way, that my experience, especially as Minister of Health, from working with you is very good. And I would also like to thank you for this aspect of prevention. I'd like to ask you to say a few words about this, because I suppose you've had similar meetings or held not only with the Minister of Health, but also with representatives of other resorts or offices. I'm talking about different kinds of consultations, right at the decision-making stage. It's not even an anti-corruption shield. Of course, she is present at the Ministry of Health, there is no doubt about it, but consultation on matters concerning large purchases, above all decisions on drug policy, as well as I'm not gonna tell a secret here. . Consultations on the future of plasma fractionation in Poland... And these are my experiences. I would like to thank you very much for the surprisingly high competences of the CBA people I have been seeing, and I have also met with you personally, and I would like to ask you for a few words on this subject. I think that the House should hear at least a few words about what you are doing so that there are no criminal offences to eliminate possible conflicts of interest and, even before that, give advice on how to act. It was a very important experience for me. Once again, thank you very much and I would like to ask for a few of these aggregate words to complement this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u262	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski is still on the list for the question. Is that up to date?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u263	I'm actually interested in... Well, your appeal will be made. I mean this anti-corruption shield, which was about to replace such scattered and laborious efforts by the CBA in the fight against crime. Minister, I thank you for your honesty and surprise you, saying that you are not able to build such a shield, to make a record of all these multi-billion-dollar actions in which corruption is potentially possible. And here's the question: are you asking for additional resources? Because it's justified. Poland is a developing country, developing investment, huge capital flows. So you need the help you need... We can help you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u264	Good. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u265	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, let's start with the case... As for Lotus, the vice-president of the board, yes, it is true, this case has been carried out and charges have been made, and what I can say about it has been reported in the communication. The issue concerns earlier activity, among others. the person in the criminal group who was intended to lead by means of the so-called. carousel crimes to extort VAT. This took place in a slightly earlier period, before this person took part in the company, in Lotus. And then there was the question of loss, the first question before Lotus, the question of 200 million... [[Okay, I'll do it again. You're saying in your report that the loss of...]] Oh, I know. Excuse me, I'll tell you. [[...Volume-Volume...]] Yeah, 200 billion... [[From 200 million to 200 billion.]] Mr. Senator, I understand that this can be done, but it's simplified, because it's one thing. She's a big deal, but she only applies to one group... [[That's why I'm asking you how you estimate these annual losses from last year.]] I'll tell you what. ...not the biggest. I wanted to show in the report how much damage one thing generates. And there aren't dozens of cases like that. I think we should count on hundreds and thousands rather than tens. And I'm thinking one more thing. I showed another case, another example, 100 million VAT with 3 invoices issued for the marketing of non-existent mobile phones. So that you understand how much tax losses can be caused in one case, not the thickest one at all. I think it is important to pay particular attention to the marketing of fuels. Well, at a time when Law and Justice introduced regulations that tightened up the surveillance of fuel trading, we had, and so far we're dealing with the situation that both refineries... Their turnover has increased significantly. What does that mean? This means that it has been eliminated through the supervision of transports and the reversal of VAT on these fuels, but not only, mainly through control, investigative and operational activities, a very serious sphere of criminal activity which generated huge profits. I think these profits are billions. And I'm not gonna make a mistake here. These are hundreds of millions of zlotys. Organized groups that traded fuel... Please note that the demand for fuel is such that the refineries are currently not able to produce such processing that this demand is 100% It'll satisfy you. And why did the refineries not work full-time before? That's a rhetorical question. Well, because there were organized criminal groups that brought in fuel and didn't pay taxes for it, in short. Neither the VAT nor the excise duty nor the fuel charge paid anything. The profits were taking care of themselves. Enough of that, these groups. And I must say this very strongly, they had, so to speak, a covering and an umbrella in people who perform public functions, also in special services and very high in the police. That's why they were so effective. And we are also talking about people connected with the whole sphere, so to speak, tax authorities, which should oversee and eliminate this kind of phenomenon. That wasn't at all. I'm not tempted to say how much, what is... These are some estimates from the Ministry of Finance. But the facts are And I see it on the basis of our findings, information, commitment, investigations, operational activities. That there was a complete lack of any supervision over the entire vast sphere. Fewly, legislation was introduced that made it even easier to construct and operate such groups. This is an absolutely amazing sphere. And I think I'm not tempted by numbers here. It was also seen in the revenue of the state budget. VAT has been increased and revenue has decreased. So, as I said, I am not tempted here for statistical data, I think that the finance department has made these estimates fairly, and they do not have to deviate from reality at all. I just see in my activities how this sphere, this issue was completely abandoned and how huge fortunes were created at that time. Fortune illegal, let's face it. And here's the question: who profited from this kind of money? Who allowed these groups to grow and bloom? Because that's, you could say, a kazus like organized crime groups in the '90s, who did robberies, extortion, drug trafficking, etc. This is another type of criminal activity, also very dangerous, very difficult to identify, but not impossible to identify. It took action. And I speak here from this place with all responsibility: in previous years, this kind of action has been completely abandoned. And it all led to such a state that the groups mentioned, in colloquially speaking, scooters as they wanted. And this is not the end, because our answer, the answer of the state is now and it will be I think it's gonna be a while. Very concrete and realistic as regards the beneficiaries of these groups.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u266	Minister, but for this report... Well, I'd like to ask you a question. How many... You say I'm the one who brought up one case you brought up. How many VAT frauds have you detected? and for what amount In 2017?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u267	I said damage of PLN 1 billion 705 million. These are VAT fraud. Different, let's say, damage. [[Last year?]] Yes. This is, as I say, just a field of activity of the Central Bureau of Corruption. Other statistics can be presented by KAS, etc. It's like the answer to your question. As far as anti-corruption prevention is concerned, this is a very important issue that the senator has said, and thank you very much for those words. Of course... [[So it wasn't a runaway?]] ...we're involved in these trials. They have not even a formal form of an anti-corruption shield but a real form. So to put it simply, there's a lot of activity in the Central Anti-corruption Office, especially the specialists. We have specialists in various fields, including. professionals in the field of broadly understood health care. We have supported the Ministry of Health in a number of areas: in the regulation on the quality of medical devices, in the legislative processes concerning the amendment of the Refund Act introducing solutions for the assessment of the quality of medical devices, as a result of these actions, a definition of the quality of medical devices for vaccines was introduced on the refund of medicines. I think that part of the merit of the Central Bureau of Corruption, which is due to its previous activity, is to introduce the entire refund system, to build certain fuses in this system. All the time, I can say, we work with the Ministry of Health in a real, active and daily way in this area. This is finally a case of reverse drug supply chains. It is also a matter of placing medical devices and biocidal products on the market, which is the whole area. At all times, there is our cooperation in this area to prevent. I'm just marking it... I was talking about it, and I was pointing out that this is the whole area of anti-tax crime. I was talking about this, the legal work, the engagement of the office. It is also a matter of the Office's activity in numerous projects concerning the activities of ministries, the Minister of Digitization, the Minister of Health, as well as in IT systems which are intended to bind and organise the system. Because we don't really know where the holes are. If we have a good central IT system, a lot of things will be explained and it will save money in the system. We're involved in this case, too. We are even involved in such cases as taking control of the toll collection system, which generates PLN 5 million a day. We have a problem with the company that built this system, with the whole system, its functioning. That's another activity of ours. It's supposed to be taken over right now, changed the law, etc. Without going into detail, I'm going to say we're very close. This is, ladies and gentlemen, in the same system, as I say, 5 million zlotys a day of income. So there are many such areas where specialists and analysts from the Central Anti-corruption Office are close and act quietly, you can say, and very well. It's not just that, it's just part of the activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u268	Thank you very much. [[The voice from the hall, Jackie, still?]] You wanna ask me a question or a new question? [[New.]] New? Wait a minute. Now Mr. Andrzej Spider, then Mr. Grzegorz Pekkis, and then Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Thank you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Well, there are many of these successes shown here and for this great respect and thanks. But I'm interested in that question. CBA captured e.g. The ring, there are, let's say, 10 and their activities caused losses, say, in the order of up to 800 million. And then what? 'Cause then I can't hear you. Something about the fact that these 10 people are being charged by the D.A.'s attorney, it goes to the stand, is proposed to them after 15, 20 years in prison, for this, for this, for this, for this, and for example. the return of the estate or the return of the stolen money. That's what's missing. Well, these successes are, they're shown on TV, that it's, it's grabbed. But what about those who are so caught up and who have been proven by the CBA? That's what I'm missing, because that information isn't on the national scale.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u270	Thank you. Mr. Senator Pekkis. Please. [[I'm from a province that's pretty distant, I mean. From Opole...]] Louder, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u271	I'm from the province of Opole. With us, the law... [[Do you have a microphone on?]] Yes, sir. My mic's on. I'm saying I'm from the province. With us, the law is very contractual, and law enforcement agencies sometimes act in an unnoticeable way. And therefore, I am a fan of your formation, because it is the only formation that takes up difficult subjects at all, i.e. It's not that kind of thing when a crime is direct, which means someone ran over a red light, but it's the kind of thing that needs thinking. My problem, however, is that in the case of a lot of reported crimes, there is too much money for the police, which is a few million and too low for other services. This is particularly true of crime. Scams, semi-scams about local governments, local government companies. The state, to tell you the truth, doesn't realize... I mean, I know it's too small that it's too small a scale and that it's not enough of you, but in a provincial town somewhere on the edge of the Republic of Poland there's a feeling that there's no justice and that bandits have what they want. What is the chance of opening a delegation in Opole, where the ABW delegation was recently abolished? We have a small C.B.P. squad, and we don't have you at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u272	Thank you. Senator Rulewski, and I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, in my deliberations, extended, I see, even about fiscal policy... I have a question as to whether you are aware that your actions, your actions and not only those that I support, are at the same time part of the taxation of certain activities of recipients, especially them, but not only, and increase costs. As you know, the largest gray area, VAT-owska and not only VAT-owska, employee, is in construction, where there are generally no large number of invoices, even for materials. And what caused that? No doubt that noose you're clamping. It is right, in my opinion, that the prices of construction services have increased so much that the recipients who used to pay... Even those who receive 500+ today have to pay more for construction services. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u274	Okay, thank you very much. Minister? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, when it comes to the matter of effectiveness and conviction, of course, as a result of the detention of the people we charge here... It's got its own order. Unfortunately, the mills of justice grind slowly. I am particularly thinking about the jurisdictional dimension here, the strict jurisdictional part, which is when the case goes to court. But when it comes to our activity and the prosecution's office, I think there have been legislative solutions here that increase the possibilities of effective compensation and compensation for property damage, such as extended confiscation, the issue of building and improving the functioning of an integrated property recovery system... I think it's working all over Europe, and I want to say it's working well; the lead authority is the police here. ♪ We're trying our best ♪ And these are usually cases in which we are dealing with property damage to assets, assets, property, and not only real property, because I am talking about money, real estate, movable property, but also financial instruments, shares. So all these things are happening, and I think there's a lot of progress here. But I think there's still a lot to do. The CBA will try harder to integrate into the European property recovery system so that it can determine more quickly certain assets that are... criminals operate across borders. Right? They locate their assets abroad, rewritten to other people, but the law already allows us to reach out effectively, so I think there will be progress in this area. Investigation is also carried out faster than it was conducted. Well, of course, there's a court case, because then the case goes to court. It's different here. Of course, in cases where there are temporary arrests, etc., courts rule more quickly. Yeah, but there's kind of a process of change in courts, structural changes, organizational changes, etc., etc. It's all happening, too. So I think that this reaction... the criminal response is not limited only to the deprivation of liberty, but only it will be effective when there is also a financial penalty, a real and ailing financial sanction, which states that the crime does not pay. In general, I believe that in order to talk about the real answer to the most serious crimes, this response, which is a component that leads to the reduction of criminal activity, must have two variables. The first is inevitability and speed, but the second is rawness. Just like the area of the rectangle, if one side is... then the result is also similar... So you can't treat these two things separately, it has to be strict, not just inevitability. And this severity must also be understood as a severe financial sanction. As for the reported crimes, as the senator said, there are these things... We see it, and we see shortcomings, as far as we're concerned, let's call it... We really want to be more involved in the local government, because we see a lot of local clicks, deals, corruption... It's done. Perhaps... I am also from the province, and I often go to my hometown, and I hear exactly the same remarks that the senator is directing at my address now that... the CBA is going to develop in person. And we also want to keep an eye on local things, because this is a measure of a just state. That is, the lack of consent to violations of law, corruption, abuse of law by local, local governments. Surely this attention will not be lacking, and there will certainly be courage and determination in this regard. I think you'll also be able to hear about these things soon. Do you still have a senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u276	Do you want to ask the senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u277	Minister, I'm still on this case I've been asking about. Sometimes it's hard for me to understand that there's hard evidence because, let's say, there's a loss of 200, 250 million... How long must there be a trial, let's say, from this arrest, from the fact that you've captured it and you know that so many millions have been stolen... And there's no indictment. Because it went to the air that those ten, with such hard evidence... What's taking so long? So that at least the indictment would be... Well, the D.A.'s office made a statement that those and those who were arrested by the Central Anti-corruption Bureau three months ago received an indictment, and he's already in court... It's a matter of, let's say the courts work, how they work, well, we can say that they grind slowly, but why can't you see it so...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u278	Okay, Mr. Senator... Is there anything else the Minister would like to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u279	All I can say is that the indictments are directed. This is the task of the D.A.'s office, not the service, but, of course, in cooperation with us... I can say that for my part, I see a need, too. And the public sees it that way. A quicker way to end cases. I think that there is progress in this area, of course not enough, but I believe that there has been significant progress in this area, particularly in recent years, because the prosecution is now indeed steering. It is a hierarchically subordinate institution, we are not dealing with a situation of giving principals, in which each one has a starch patella, and the attorney general is not even able to give orders to his subordinate. Indeed, now the situation is that this institution, the prosecution, is acting in a coordinated, hierarchical manner... This is the essence of such an institution, as is the central investigative office. There must be a hierarchy of subjection here, otherwise there will be no effectiveness. This isn't a court that's an arbiter. This is a matter of gathering evidence, effective response, rapid... these elements constitute a proper response and make this criminal repression appropriate, fair, etc., etc. Distributed, such that everyone will be an independent electron, an entity, is completely inconvenient to reality. So I think that progress is progressing in this area, but time will show... It's about the changes in court, the ones that will cause, so to speak, a faster sentence, of course, without violating the rules of the criminal process.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u280	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask... Senator Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u281	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you have raised the issue of coordination. Well, we've got a few servants, I get the feeling that sometimes this coordination is a little off. But since we're listening to your report today, I have a question. Indeed, national forces seem modest. Neither is the budget any, speaking the youth language, overwhelming, and each of us could point out a lot of casuistic things for which, it seems, the CBA should show some activity. I no longer want to mention an example of a picture of a lady with a weasel. I have a question. Because Parliament is building budgets for the years to come... Would you like to dream and tell us what membership or budget would be satisfactory for the company so that it can perform its tasks more effectively?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u282	Are there any more questions for the Minister? If there isn't, we'll close this part of the session. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, I would very much like the office to increase its competence by recruiting professionals, specialists. There's a plus here. The second thing is the matter of technology, equipment that is expensive. There is a third element: it would be best for us to create certain IT systems that help in analytical work, with our own IT facilities and programmers. What I'm trying to say is that we've accepted people like this. Turns out you can get people like that for duty. We would have guaranteed control of the program that we would have written ourselves. Right? Buying a ready program... We talked about this today. There are certain areas of security. When we deal with certain things, when we want to limit the circle of people who know about our interests, it's best to have a program. That's once. Two: Buying is very expensive. Of course, we eat outside shopping, but we want to create our own program. It's also cheaper, as it turns out. The admission of specialists does not mean that we will have to pay much more. Keeping them from the point of view of a company like CBA is even desirable. We're getting there. I think about the budget... This year, I guess, it's been announced that it's gonna be okay. 200 million. I think we're gonna want to take in extra people next year. If it were 250 million, it would be an excellent case. That would be my dream.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u284	Thank you. There are no more questions. Minister, thank you very much for your extensive presentation of the information, as well as for the answers given to the senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I inform you that the head of Ernest Beid's Central Anti-corruption Office has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I thank the head of the Central Corruption Bureau, Mr. Ernest, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the results of the operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2017. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the IWT Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 908, and the report of the committee In print No 908 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u285	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The committee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The Commission has dealt with the proposed law on amending the IWT Act quite briefly and in substance. The changes that are proposed aim, both according to the designers and according to the representatives of the office which prepared the opinion, to strengthen the IWT administration on the ground, with the strengthening of this will be... I'm looking for a word to describe it differently, but I think it's time to say That's right. It is the liquidation of 8 inland waterway transport offices, with headquarters in Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Giżycko, Kędzierzyn-Koźlu, Krakow, Szczecin, Warsaw and Wrocław, and their replacement by delegations. The current offices in Gdansk, Giżycko, Warsaw, Kędzierzyn-Koźlu and Kraków will be transformed into delegations of inland waterway transport offices and persons appointed as directors of inland waterway transport offices in these centres will become directors of delegations. This is to be accompanied by an increase of about 30 posts. At the committee's meeting, it was asked whether the proportion of the increase was already known, in other words, whether this increase would take place in individuals, let's call it central or in offices, or in those delegations that remain. That question was not answered unambiguously. The answer was that this division isn't there yet. This is how the administrative structure of inland navigation management will be changed. In fact, aside from the questions I asked, no other questions were asked. The Commission recommends that the House adopt a law. I have a request to enlist me for discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u286	Good. We're signing up Senator Pekkis for discussion. Now, the question... [[Voice from the room: It is already reported...]] Yeah, but I'll read the formula. Perhaps the other senators would like to speak. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rybicki and Mr. Senator Rulewski. First Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to ask the senator about the reasons for the decision to transfer the management of the inland waterway transport office from Gdansk to Bydgoszcz In Gdańsk there are 5 rivers, including Wisła Śmiała, Martwa Wisła, Motława, Radunia. These are all rivers where more or less shipping takes place. The Tri-City is probably the only place where inland navigation on such a scale... where rivers connect to the sea on such a scale. In the city itself there are water trams that serve residents. I think it's the only place like this. There's a tech lab and... [[Not the only one.]] Well, maybe, but it's nothing. It is the only place in Poland where there are several hundred kilometres of inland roads within the agglomeration, where there is staff, experience and corporate culture. It all consists of technical and cultural potential, but above all natural-geographical potential. Why is the management being transferred to Bydgoszcz? Bydgoszcz is a beautiful city and also lies by the river, and yet, speaking a little jokingly, I will say: know the proportions, the mosquito ladies. Please explain this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u288	Please, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u289	In order to celebrate this question, I will say that in Bydgoszcz already ships sail through the rivers into the sun, at least two at a time, on Brd and Vistula. My question is that kind of thing. Why did you make a mistake? I don't really know... Is there going to be this delegation in Bydgoszcz or not? [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]] [[It's gotta be.]] [[It's all in the plans...]] This is where the main waterway flows from Berlin to Kaliningrad, Kaunas, Russia. [[I said it was moving from Gdansk to Bydgoszcz.]] You've read it vaguely, Mr. Senator. Why don't you say it again?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u290	Okay, Mr. Senator. [[I'll read your opinion...]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. [[I'm sorry.]] Senator Alicia Hare will ask you a question and I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u291	Thank you very much. Do these changes have anything to do with the newly established branches of Polish Waters and the fact that the Ministry of Inland Waters was responsible for the Polish Waters?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u292	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u293	From the beginning. Mr. Senator, if you look at the list... I'm with Kędzierzyn-Koźl, and I have an opinion that I'm about to discuss. I am now the rapporteur, and I must tell you in truth that this was not the subject of the committee's work. That wasn't the question. Senator Jan Rulewski's question. Senator, if I haven't read it, I will read: the directors of inland waterway transport offices in Bydgoszcz and Wrocław will become competent in matters where the directors of the converted inland waterway transport offices were competent. I read it so that this delegation stays. [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Thank you.]] As far as the senator's question is concerned, Senator, I have been asking about possible conflicts that have grown because they were as I know they were; maybe I'm wrong... But I didn't get the answers to those questions. [[I'll redirect the question to the Minister.]] You'll be Minister... The Minister is here, she was also at the committee meeting. I think it might be possible to ask. The committee meeting was of a very technical nature and was well conducted. These meetings of ours are always very substantive. There wasn't a political discussion, except for some regrets from Pecky's article... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u294	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Anna Moscow with us, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes. You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u295	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! A short change, so a short comment on her. I would like to clarify and explain what this change is really about. Indeed, this is a consequence of water law, which partly imposes on inland waterway authorities competence in the design, supervision and implementation of investments. Currently, these investments are carried out by the Ministry and by the Regional Water Management Boards. However, such competences in water law are and are now taking place in such a preparatory phase for these offices. We analysed in detail the report by NIK, which indicated that the administration of inland waterway transport is one of the least co-financed and least equipped, in terms of this human dimension, among the administrations in Poland. It has important, important tasks, despite the insignificant importance of inland waterway transport in Poland. Our ongoing cooperation with inland waterway authorities has confirmed this. So far there have been 8 equivalent inland waterway authorities, small authorities. Just so we're aware... Of course, we would like to keep all these offices, to create large inland waterway offices, to equip the human, technical dimension, but it would nevertheless be an expensive reform and not suitable for this dimension of inland waterway transport, which we currently have in Poland. So we take this administration as a complementary administration for water management. We're not shutting down offices. We transform offices, but we make some shifts. To date, administrative, legal and personal data services and these basic administrative elements have been carried out for offices by our Ministry. We move these tasks to 3 central offices, to which delegations will be subordinate. We do not take away from these delegations tasks in the form of ship control, in the form of checks on exams, in the form of carrying out the current activities they have carried out so far. To these 3 offices we move our administrative tasks. And so Bydgoszcz will be subject to Gdansk, Giżycko, Warsaw; Wroclaw Kędzierzyn-Koźle, Kraków. The Inland Navigation Authority in Szczecin, because it is a central authority in terms of examination competence, but also supervises the implementation of the border water agreement, remains an office without delegations It has sufficient tasks of its own. The reform does not generate additional resources. We moved the funds that were at the disposal of the Ministry, moving these competences from the Ministry to the Offices. This small reform has been carried out, it is carried out in consultation with the authorities. This is 30 jobs, and this is mainly administrative jobs plus people who would be first, together with the RZGW, preparing and overseeing potential investments. Currently, due to the fact that the authorities do not invest, we do so in such a model that they are members of the investment teams at regional water management boards so that they can influence those water management projects that are, and respond to those situations that may concern navigability, even if these potentially navigability projects do not concern, and relate to the wider water management. Indeed, we have not yet divided these posts in detail. We have planned a series of meetings with offices and we want this to be a joint decision, a joint division, because we treat this administration as one, a shared one. The division into individual offices is indeed consistent with the water catchment division, which is at the regional water management boards, which is its natural consequence. Of course, I'm saying it again. We would like to have 15 people in each of these offices, a lot of expertise, equipment and opportunities, but we are taking this realisticly for the moment. As I said, we treat this administration comprehensively together with the water management administration, RZGW and Polish Waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u296	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? [[I'd like to...]] Senator Rotnicka and Mr Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, We talk about water law long, much, much change here and at the moment it is very difficult for most parliamentarians to know what really belongs to whom, what is in the competence of the Ministry of Inland waterway transport, and what is in the competence of the Ministry of Environment. I'd like to ask if you're thinking about it. And if you don't, you're gonna have to make a proposal like that. Finally, for the two ministries to reach an agreement and a diagram of the division of competences and responsibilities with the scope of these responsibilities is presented. This would make it much easier to work on water-related issues, because water is not only the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, but also, above all, a broadly understood natural environment, where this water is actually everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u298	Senator, the water law will be at the next point, but I understand... [[No, no, but there's a division of competence here too, so like...]] I understand, okay. The Minister will answer. Now Mr. Senator Rybicki, then Senator Rabbit and we'll give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat and even expand a bit the question that I asked the rapporteur, namely the question of right, about the substantive reasons why the office, the directorate of the office from Gdańsk, is being transferred to Bydgoszcz. Of course, consolidation resulting from the needs of water law... All this can be well justified, but in substance it does not defend itself at all, even because the PiS government is about to invest in the excavation of Vistula mine and in the next place not too far from Gdansk will be the connection of maritime shipping to inland, from the Baltic Sea through the Vistula River to the Elbląg River or near the Skarpava River, this is what shipping will look like. Well, I don't understand why you're moving the office's office away from where the interface between inland waterway and sea is obvious, visible. There is also the location of the maritime office, so it would probably be easier to address some issues of agreement or investment. What's the point? What's the reason for this change? I'm asking for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u300	Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u301	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, when the Committee on the Environment took the news, working on a budget on the work of this committee The committee meeting was held on Monday. On Friday we decided to move to the Ministry of IWT, we had some concerns, because we know these issues, we know the long-term activities of the RZGW in various regions of Poland and we knew that it would not be easy, but we did not think it would be that difficult. We're gonna join in on this subject maybe in the water law. [[That's in a minute.]] Now we're going to inland waterway. You have taken another subject to change, to some restructurings, but this is due to and justified by the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which believes that in this area there are simply too few people and all these projects that are to be implemented in inland navigation. However, I would like to talk more about such a matter which I observe either once a week, or once every 2 weeks, by plane from the south of Poland to Warsaw along the Vistula. How are you guys gonna... when there's gonna be some projects? Or the initial ideas of making our two main rivers, the Oder and the Vistula? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u302	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u303	Thank you very much. Of course, we will prepare, if necessary, a document which would indicate in a clear, simple way the division of competences between us and the Ministry of the Environment. In our opinion, there is no collision in our daily operation, on the contrary, very efficient cooperation. Minister Gajda personally gave me all the competences and tasks related to water management. If there is a need to indicate in a simple way... I'm sure the Ministry of Energy will be important here, too, because hydroenergy is involved... well, that's the kind of competence on the border. Absolutely, I've written that down. This summary information will be provided in an accessible graphic form. About Gdansk... Gdansk stays. Of course it's not... [[As a delegation.]] Yes. For today, because just so we know... We also took into account how many current tasks individual offices perform. Gdansk now has 3 people employed. For comparison: Bydgoszcz 7 people, Giżycko. 7, Kędzierzyn-Koźle This is the smallest office, so actually as a result of this decision we couldn't leave the office just because it's in a nice place, and it would be a bit. However, this does not change the fact that we have serious plans for the Vistula. 3 July Port Gdansk, and you know that this port access infrastructure is a priority for inland waterway transport, decided to tender for the feasibility study Here, too, I will answer the question in part. At the latest by the end of the following year, a detailed draft of this feasibility study on the sailing of the Vistula will be prepared together with a complete analysis. This is a slightly different methodology than that of the Oder. There we divided into individual elements the completion of these studies. We've partially done it ourselves, and we've partly ordered it outside. But due to the tasks that Gdansk performed so far, we could not leave this office in such a form. Of course, with all our heart, we would like it to be full of clarity... [[But most of the tasks that we're going to have in this neighborhood-- gigantic tasks.]] That's exactly what it is. However, looking at the dates, the fact that this 2019 is to be the feasibility study that the port carries out, of course in cooperation with the authorities, with us, with stakeholders... Well, we're still in the planning phase. Nor are there currently large investments in the wider water management that would be linked to shipping, while in the Oder we are doing a lot of these investments. We refurbish water grades there, there is a question of hydroenergy, so these are all ongoing investments, among others. also with the participation of the World Bank, and these investments require the support of people from inland waterway transport. But, of course, in the future, yes, so I hope that one day we will return to this discussion and we can say that we need strong offices everywhere and we are ready for it. But we can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u304	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Piecha. Please. Then you're Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u305	I would like to ask the Minister what class of sailing Odre has from Kędzierzyn-Koźl to Szczecin, and how many goods this Oder has left or transported. And what investments... Let me ask you another question: what investments are made there, and will this Oder be an international artery, or will it end with what we have right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u306	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u307	Without competing with Senator Sławomir Rybicki, I would like to point out that the railway lines end in Gdansk, i.e. these are the ends, and there is a district management of the state railways, while for example. in our voivodship this network is 20 times larger, and there is only district management if there is any railway management at all. [[Maybe we can move the capital to Bydgoszcz.]] We are, of course, talking about shipping, where these proportions are similar. Well, there's an international road route and there's gonna be huge road investments. So that we can smell fresh water, and in Gdansk it is hard to... [[What are you talking about?]] Well, it's hard, and I've been hiding out there. Even the Dead Vistula River is salty. First question. Why did the Minister say that your heart is behind Gdansk if you are an official here? That's one thing. But the more important question... [[The Bydgoszcz complexes.]] Exactly. Gdansk, Bydgoszcz Two nephews... well, two sisters. It's about the intermodal port. Maybe the bill does not settle this today, but there is much talk about such a great investment good for Gdańsk, good for Bydgoszcz, good for Poland. It's an intermodal port and therefore an investment... Indeed, it is true that this administration will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u308	Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u309	I'm so sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but... [[The railroad, the road and the river.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The minister told me about the World Bank, and that's why I had a question. Has the planned investments financed by the World Bank been verified?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u310	Minister, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u311	Thank you very much. I'll explain right away. I said that I am the heart behind a large IWT office in each of these places, without preference for Gdansk and other cities. I'd like to see it in a few others where we could potentially create it, too. As regards the very detailed description of the investment I understand that I will reply in writing because I will not be able to present numbers and episodes. [[You're welcome.]] Of course, we know that Odra is more advanced than the Vistula. Most of these investments, as you know, are flood-proof. We know that. There are several shipping investments. We also approach flood-related investments from a shipping perspective. What we can do by designing a water level at this stage... We are trying to ensure that this is in line with the requirements we have at European Union level at the moment, and we are also trying to adapt this to navigability. But these investments will not revolutionize Neither those currently run within the World Bank, nor under other funds or the POIiŚ, because they are pointy, irritating. The same is true when it comes to transhipments. I don't have any data this year, so I'd be happy to introduce... [[Okay, so...]] About the intermodal port... [[...for Senator Hare will answer in writing, yes? Am I getting this right?]] For the senator... [[Senator Piecha. Good. I'm sorry.]] As for the intermodal port, we are here in dialogue with Minister Słowik; there was also a meeting with the Marshal, with representatives of companies recently in the resort. For now, we are in the process of analyzing this concept, but we take it as a serious project. We do not say 'yes', we do not say 'no', but we do see the need to create intermodal ports with regard to inland waterway transport. Bydgoszcz is one of the options. We have very detailed data on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u312	Thank you very much. Senator Klich wants to ask you a question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u313	Thank you very much. Minister, already in Austrian times such a project was created to protect Krakow from flooding by means of the so-called. a relief channel. This channel was partially, in a small part, built by bringing water to Skawina. Are there any plans for this investment? Because she could really prevent such fear in Krakow as it was in 2010 during this great flood. She seemed to be able to beat the cliffs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question related to the basic slogan and the fundamental principle of law and justice in the pursuit of its policies, i.e. sustainability. Why are inland waterway shipping offices being liquidated in small towns for which they represent some kind of added value and are left in large cities which, I admit, probably do not even notice them as offices? I may have missed something, but... Tell me what it's like. Since one of the foundations of this law is the increase in the number of tasks of inland waterway transport authorities and the NIK indicates insufficient employment in inland waterway transport authorities, if they are eliminated, is it against or against?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u316	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the Minister has already talked about this, but there you go. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: I can say it again.]] Does anyone else want to ask a question? I guess that'll be the end of the question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u317	Thank you very much. I didn't answer your question about the World Bank. That list we're making now, we're treating it like it's closed. As far as the new financing perspective is concerned, we do not yet have a decision as to whether we will use the World Bank's funds. We treat this offer as other loan instruments and new investments with the bank so far we do not, but wait until the end of this perspective for it to end, well, unfortunately, under the conditions under which it is. As far as the Krakow theme is concerned, today I got detailed information about the channel, including the financials there is a large amount of . plus such a variant analysis of what could be a better solution than a channel, with recommendations, with arguments for and against. I didn't get to know it in detail. If necessary, I will be happy to submit this analysis, after an earlier examination. Nevertheless, this is one of the options we are considering. The limitation is a high cost, because in the meantime, the negligence that occurred there after the previous analysis, which was done probably 5 years ago, additionally increased this cost. But, of course, I'll send you the details. [[Thank you very much.]] We do not eliminate inland waterway authorities and in any of those cities where they currently operate there will be no reduction in the number of posts. If that were the case, there would be liquidation. We transform them from offices in the delegation. The Director of the Office shall become Director of the Delegation. We also have an additional pool of resources at our disposal for additional jobs, as well as for possible increases. We see the need for increases in these offices. After recruitment, after daily cooperation... This is an extremely valuable staff and a limited resource that we have in Poland, we see this, looking for new people. I understand that there is probably some element of prestige, that it is an office and not a delegation, but it does not affect the number of posts in any way. This number of posts will remain, or, in some situations, will be increased. Nor will we reduce wages, for there is nothing to reduce. These are now so low that we are not able to reduce them. And we absolutely don't want to do that. Well, among the authorities, it doesn't give rise to as much controversy as it does here. So, I think, maybe it's also worth talking to them about the emotions it gives birth to. We feel like we're with the authorities, so to speak, on the same barge. We are happy with these changes which are in water law, we enjoy the new competences that they have, and also this law, as a whole, which is important for the entire administration of inland waterway transport in Poland. So that I feel that we haven't done this reform invasively towards the authorities, because it's such a small group that we can talk to them every day. And that's what happens. [[As I understand it, the Minister here declares that employment will increase and wages will increase, including in delegations, yes?]] That's right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u318	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Wojciech Piecha and Bogdan Klich. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Starting with, I'd like to say that just like the removal of delegations' offices, the newly created ministry... I wish those people who are responsible for this transformation, for this depreciation of the value of the office, to be turned into a delegation of another ministry. And maybe they're personalized and they've increased their payouts. What we're talking about here, for small towns like Kędzierzyn-Koźle, I'm going to talk about it because I'm from this region. Of course, it is a sure restoration to the general Polish reality, getting rid of the last dreams. Why? Because everyone who carefully observes the reality of the Oder region from the perspective of the Opole region, sees that over the years, since the fall of the commune, there is only a decrease in the value of individual elements of Oder, starting with the bridge, a set of bridges on the Oder River in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, which lost the possibility of sluggishing barges during the renovation after the flood in 1997, then full-size. Not because the airlock is too small, but because the ducts that lead to the airlock won't allow the barge to enter them. There was one full-sized barge, from Koźl to Raciborz, and therefore this barge, as an absolute monopoly, served the extraction of aggregates. The barge was devastated. Time's up. Therefore, now from Koźl to Raciborz there is no mention of any dredging and any navigability. It's a section that's turned off, left out of nature. And even the annual drifts of this river, made quite bustling by a large number of people, show that sometimes even a pontoon must be dragged through the shallows. It's like this episode, so it's a total fairy tale. As far as the episode from Kędzierzyn-Koźl to Odra is concerned, the Minister came with me at the committee meeting to discuss a possible class of navigability. There's no room for discussion here, Minister, because it's already decided. A new railway bridge will be built in Oder as part of the modernisation of the E30 line. This is a railroad, so this bridge is going to be iron, heavy. Well, Main Opole, Oder, Western Opole... This bridge will be in the third grade. What does that tell you? Not that the bridge couldn't be lifted. It could be raised freely, although the distance between the newly built bridge and the Main Opole station is so small that it would also be necessary to raise the station, and that is already impossible. And so, between fairy tales you can put stories about the fact that Odra will have the fourth class of sailing. The assumptions already adopted by your predecessors, by the Ministry of the Environment, exclude this. And what does that really mean? In fact, this means that Oder has no chance of pan-European development. Why? Because in order to benefit from TEN-T resources, you have to have a minimum class IV. Class III is not financed by these measures. In other words, there's nothing to count on a subsidy of 80%. And that's where we get to the bottom of it, and that's where we get to the money. Without that money, any further action is impossible, but not only that. Let's go back to this Oder for a little while, or actually to the Oder connection to Silesia, which is the Gliwice Canal, which stretches 40.6 km. The Gliwicki Canal was built in hard times before the war, without heavy equipment. This channel with 6 locks was built in a round 4 years. He had a terrible name that praised the man who ruled the German country at the time. The name disappeared over time, but the Gliwicki Canal was functioning quite well for several decades until free Poland came. In 2012, the airlocks of this channel, which was built for 4 years, began to be repaired. These airlocks have been repaired without success to this day. That's what it looks like in practice. As far as the sailing of the Gliwice Canal is concerned, the assumption that it will be renovated in stages is so wrong that it is not possible to make a ring road, as is the case in the case of circular roads, which are avoided by the repaired element. If we renovate in stages, the canal will be unsailing as long as any repairs are carried out. So much for transporting the bar from Silesia to Kędzierzyn-Koźl. So now we're trying to... This year an experiment was carried out: transport of fertilizer barge from Azotów, from Kędzierzyn-Koźl, avoiding all strange places until Szczecin. Yeah, he was there a little earlier... But I'm skipping it. What does it turn out to be? Transport is impossible, even a barge with a very small dive. It was an old barge from Odratrans. Such bars in Europe are no longer produced. In Europe, more dive shoulders are designed and built, and they will not pass through Oder. You have to stop complaining at this point, you have to say something good, you have to commend the government for a few beautiful investments that it is doing. First of all, the government and ministry are implementing a European project to deepen the Oder from Świnoujście to Szczecin, and this is part of the European plan that Europe approved and showed already in 2006. This is a map of European routes, a map about Poland, a map shown by Europe. The Minister questioned her truth. If there is another This is a map from European sites. I'd like you to introduce her. I would kindly ask you to answer in writing, please attach this new map, if this is out of date. On this map you can see that Europe uses a little bit of channels that... Here is the one that is now being built. Next is the departure to Berlin and at the altitude of Berlin is the seaport. This is Europe's plan, and we are part of this plan on those hundred and dozens of kilometers that are now being deepened to 12.5 m. So much for Europe. There's a measure, there's a short section, and there's a fantastic thing. Which isn't marked on this map, but I can share it. I mean, the Polish government is doing a water level in Malczyce. And that is absolutely your great success, and for that I thank you and congratulate you. But let's get back to Oder's problems. Possible transport that is not carried out I'd like to make a mistake. No, it won't. Why won't it be? In order to carry out transport at the intersection, you need a port. It would be best, of course, to use those ports that existed, or the infrastructure that can be renovated and converted. Of course, this could be done, but during this government's term of office, the port at the intersection of the river Oder and the Gliwice Canal, which could handle these connections, was sold. I have informed you of this many times in writing. The answers I received from Minister Materna are not suitable for publication or for speaking loudly about them. It has nothing to do with the declarations made by the Polish government. It's nothing to do with the electoral promises we made. 35,5 hectares of the port of the exceptional area, strategic land, was sold for PLN 14,5 million. For PLN 14.5 million! To make it interesting, in this amount a few million is intended for the realization of the investor who bought the port. In order to be more interesting, the use of port functions is not planned in the near future in this port. You were aware of that. I've been briefing you on that. [[Who'd he sell it to?]] You did not move, in this respect you did not take advantage of the possibility of buying. So if anyone is going to talk about wanting to start the transport in Oder, it's okay, but between Szczecin and Świnoujście, using what the Germans allow us to do, because they need life to achieve their goals. If anyone's talking about a north-south channel linking the Czech Republic to the Baltic Sea... Yes, this channel is applied to this European map. It's not a secret. This is a channel that connects the Czech Republic to the Baltic through Germany. If anyone says we're going to do water energy, that means they're ruling out transport. Why? Water energy needs to be elevated. The French have water energy, no transport. The Germans have transport, they have no water power. I'm on it. If anyone's serious about water energy... In the 1970s a set of water grades was designed for energy from Warsaw to the Baltic Sea. It was supposed to be eight, it's only one degree, in Włocławek. And that's the approach to water energy. Of course, this approach excludes the possibility of transport, which should be understood by itself. I was talking about the harbor... No current maintenance of the waterways... If you're all... [[But time's up, Mr. Senator.]] I'm sorry. Five more minutes in the second round, please. [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Well, go on then.]] [[Mr. Senator, this is the second tour. But please, because it turns out there's no one else left to discuss.]] [[Voice from the room: It's five more minutes.]] [[Well, maybe you should continue.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no one.]] May I? [[Yes, go on. I'm sorry, but...]] I'll be done in a minute. I don't say much, Mrs. Marshal, but these are the things that... [[Yes, yes, please.]] I'm sorry. [[I thought someone else was registered.]] There's no Oder... I live at Oder's. They don't walk around Oder's dredgers. Let me see, please, maybe in writing, the answer to the question of where it is if it is. Where and at what time are the dredgers working on Opole section Kędzierzyn-Koźle? At what time, how many dredgers, how many aggregates have been made and how is the water road cleaned? Another issue is IWT schools. You are promoting Wrocław not only because of the transfer of competence to transport, but also because you build an IWT school there. The school, which is in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, has been in operation for 50 years. And I just got hit lately when I saw an advertisement for a new school in Wroclaw, where the interiors of the school in Kędzierzyn-Koźl were presented. [[It's a joke.]] School laboratories in Kędzierzyn-Koźl were used on a video to advertise the school in Wrocław. And that's it, ladies and gentlemen... [[It's a joke.]] I don't have a name for what it is. I'd be happy for you. He said, but I'd have to start swearing, and we're in the Senate. And what does it turn out to be? Well, yes, sir. If so, this is the only ministry that in this respect... Because you accused me of having to come and talk, but I have spoken to you repeatedly with Minister Materna, Minister Witkowski. You got it. full power when it comes to water. Until recently, there was a dissonance between the Ministry of the Environment and the newly established Ministry of Inland Navigation, but this was cleaned out. You have received full authority. Therefore, it remains only and only to believe I have a lot of faith in people. And appeal... If you want to talk about transport, if you want to promise Poles the navigability of the Oder, first check whether to provide navigability at level 4 of the class, while the bridges are now designed for construction of the third class, it is not an illusion. You can't do that to anyone. No one is to mock the Poles. There's a poem, Mr. Prime Minister called him up recently: Who you have harmed a simple man Laughing over hurting him exploding, A bunch of clowns next to each other. To confuse good and bad... The beginning is nice, the end is scary: A winter dawn would be better for you. And the rope, and the branch under the weight bent. It's awful, of course, but anyone who's trying to promise miracles-invisible, wonders-wines, cherries on the willow... If you want to carry out the development of inland waterway transport responsibly, the development of the country... Ladies and gentlemen, it's been three years of our rule. The entire Gliwice Canal, with 6 locks, was built in 4 years, and since 2012 we have not been able to repair the airlock. That, of course, is not an accusation to the Minister, absolutely. Minister, that's not your point. These are experiences... I realize we've been fighting stagnation for decades. It's obvious to me. I am aware that we are fighting the consequences of the negligence of previous authorities. The fall of these authorities, the level of their extraordinary ignorance and arrogance... but we also bear the burden of responsibility for making promises to Poles. You can't make promises to grow up. So if anyone is talking about the fourth grade of sailing, let them have any documents and support for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u320	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 912, and the committee report In print No 912 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I would like to proceed with a brief discussion of the Law on the amendment of the Water Law and certain laws. First of all, I would like to say that we are once again amending the Water Law Act. Today, when a year has passed since the adoption of the last novel and a half years of the law, it turns out that it is still full of gaps, inconsistencies, even errors, and raises numerous interpretation doubts. The novel put forward by the government today is to remove these shortcomings, and it is actually going to do so. I would like to come to a brief discussion of some of the most important elements that are included in this novel. One of the amendments is the addition of an article. 75a, which prohibits the introduction of rainwater or melting water contained in open or closed rainwater systems for the discharge of atmospheric precipitation containing substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment... That's a very good record. And here I have to say that all those who carry rainwater in single-family homes to the ground will not be subject to these regulations. The second issue, which I think is also important. Namely, an article was introduced. 187a, which states that the costs of designing or performing water equipment may be shared by those who intend to benefit from them, while, of course, there will already be a division of costs between the two parties in the water law permit. What else is new or very clear about changes? A minimum threshold to be charged for water services has been set. This threshold is 20 PLN. Finally, the novel introduces a transitional provision indicating that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be reimbursed to the municipalities for the exemption from property tax under the surface waters of lakes and from the land occupied under artificial tanks. So far it's been a matter of treating this land under the water... Taxes have affected local units. Now this will be clearly defined. There are, of course, a number of other regulations, including. administrative simplifications, bureaucratic simplifications. Namely, if someone wants to put a periodic building like an ice cream box or a fish fryer on the flood path, then of course he will not have to have permission to plant it. First of all, some concepts have been clarified by specifying who it belongs to. Namely, it was decided that water grades would belong to the category of flood structures and the definition of water metastases was clarified. I will not talk in detail about all the changes, because you can read them in the legislative papers that have reached us. I would just like to say that this issue was discussed in quite detail by the government side. There wasn't much discussion. After a brief discussion in the vote, it was unanimously agreed that we would refer this law to the Senate with a request to adopt it without amendment. So much for introductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u322	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski? Please. [[The undead Senator Rulewski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u323	Senator rapporteur... Yeah, I'm alive. There is a minimum fee of 20 PLN. And why not 0 zł, if something...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u324	Well, then it wouldn't be a fee if it was 0 zloty. [[Well, if I'm not using... if I don't have to pay more than 5 zlotys, why should I pay 20 zlotys?]] Ask the government side what gave rise to the establishment of this border. That's not what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u325	The second one is more complicated than that. You explained to the senator that you wouldn't pay to drain rainwater if it got into the ground. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u326	Oh, no, just the clean, unpolluted... [[Clean, clean. Well, I think rainwater's clean.]] ...from your own property, because if it's rainwater... [[Yeah, from my own property.]] ...who goes into the storm drain, she's not clean anymore and she's... [[Yeah, okay.]] ...in a closed system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u327	But it happens now that people save water and even the ones from the roofs, from the floors, use it for purposes, say, the ground, or use it for watering. Will they therefore pay for this water, which, as it were, is in the opinion of this law? Unless I'm wrong, it's being discharged to a storm system? [[From clean water?]] She's clean, she falls only on the concrete floor, and then she's used to water the parcels. [[I don't really understand how something can fall on a surface of a few square meters and this water...]] What few? [[...and this water is not collected. It's got to be collected somewhere.]] So let me explain that I, with 100 m2 of roof, collect rainwater, that's a dozen tons of water a year. [[But they're guttering in the barrel, I don't know... for what?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Well, then you're gonna water yourself, and that's how you do it.]] [[Thank you...]] I know you can do that, but if the charge is calculated so that I have a surface with a housing, in the sense that the water from that built-up area is being drained into the storm...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u328	Does the senator have anything to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u329	I mean, here's what I'm gonna say: ask the Minister about this philosophical approach. We really didn't talk about that. Besides, I will have a similar philosophical approach to the second law which I will present, namely on the matter of the things found.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u330	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No, I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Anna Moscow with us. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. You'll also be able to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not going to talk much about the scope of this amendment, because the senator has perfectly reported and purpose and detailed regulations. Just one more important change: the durability of permits will be changed, there is a change from 20 to 30 years. In the case of large investments, as they showed us e.g. Munchkins, it's a good idea not to apply for that permission again. Maybe I'll deal with the 20 zlotys right away, it'll be easier. What is it? With this 20 PLN we will not initiate proceedings. We estimated that the cost of 20 zlotys is a plus stamp. 'Cause it's a small decision. The minimum working time of the official, because this is the standard form that he sends, possibly urgency or telephone, or other actions to enforce this fee... At 20 zlotys, it just doesn't pay off. This is a common standard. In many cases, these are even higher amounts. Due to the fact that we have a lot of these small charges, the amount of 20 PLN was accepted as a threshold for cost-effectiveness, mainly in the case of sending correspondence. As far as rainwater is concerned, nothing changes here. What we've actually introduced is just to clarify that rainwater isn't sewage. Because so far there has been such a definition, so all the legislation that concerned waste water also concerned rainwater. Now we've clarified that rainwater isn't sewage. Especially in the case of dangerous substances, it was necessary to clarify and remove interpretation differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u332	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u333	Yes, you explained, at least about the first question... The reason for this 20 PLN is the handling costs that would have been incurred if a decision had to be made... So, as I understand it, it's gonna be paid by every property owner? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: We are talking about water services here...]] Yes. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: So we're really talking about all the water charges we're starting... We're not talking about tariffs, right?]] No, we're not. It's about the fee. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: So these tariffs for water and sewage or all water services, widely understood, both from individual and economic operators...]] So it's raining that storm water, too? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: All. All water services...]] That is the question: if this can be of less value, why do 20 zlotys have to be paid? Why is the office taking a promotion of 20 PLN for what I think, and how did you explain when the proceedings were initiated... And when the proceedings are not initiated?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u334	So 20 zlotys don't need to be paid. [[Isn't that necessary?]] So we slow down, we don't initiate proceedings, up to 20 zł in the case of water services... [[Uh-huh.]] That's the limit, the threshold that we've accepted as a threshold for profitability. In the case of higher amounts for water services... But this absolutely doesn't apply to rainwater and all those other things, because it's naturally free of charge... The closed circuit of the economy, including water management, is the preferred re-use of water, it is also the closed circuit and here the whole scheme... [[Uh-huh.]] We do not change this at all, and we encourage you to take such practices. [[Yeah, okay. The latter, so-called. philosophically, you also explained, which means if I collect from my roof, etc., this is a closed circuit and for this reason I will not be burdened in any way...]] Not in any way. Only operators, above 3.5 ha... This is already another fee for lost retention. [[Excuse me, just to fill in. I ask this because in one of the largest parks in Copenhagen no other water is used, only rainwater, of course falling not only in the park, but also from built-up areas.]] I hope that the Polish Waters did not send any application for payment to the senator on the subject of this rainwater... [[Copenhagen...]] ...because there's no such charge. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here is one very interesting provision on entry into force: 1 January 2021. In general, such distant dates are fixed when there is a process of creation, e.g. an IT system. Why do you give such a long period of time, so long vacathio legis? For what? What's a time-consuming process here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u337	Please. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Are the other questions...]] Will there be any more questions? I don't think so anymore. This is the last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u338	I'll be more specific because there's a misunderstanding here. This is due to the fact that currently Article. 36, i.e. the introduction of common water and sewage measuring equipment, has entered into force since this year. Currently, with regard to the collection of an increased fee We here use the system of control of entities, and we introduce this amendment to make declarations, and this article concerns meters. So it's not like the whole amendment... because the amendment comes in... [[He's not spontaneous, he's accompanied by another...]] That's right. It is simply part of the provision that is currently in force, and this is a transitional period to introduce water and sewage measuring equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u339	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Things Found. The text of the act is contained in print No 920, and the report of the committee In print No 920 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u340	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm standing behind the desk again to give you the report from the committee meeting you mentioned on the revision of the law on things found. It seems to be a very small matter, but in a sense it matters to all of us, but at the same time it does not fully solve the philosophical problem that I mentioned. Because the law on the things found says: who has found money, securities, valuables or things of historical, scientific or artistic value and does not know the person entitled to receive them or does not know their whereabouts, gives the matter immediately to the right old age. So much has been written in the bill so far. What is the novel? The following is added to this entry: unless only money has been found and their amount does not exceed 100 zlotys or the equivalent of this amount calculated according to the average rate announced by the National Bank of Poland on the date of the finding of the money, and where no such exchange rate was announced on that date, according to the last exchange rate announced before that date. There's actually no news about the return of the found. Always the competent authority to which this destruction should be given is the competent governor either because of the place where the thing was found or because of the place of residence of the person who found it. The law said the old man might refuse to accept this loss. And then what? The man who found the finder drives unnecessarily, doesn't know what to do with it, doesn't know what to do with this thing, especially when it comes to money. And now let's think, ladies and gentlemen: we find 5 zlotys, we don't know whose money it is. And this issue is not settled by law, the case is still open, as I say, it is a philosophical issue. The point is that the legislator relieves us of the obligation to give this money if the amount is less than 100 PLN. And with such a record, this law remains. The internal dilemma, the question of conscience, etc., is inconclusive, what to do if we find a smaller amount. Because no one is authorized to receive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u341	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. There are no representatives, so, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the State Protection Service. The text of the act is contained in print No 907, and the report of the committee In print No 907 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the room: Oh, series.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u342	I have a series of reports, so I didn't go to my own place. This bill, High Senate, actually I present in your replacement for Senator Zientarski. The Act concerns the amendment of the Law on State Protection Services. It is a law which amends the Act of 8 December 2017. It is intended to modify the regulation on the remuneration of State Protection Service officers for allowances of a permanent nature, i.e. a special allowance and an allowance justified by specific qualifications, conditions or place of service. At the same time, the Act specifies the amount of these allowances. The special allowance must not exceed 50% basic salary but not less than 1% and the allowance for specific qualifications may be 20% basic salary. These two allowances together shall not exceed 75% basic salary and are fixed for a period of one year. The result of these changes is also an increase in the amount of the maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget resulting from the amended law in the years 2018 to 2027. The committees were held on 23 July. They thought these additives were right. There was no more discussion. The Act was adopted without amendments and committees ask the High House to adopt the Act without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u343	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by Members. There are no applicants with us. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce the social security contributions of natural persons carrying out business activities on a smaller scale. The text of the Act is contained in print No 419 and the report of the Commission In print No 419 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u344	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 20 July this year on the amendment of certain laws in order to reduce the social contributions of individuals engaged in less-scale economic activities. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy held their meeting on 24 July. The purpose of the Act was presented during the meeting. This applies to single-member entrepreneurs with low income. The purpose of this law is to reduce the burden on the group of social security contributions in relation to their financial capacity. The Act covers businesses operating individually, making it possible for them to apply a reduced basis for their pension and pension contributions to the income generated if they did not exceed 30 times the minimum remuneration in the previous calendar year. The Act introduces the possibility for non-agricultural economic activities to benefit from a reduction in contributions, i.e. for 36 months in the last 60 months of activity, recognising that this will be an incentive to develop business and then switch to the so-called. general principles for carrying out such activities, especially since the upper limit of the lowest premium base was set at 60% the estimated average monthly salary as per general rules. High Izbo, the bill is intended to support entrepreneurs with low income, with periodic income, among others. performing seasonal activities to help maintain their business and contribute to the development of entrepreneurship. It is also intended to encourage those in the grey zone today to legalise their business activities. It is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2019. The Act also specifies how the average monthly income will be calculated. He's specified in the pattern. The coefficient for the calendar year shall also be shown in the formula. The President of the Social Insurance Institution will be required to declare the amount of this coefficient referred to in this Article. High Izbo, during the committee meeting, during the discussion by the Legislative Office, was also raised the question that the form of social security itself is of a slightly different nature and there is a certain doubt here or the risk that someone who has less social security contributions during this period will also be able to benefit from a smaller pension in the future. However, considering today's situation, also examining the fact that very many of these small businesses, mainly engaged in service activities, often point to problems... They say that they want to function legally and efficiently, but at certain times they have problems with effective or complete coverage of all costs. Therefore, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance analysed this issue and proposed it to me That's my opinion. A very good law against those entrepreneurs who periodically face such difficulties. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u345	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Mariusz Haladyj with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj: No.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am acting as a defender of a certain legal order which, in the context of this law, assumes Previously, the Social Insurance Fund serves to secure the risk of accidents at work, to secure maternity and, above all, to secure the receipt of pensions. Meanwhile, the Moravian Prime Minister's government is crossing the line, changing the objectives for which this fund was set up, drawing money from this fund A fund raised under a collective agreement, which should generally be self-sufficient This appropriation is intended to cover the cost-effectiveness and business activities. I don't mind supporting micro-enterprises, especially micro-enterprises, which are just at the start, but I am against taking funds from individual accounts. Capitalised measures, guaranteed by even the constitution In order to make them the means to be part of the government's economic policy, especially since the legal instrument in Poland allows other forms of support for entrepreneurship. The main legal element in this area is the Labour Fund. The Labour Fund serves not only in the event of bankruptcy, unemployment, but also activation. The Employment Promotion and Labour Markets Act contains elements that promote economic activity. It is not necessary to remind here, in this Chamber, that Polish and European funds are available to support entrepreneurship, including under start-up conditions . start-ups of citizens in their own business. In fact, as a result of this, I would say that the robbery economy is not just a deficit that is once sold as a deficit incurred by the contributors, but a second time. As a result of too little contribution... Above all, they are deprived of the same insurance. As the numbers show here, that's 0.5 billion a month. And it is not a coincidence that retired people report to me but not those with the lowest pension and not those with the highest, but this basic body of pensioners. They present pension decisions according to which the valorization is 3 PLN, 5 PLN, 10 PLN. Of course one can say: after all, the valorization is, there is even a law on this subject. But why can't this valorization have a larger scale? Especially since these older people are not included in the indexing of expenditure related to rapidly increasing, for example recently, repair services, all services... and this is within the range of 30% to 50%. , while the valorization is 0,2%. It is simply the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki that borrows loans. In fact, it doesn't even take so much credit as it takes away from pensioners who have worked out their resources as part of a capital reform to show off economic success. But these economic successes have been carried out many times, among others. By our government, when little insurance was introduced. It's a little insurance. She didn't always do her job. It consisted in the fact that whoever starts business will start business, for 2 years will pay a small contribution. I know a lot of people, and I don't want to say what kind of jobs they were doing, but in order to reduce their expenses, they switched one job to another to pay a smaller contribution. This was earlier the case for farmers when representatives of certain transport professions bought land so as not to pay contributions. It's just a robbery, in short. It could even be that we have a special situation, we do not have any resources, and it is necessary to promote, for example, that, as Senator Augustine rightly defends, avoid unemployment so that they are not, so to speak, customers of other state funds, read: tax. Meanwhile, Dear Government, Dear Prime Minister Morawiecki, you from the Labour Fund, who also had the function of a specific warehouse, a specific tank for needs in various spheres of activity, takes money to defend the conceived children - No, I don't mind. In order to ensure that its basic function, i.e. the function of promoting employment, is reduced to the robbing of pensions. For at least 15 years at the Labour Fund, there's still a surplus. The finance ministers are gonna borrow this money. Our minister Rostowski took billions of this money to secure the deficit. Today, Minister Morawiecki is taking another half a billion from the Labour Fund... excuse me, from the insurance fund. And the money from the Labour Fund is used for other purposes. And these are hospitals, and this is health care... It's just a state of drift, a legal drift, where you don't know what the means are for. Both funds, those from the Labour Fund, and especially those from the Insurance Fund, are contributions from people to work. The government can and should support them, not take them away. And that's the conclusion. I will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u347	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u348	Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Indeed, Senator Rulewski recalled my numerous statements, in which I was reluctant to look at a situation where you are trying to involve the funds of the Social Insurance Fund in achieving non-retirement goals. I have always described it as an attempt to handle certain matters at the expense of those concerned themselves. This price will be set aside in time and will reflect the amount of retirement in some future. Of course, it can be said that these solutions are temporary in nature, that better, so to speak, rust than nothing, in the sense that what the Minister explained is about people who might not otherwise have paid their contributions at all. But then they'd be unemployed and pay the state budget for them. This is the situation in which these contributions will be paid in a lower amount. But I am not going as far as Senator Rulewski and rather I am willing to accept this idea of government as one more, another, by the subsequent governments taking the effort, another way to raise and maintain the level of entrepreneurship of people who are trying to fight for their own business. We explained at the committee meeting that this only applies to people who, for various reasons, will temporarily find themselves in a situation where their revenues are so low that they will not allow the full contribution to be paid, as other entrepreneurs do. I do not fully understand why this loss will not be compensated by these people and at the same time by the Social Security Office from the state budget, since, which I also think is very good, wise and reasonable, both this loss in the Social Security Office, i.e. half a billion, as well as the possible potential revenue that would have occurred if it had been well started. The issue concerns 200,000 people. If these hopes were to be fulfilled, if these reliefs were to keep these people in employment, then... Well, various kinds of influences, as well as the resources that would have to be spent on aid, were estimated at PLN 1.5 billion. In this sense, the balance of this whole operation seems positive. Nevertheless, I believe that in the case of young people who are taking part in the business, and also in the case of those who cooperate... Let us remember that such projects, small and very small, are often of a family nature. Unfortunately, these reliefs no longer apply to those who cooperate, to those in the family. Therefore, in the wake of what the Members of the Civic Platform have done, I also make similar amendments, excluding those relating to health contributions, because in the Senate it would be a way beyond the matter of the law. So I make the same amendments as in the Seym. The idea is to include those working together in order to treat people in particular until they are twenty-two years old. The contributions to pension, pension, sickness and accident insurance would be financed entirely through the state budget and only then would this new mechanism be applied. And I also propose that the basis for the dimension of the contribution should be different, more favourable to those concerned. I hope that in the committee we will discuss this again, because we share the same intention that this mechanism actually brings something, that it actually embraces not only those who work, but also their loved ones in the family, and that That's not gonna change much in those accounts. Special attention is paid to those who have reached the age of twenty-four. At the committee meeting, the Minister was unable to say at once what group of people would be involved, but I have noted that it is rather a definite minority of all those to be covered by this law. And if that's the case, although I wouldn't be able to do it today. Nor would the resort be able to properly indicate the additional costs, the costs understood in a specific way, the budgetary costs this time, but it could certainly be risked to claim that they would be small and would not disturb this general account, that the balance of the entire operation resulting from the Act would still remain favourable to the budget. I therefore urge the Minister and the Senators to return to these amendments and think about them, and then, of course, the High House would like to introduce them into the bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u349	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Me too.]] Oh, Senator Rulewski, one more time. [[Yes.]] There you go. [[Five minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I want to complete my speech, but I also want to share some of this general reflection. I want to make it up to you. But I don't think there's a need in this House because there are people even more fluent than me. In particular, there are more aid measures in the field of economic activity, especially micro. In the FUS Act itself, it is possible to move the payment of late contributions. Right? That's most of all. It is not that the ZUS is such a tough inquisitor and simply carries out such bad activities in the event of temporary difficulties, but there is a tax system, which Minister Morawiecki praises... Prime Minister Morawiecki, and the former minister, because he then introduced reduced taxes for these micro- and small enterprises, for small turnover companies. Well, of course I forgot. What's my fault? That there is a Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. Here's a note: someone will say 'No', but these aren't employees. Since the self-employed are already employed by the Constitutional Tribunal and by the law implementing it. If you haven't transferred it to these CITs, PITs and others, you should do it quickly. These are earners and they are entitled to, among others. trade union rights, union coalition rights. But I'd like to make one more general remark... Various countries are accused of using hidden forms of promotion And this is Germany, and this is France, of course China. As the anti-dumping measures are carried out, let's note, let's be honest: maybe we do not even notice sometimes that the fresh air is also in the forests in Poland, that we are also sponsoring, we are also lowering prices through state sponsorship. Our country, on average, adds 20% to agricultural goods. It reduces costs virtually by 20% by the fact that it exempts health and pension contributions, not collecting any tax outside the land, which does not have any significant significance, as calculated, it is only PLN 0.5 billion against 1.5 million farms, but here we also apply hidden dumping. And one more general remark. The question is, are we with these different incentives, the next, I repeat, only in terms of the insurance system I'm not talking about others because they're accepted all over the world and they're normalized. Don't we introduce such a thing in the market economy as state-owned free entrepreneurship? For what is entrepreneurship, which is at least 1/3 based on state support? Wouldn't we get used to the 200-thousand-dollar group of employees... And she's bigger because others are driving... Aren't we used to the fact that she'll always be on a smaller or larger pot of state? That's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u351	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Robert Mammytov and Grzegorz Czelej have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Can I say two words about some of the comments that... [[Of course. You can comment on the discussion.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's synthetic. As for the comments made by Senator Rulewski, we have already had a lively discussion on this at the committee meeting. First of all, Mr. Senator, we don't cancel our contributions, we don't ruin them. I don't know if I'm quoting correctly. The social contract. Like I said at the committee meeting, we're not going here... I'm sorry to repeat what I said in the heat of the day: we're not walking like a cutter with this bill. She was designed to make these solutions balanced. I'm sorry to say this, but the statements of both senators show a little bit that we are going with this solution as a means rather than radically, at one of the walls. What is above all such an element of balancing solutions here is the fact that we have built a support system so that the entrepreneur can earn a minimum pension and that other insured persons or states do not have to contribute to this pension. Hence there is a minimum contribution of 200 PLN, of course according to today's indicators, which the entrepreneur will have to pay as a minimum. That's one thing. Secondly, there is an element of cyclicality here. This solution will be used within 5 years for a maximum of 3 years. It's all so... The ZUS calculated based on data from the Ministry of Finance, making prediction models that this is a system that provides a minimum pension. The fact that we're not violating the system here in some barbaric way... Let's see that we have a pro rata paid ZUS, whether it with a contract of employment or contract-order. We also have the lower ZUS. You two senators mentioned that. There is a small ZUS, there is a relief to start. What we're introducing is not a complete novelty in the system. Let us also remember that this is a voluntary solution. We're not forcing anyone to do anything here. Those Who Changed This is an example that the senator referred to as "non-exploited activity..." We don't force them here. These people will be able to pay a premium higher than the minimum, but even if they pay a minimum premium, they will earn a minimum pension. Other ways of supporting activities? Absolutely. Even our resort... I've been here before, with the project. Each of these projects concerned some form of support for entrepreneurship in some sector, in some area. This was less than direct financial support. For years, research or conversations with entrepreneurs have shown that the element of rigidity, the ruthlessness of the ZUS contribution is, however, a burdensome element. Our project is like coming up against these voices. Let's tell each other again what kind of entrepreneurs We're talking. We are talking about entrepreneurs who earn up to 60,000 a year, or PLN 5,000 250 a month. They're not big magnates or big-scale companies. [[...Inventory?]] Yeah, revenue. 5,000 200 zlotys of revenue. [[It doesn't matter...]] Exactly. This shows that the proposed solution is aimed at those most in need of support. For these persons, a delay in payment or the distribution of the contribution to instalments is not sufficient. Mr. Senator gave such an example, too. Tax solutions. Okay. Let us remember, however, that income tax is paid when income is already earned. Yes? And there'll be a lot of people here who don't even have a small income that could be taxed on a special basis. Imagine a situation where someone has a few thousand incomes, maybe a minimum income or a lack of that income, and he still has to pay the same premium a month. It's true, isn't it? So... [[Remove the tax advance.]] This still won't solve the problem of the smallest ones, because larger entrepreneurs Yeah. And let's look at the statistics now. Entrepreneurs with up to PLN 60,000 in revenue per year... Of these, 25% entrepreneurs, that is one in four, do not continue their activities just after using small ZUS support or... As far as the start of the Ulga is concerned, it's too early to sum it up. And here is a 5-fold higher risk of termination of this activity than in the next group, i.e. having PLN 60.100 thousand in revenue. This again shows that this solution is not for growth and is not aimed at those who do not need this support, but at those who really need it. Because we pay ZUS even when we have a loss. The occupational welfare fund and the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which is union law... I don't think that's quite the connection here. However, I would disagree with this thesis that we are moving these people to the pot of state. Because, as I said at the beginning, these people, as a result of these solutions, on the basis of these solutions, will earn this minimum pension. There was also a speech. I think that's what Senator Augustine said, but in fact it also appeared in Senator Rulewski's comments. The FUS will bear the high cost of this solution and we are destroying this insurance solidarity. The impact assessment shows the source of funding for this loss in the form of PLN 540 million per year. The projection of the impact on the public finance sector assumes that a reduction in the contribution revenue will be offset by an increase in subsidies or loans to the FUS from the State budget. So not the FUS, not the insured, we charge the cost of this solution. Alternative... Because we also talked about alternatives. But Senator Augustine basically answered that question himself, that the alternative is either a gray area or unemployment benefit. However, unemployment benefit is a periodic benefit, which is either 6 months or 12 months. So it's not like someone doesn't take up business, goes to unemployment and has the same effect because unemployment benefits are periodic. And in order not to prolong, I will move on to the last case, which is the amendments themselves. Although I have not yet seen them in writing, in my opinion there is a risk that these amendments go beyond the scope of this law, beyond the amendment. Of course, they are within the limits of the amended law, but the purpose of these amendments is quite different than the objective of the proposed law, because support for young people is for beginners in business, and we are here directing this support to small-scale people. For those who start business, we have a non-registered activity, we have a start-up Ulga, which was introduced this year, and we have a small ZUS, which has been operating for several years. The solution of granting benefits here to those who are just starting an economic activity is to support, to a different extent and subjective, than is done by the law which is being submitted to you here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u353	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, as a corrigendum.]] Did they mention a name? [[Yes.]] [[Yes.]] [[He didn't mention the minister by name.]] [[He was trading.]] Mr. Senator, I believe you. [[100%.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u354	You can check the transcript. My name and Senator Rulewski's name were mentioned. [[Oh, yeah, yeah.]] I, together on our behalf, would like to correct that this concern was about the loss in the accounts of the interested parties themselves. It is clear, of course, Minister, that every loss in the Social Security Office can be compensated? Either from the loan or from the budget, that's clear. And that's how it's gonna be in this case. However, it will not be so that what the budget will pay for this loss will go to the accounts of those concerned. And yet, the new pension system requires that receipts be recorded in individual accounts.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u355	Thank you, Senator. [[Corrigendum. May I?]] Gentlemen, correction, not discussion. The discussion is over. Do you want to further develop the discussion? Yes? [[No.]] No. Okay, then. [[Corrigendum.]] Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u356	The corrigendum is intended to convey to the Prime Minister and to you... the wish that the situation as it is in several countries, where the FUS's income balance is surplus, resulting in an increase of different entitlements for the recipients.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u357	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the law amending the law The text of the act is contained in print No 923, and the report of the committee In print No 923 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u358	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies, gentlemen! The Commission has dealt with the present law, which aims to clarify the rules governing the electronicisation of public contracts. In particular, it is about deleting, in accordance with the European Union's recommendations, the concept of electronic means of communication of a device called "fax'. The second thing is in particular... It has been clarified that the statement referred to in Article. 25a of this law, including a single European document, must bear a qualified electronic signature. The amended provision spoke of all statements in the public procurement procedure. What is it? It is about signing a qualified electronic signature of shares in the so-called. public procurement, online procurement. And the amendment is that in the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Public Procurement Law and certain laws is to postpone the obligation of full electronicisation in respect of public procurement procedures with a value above the Union thresholds of other contracting authorities than the central contracting authority. The time limit for the implementation of this obligation shall be postponed. It shall be extended until 1 January 2020. During the committee's deliberations, representatives of the Ministry justified the proposed change in the poor preparation of the public for the existing requirement to make electronic signatures mandatory for non-European public procurement procedures. In other words, according to the Ministry's orientation, such a time shift would be beneficial for public procurement under the current rules. Thank you. Aha, the committee recommends that the High House adopt the proposed law without amendment. The legislator also did not have any comments, he did not propose amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u359	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[There isn't.]] No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Would the President of the Public Procurement Office, Małgorzata Stręciwilk, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[President of the Public Procurement Office of Małgorzata Stręciwilk: If there are any questions, I serve.]] Good. Let's see if there's any questions. There'll be questions. So that I would ask the Minister to speak. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You're pulling out two years... well, a year and a half of duty, I'd say, the electronicisation of public procurement. And you're saying it's so that there's a better chance of getting the performers ready. But as far as I know, those contractors who are entrepreneurs have long had to, let's say, electronize themselves. How they send e.g. a uniform control file? They're bringing in a briefcase. Or in the mail? Simple matter: what hinders contractors in public procurement when it comes to the issue of electronicisation, which does not prevent them from sending a single control file? Unless I say so, the Internet has gone under the roof. What is the actual cause of this shift? It's a brief summary of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u361	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u362	This remoteness during the electronicisation of orders concerns small orders, below the EU thresholds. We have identified here that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are not primarily prepared to submit tenders in public procurement procedures using electronic signature, qualified electronic signature. We have identified this on the basis of public procurement procedures of greater value, above the European thresholds. Namely, in April of this year the rules which establish the submission of a single document by electronic signature in public procurement procedures, those of greater value, entered into force. A single European procurement document should be submitted using a qualified electronic signature. And here, in these orders above the European thresholds, we have already identified a whole lot of problems. We know that they have a problem with this just making small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but they also have a problem with contracting people who are supposed to accept these offers. Given the identified problem with public procurement... I'm not talking about the control file, because this one can be uploaded, it seems to me, using a trusted profile, not an electronic signature. So we took into account the problem identified in terms of public procurement and found that we could afford Because we are allowed to do so by European law to remove this electronisation by 1 January 2020 in order below the European thresholds. [[Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u363	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u364	How long does it take to get an electronic signature? Or a year and a half? That's one thing. And secondly, which order, which process, whether carried out by paper, not electronically, or by electronic means, can I don't know what to call it, to be polite and gentle. Okay, okay, okay, okay, So where's the greater likelihood of corruption in an electronic or paper-based process?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u365	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u366	This is about submitting offers in public procurement proceedings, and the offer in the light of the provisions of the Civil Code is a declaration of will. Therefore, in order for it to have certain legal effects, it must be submitted by means of If we are going towards electronic signature electronic signature electronic signature electronic signature electronic signature. And here, as I said, we have identified problems on the side of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. They just don't know, they don't know that this electronic signature is needed in orders, because it hasn't been needed so far. This is indeed new, which has been in operation since April this year. [[I'm asking for a simple answer. How long does it take to get an electronic signature?]] Of course, it is neither economic effort nor time effort for entrepreneurs, but there is a problem here... We spend this time in the case of these small orders to educate these entrepreneurs, as well as the contracting authorities, because they also have a problem with the electronic tool to prepare them for participation in procurement procedures conducted electronically. But it's not here. I'm gonna stress it again. For the internet, because of course, public procurement procedures are still ongoing using e-mail, the internet. This is happening, it is happening, communication is also currently done by e-mail, fax, but a mental barrier, awareness, for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is an electronic signature. [[Yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u367	There you go, Mr. Senator... [[Still in that question about corruption issues...]] There you go, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u368	When it comes to corruption... The procedure for public procurement is fully public, transparent... Electronicisation in this area, of course, facilitates verification of this transparency. I'm sure it's more transparent... But it's also about competitiveness. In public procurement procedures we have little competitiveness, a small number of offers. We do not want to create another barrier, from the point of view of I'm gonna stress that again. SMEs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u369	Mr. Senator Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u370	That's how I listen to a little disbelief. I, when I was working at the University of Technology, was in a room where offers were accepted. You come in with an offer in envelopes, you have two envelopes, and you wait until the last minute to submit offers. If someone shows up before him, he'll give you the right envelope if he doesn't show up. He's giving the other one. It's obvious. The introduction of electronics excludes such a banal price control system.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u371	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u372	Such tenders may also be submitted and withdrawn electronically by the expiry of the time limit for the submission of tenders. Because this is one moment for the contractor to make an offer, but until then, until then, it can also withdraw the offer. And really, the issue of electronization in this area is not going to change much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u373	Mr. Senator Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u374	Well, don't be angry, but no, because the person who folds the envelope and waits in front of the secretariat on the chair knows whether someone came in or not. Unfortunately, the person who does this online does not know if someone preceded it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u375	And will it be... and there's a trace... [[Of course.]] ...electronic. I think so. There you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u376	Of course. Depending on the ordering officer we're dealing with... With a smaller ordering party it can actually be used such methods, but in large orderers it is simply unrealistic. I fully agree that the electronicisation of public procurement gives greater transparency, and that is what we are aiming for. In contracts above the European thresholds, we have already introduced this since 18 October this year, but, as I emphasised, in contracts below the European thresholds we have identified this barrier and we do not want to lead to an even greater reduction in competition in public procurement, i.e. fewer offers. We really have a problem with this competitiveness right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u377	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[President of the Public Procurement Office of Małgorzata Stręciwilk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 931, and the report of the Commission In print No 931 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report on the joint meeting of the Environment Commission and the Infrastructure Commission of 24 July on the Act amending the Environmental Protection The purpose of the Act was laid down by Ms Agnieszka Chilmon, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Environment. The Act provides for the creation of a public limited liability company under the name "Polish Drewniane Domy S.A.'. It is intended to play the role of an investor developing energy efficient wooden housing. Housing property after their construction will be used for rent and rental with access to property, for people with moderate income. The company will be created by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Bank for Environmental Protection Akcyjna. The course of legislative work. On 20 July 2018, the Sejm adopted an opinion on the law at its sixty-seventh meeting. At the meeting of the joint committees, the legislator did not raise objections to the law. The course of discussion. Two senators took the floor. Senator Piotr Florek, who criticized the project and pointed out that without the participation of State Forests the project cannot be properly carried out. Then there was a discussion about the National Property Resources. He also asked questions that spoke those words. I asked about the sense of establishing this type of company and whether in Scandinavia, where the construction of wooden houses is developed, there are state-owned companies of this type. I wasn't given an answer. Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill was then put to the vote. This request was not accepted. At the end of the meeting, a motion for adoption of the law without amendments was passed, 5 Senators were in favour, 3 abstentions, 2 were against. So many reports.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u379	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Deputy Minister Margaret Golińska wish to speak and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only briefly because it was a question of the purpose of establishing a company and joining... I think it is worth pointing out what was at the heart of the creation of this company and of taking into account the entry of the environmental department into the issue of building apartments. There is no denying that there has been a shortage of housing in Poland for years, hence the housing+ programme implemented by the Polish government. But I also think it is worth emphasising that in the Strategy for Responsible Development one of the sectors that has the chance to become the engine of the Polish economy is the eco-building sector. Therefore, Minister Henryk Kowalczyk proposed In response to social expectations, especially the expectations of families with income, which do not allow for borrowing and buying housing on their own, and in view of the challenges and willingness to support the sector, such as the construction of wood, eco-building, the establishment of a company, which is the founder of the Bank for Environmental Protection and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. These are actions that initiate the State's commitment to the sustainable development of housing and hence the establishment of this legal person, which will aim to promote housing in Poland, using energy-efficient technology, building wooden residential properties, managing these properties, acquiring or creating new technological solutions in the field of wood processing, as well as conducting other activities. There was a question here about Finland. I would like to reply on this occasion that since 2011 a strategic programme for the wood industry has been implemented in Finland, a key element of which is the Finnish National Wood Construction Programme. Its aim is to promote construction in urban areas and use of wood in construction. Watching the countries of the West today, we see that eco-building, wooden construction is a theme increasingly undertaken by you, and I think it is good that Poland will also take part in this ecological trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u381	Thank you, Minister. [[There are questions.]] [[Question.]] Yeah, yeah, I see there are questions. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, one at a time. At present, the senators may make inquiries to the Minister in connection with the bill under consideration. You're Senator Czerwiński first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll admit, I just don't understand something about this idea. Is that supposed to mean that we have entrepreneurs and investors who put wooden houses on the market... [[750 companies.]] Oh, I didn't know, and now I know, 750 companies. The state is starting to step in, as I understand it, as an investor, because this is about building houses. I don't know... In some privileged position? Why do you even enter as an investor? I can understand that. we support such construction, but it is probably the municipalities that should build, they are responsible for it, they are directly responsible for housing policy. This is the first case. The second thing is ownership issues. At the beginning of 2 entities, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Bank for Environmental Protection, establish a company. And then it turns out they have to keep over 50%. action. What about the rest of the action? [[You can sell it.]] What's it gonna be? Will this share capital be increased? Will there be additional emissions limited to any entities? We don't have a statute for this company, so it's hard for us to tell what's going to happen next. State money is spent on activities that are already carried out on the private market. In that case, this company will be I don't know what to call it very privileged. And why wooden construction? Wasn't it supposed to be different with the State Forests and it didn't work out, and now what's left... sorry, some kind of skeleton maybe, but something left...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u383	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u384	Maybe I'll start from the end with the participation of the State Forests. In fact, the participation of State Forests was originally envisaged in the context of the possibility of transferring non-forest land, estimated in terms of the quantity, for a maximum of 300 hectares, of land which are already covered by local land development plans already planned for construction. And in fact, the participation of the Forests was rather in the direction of... it was a bow towards the State Forests, and this activity was supposed to be related to their activities today. This was supposed to be a promotion of Polish wood, but also a little symbolic of the company's involvement in government activities. Of course, forests perform many different functions, including social functions, hence the Minister's proposal to involve the State Forests in the programme, which is very important in society. There was a lot of social resistance, there was a lot of resistance from the foresters. Because, as I say, It was not a key issue for the operation of this company, the Minister decided to withdraw the State Forests. I do not hide that in connection with many probably misunderstandings, sometimes intentionally misleading the public, we did not want to allow this false rhetoric to be established in any way, hence the withdrawal. But, like I said, the woods haven't been crucial to this company since the beginning. Rather, it was about getting involved in image issues as well. As far as the financing rules are concerned, Polish Wooden Houses, as a public limited company, will operate on market terms. However, in view of the fact that the founders are also the National Environmental Protection Fund and the Bank for Environmental Protection, the Minister wanted the rules to ensure that the founders of this company retain control of this company also in the future. Thus, the provision that all votes per company's shares must always amount to more than 50% in respect of those two entities, even if this company were to become a public company. At the same time, the names of the founders will not be sold or charged, with exceptions. These exceptions are disposals or charges to the Treasury. Of course, we will apply the Commercial Companies Code in cases that are not regulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u385	Thank you, Minister. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u386	I am not hiding, Minister, that I am very concerned about this project, because, as my previous speaker said, you are entering into the competence of private business with money, which unfortunately does not have private business, because it is public money. And now the problem is this: if the State Forests were to enter this company, I still understand it, because it would probably be cheaper wood, material, they are talking about land that would be brought into the company, even there is a table showing the possibilities of individual voivodships and areas in the field of creating areas under this construction. But here's the thing. If I make a mistake, please correct me that last year more than 70,000 houses in traditional technology were erected in Poland, and those in wooden technology about 400 and 450, which is really very few. Doesn't the Ministry think that it would be more appropriate, like Scandinavia, to promote this type of construction rather than create a company? Because we have the board of directors, we have the board of directors, and by 2023 you will spend nearly PLN 1 billion 800 million. Well, I wish you all the best, but I don't really believe it. Shouldn't we have entered into the construction promotion program rather than the creation of a company?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u387	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u388	A similar remark was made by the Association of Wooden Houses. The position of the Ministry is that, when it comes to promoting construction and undertaking educational activities, it is nevertheless on the side of industry organisations. I will go back to the original idea of setting up this company: getting involved in social issues and supporting the sector. There is no denying that such an approach is also envisaged in the impact assessment, that this regulation will positively affect the competitiveness of these small, medium-sized enterprises by increasing the scale of orders and investment activities of the Polish Wooden Houses of the Joint Stock Company.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u389	Minister, maybe I'll ask you a question. I would like to say that I disagree with you, with this thesis, that this will strengthen competitiveness. If the State enters production, economic activity, it has an advantage over others, but it will cost, the state budget will pay the right price for this advantage. You referred to Finland. Is Finland involved in construction, or is it just technology and promotion? Because it's a big difference in my assessment. Should the state support technology, innovation, promotion? It's clear. But the rest? Does this Finnish company only deal with construction and investment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u390	That's a specific question. I will answer in writing because I cannot answer such a detailed question now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u391	Thank you, Minister. I don't require a written reply. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u392	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senators helped me a little bit, and I'm not gonna say it again. I feel a little sorry for you, Minister, for having to defend a project that doesn't have the slightest chance. There's no question about that. Forests were supposed to be crucial in this venture. Forests have property, wood, land. And what does the national environmental fund and FOOT have? They have money. Plus, the company was supposed to be formed, whose purpose, as you said, was, among other things. building apartments for rent, apartments with access to property. We're talking about moving in with us. The question is whether, in order to support energy-efficient construction, one has to start a company. Because there's a record here that the goal is to support energy-efficient construction. Do you have to start a partnership for that? Yeah, I'm sure you didn't. And now at the stage of work... I'll be done in a minute, just a question. At the stage of the Seym, there was a draft law on amending the Law on Forests, the Law on Environmental Protection... Well, it was a different project. This company Polskie Domy Drewniane was entered in chapter 6b of the Forest Act. Then it went to a completely different law, to environmental law, as chapter 5. Well, it was transferred from one law to another law. Honestly, after you left the State Forests, didn't you really think that your government project... Because it was your project, your government project. He made sense when it came to forests, because we know what winds are, cataclysms. Well, we've got a little bit of wood, and maybe there was some way to use it, although the company shouldn't be doing it, because the investor... Well, that's what my friends were talking about. This wood could be used precisely to develop construction in Poland, of course when it comes to timber construction. And it made sense, this government project of yours made some sense, but what was done in the Seym... the forests were taken out of this company, so this project was so stripped of it that it doesn't actually make any sense today. Have you ever thought about getting out of this case? We can help you here in the Senate, we can just not accept it and you won't have any problems. Have you thought about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u393	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u394	In order not to repeat: the project originally amended the Forests and Environmental Law, so it is not that only changes in the Forests Act were designed, and now suddenly, we don't know where it came from, environmental law came from. That's one thing. I have already said that forests were not crucial when it comes to setting up this company, and land inclusion issues are being resolved today. And it's been that way before, too. In such a way that more and more municipalities are reporting today, already at this stage, proposing land that is in their resources, so that the company can invest in this place through the construction of wooden houses.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u395	Thank you. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u396	Does this law fit into one of the tasks of the Ministry of the Environment to promote green activities? I think the answer to this question will explain a lot to people skeptical about this law. It can be a beautiful project, implemented in beautiful places. Each of us, or at least those who built their houses from brick, hollows and other elements, would like to have a wooden house because these houses are, as Senator Florek said, energy-efficient, nice, just houses that smell of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u397	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u398	Of course, the answer can only be yes. The resort of the environment not only promotes, but generally protects the widely understood natural environment, so as if it is natural to be involved in energy efficient construction issues, which, I believe, not only for human health, but also for nature health is most desirable. And thank you very much, Senator, for this positive assessment and seeing this important element also from the point of view of nature conservation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u399	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, is there any timetable for the goals you want to achieve? How many houses do you want to build and how long? That's one thing. Secondly, I still haven't gotten the answer to the question, what about the less than 50%. Who's gonna cover these shares when they're distributed? Because this company is up and it needs to solidify capital, but as I understand it, it's also organizational. Well, if you want to build houses, it's not like the bank's gonna build them. I don't know. Are you gonna hire somebody? I don't see it. Perhaps it makes sense, but, as I say, I don't think that's the way it should be done. And the basic question. Houses should build municipalities, that is their own task, with the help of entrepreneurs who have technologies, implementation opportunities, etc. Well, tell me if it's somewhere else. Let's leave Finland alone, do you know such an example, the state is building houses? It doesn't have to be wooden houses, so let's say that in the south it's gonna be briquette houses, roasted clay. Do you know of such an example that you build houses with the help of a company?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u401	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u402	To be honest, I did not specifically review what companies in other countries operate and whether they are building houses. But, Mr. Senator, if it were so simple that the municipalities were responsible for building the apartments and that's enough, we wouldn't have a housing deficit today. I think that the government's housing+ programme would be completely unnecessary if all of this were to run as fast and as we all wish. And because it doesn't work that way, it's good that this program was created, and I don't hide that I'm glad that the resort of the environment with its little brick, wooden, could add to that too. As far as plans are concerned, between 2018 and 2020 it is planned to build 11 000 apartments in multi-family buildings and one-family buildings, because this is also the case, 950 apartments. This is a theoretically short period, but this technology makes us not only unlimited when it comes to atmospheric conditions, but building is also much faster, and I hope that soon we will be able to talk about the first energy-efficient apartments created with this company.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u403	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for you. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and BIA must have more than 50% shares of the company. Is it therefore envisaged that the shares will be disposed of for private persons?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u404	I have a problem because I'd need a clue from the Legal Department... [[There you go.]] ...so as not to mislead you. [[It should be in the company statute, Minister.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u405	If you gentlemen had counseled and helped the Minister for a moment, I'd appreciate it. And now you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u406	Minister, I am surprised to hear that this company is intended to serve, among others. promotion of green construction, because if you look at it that way, you should ask whether after this successful experiment you intend to create companies for the production of solar panels, construction of wind turbines, production of electric cars. Well, you could say go ahead! It is my question that shows that other tools should and should be used to promote environmental protection. After all, there are many in the national environmental fund. Enough, and all you have to do is make good use of it. So that I would ask you to refer to this little bit of an awkward statement of mine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u407	The question is: will there be further initiatives in this direction? Yes? [[Yeah, pretty much. Yes.]] Good. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u408	At the moment, we are not planning further initiatives. I stress that the aim of the company is not to promote or fight for environmental protection alone. The aim of the company is also to enter into social issues concerning the government's housing+ programme. I think that the topic of turbines and other topics does not really fit into this combination of social functions, in response to the needs of families with lower... [[What about environmental protection?]] ...profits... Although, of course, from an environmental point of view, they are also important, necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u409	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u410	Minister, this technology, when it comes to wooden houses, is more expensive on the ground than traditional technologies. All you have to do is ask the professionals. You have to think about infrastructure, about weapons, about bringing... You're saying about the State Forests that it doesn't matter... Ma'am, one billion PLN 760 million will be taken out of the national environmental fund. How many eco-innovations, e.g. for the decommissioning of coal furnaces, etc. Can you make that money for 1 billion 760 million? There is no need to spend it, but we want to create a company and we want to bring capital to it in this amount. I understand it's something else. First of all, about the creation of a company that will build houses for rent You just don't say it directly. My question is this. This company may also be here. To purchase land. Well, he can acquire... We called KZNs. Their goal is... I'm not gonna tell you how many a thousand acres have been taken over... Most Forests have passed this protocol to KZN. They were created just to have this property, to have it, to have it, to give it to these programs, and then there were investors who would get these parcels and they would be able to build. Part of the apartments for rent, etc. Here you are creating an additional company, which is also to have land. Few of this, in point 2, is written this way: the company can also carry out renovations or reconstructions of residential buildings. Oh, I understand that this company first this company Polskie Domy Drewniane was registered in the Forests Act, but it fell out of it and went to another law, not only to build wooden houses, but also... But tell me that's what this is about. She can also carry out renovations or reconstructions of residential buildings. And then maybe it will transform this company so that it will be able to be a developer, which is to develop and build apartments in Poland+. If that's your idea, tell me that's what this is all about. It's about being created... As far as KZN is concerned, we assumed in advance that there would be no investors who would want to build these apartments because they were bound for 15 or 30 years by a contract, rent, because half of them could be in the open market, half of them could be in the open market. No, no, no, no, We talked about it here, I said from that bleacher, it's not gonna work. So it didn't work out, it didn't work out, and right now you're trying something that doesn't have the slightest chance of realization. There will be only losses and nothing more from this venture, because no one can build cheaper for that kind of money. [[Okay, Mr...]] You'll spend the money. So the question is: will this company, in addition to acquiring land, also carry out such other activities and build not only timber houses?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u411	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u412	First of all, I must protest against the fact that this is an undertaking, this bill and the company are used to take money out of the national fund. Maybe it was a thought shortcut, but... [[We're different.]] ...very unfortunate and I can't leave him without comment. The national fund's monetary contribution will be financed from the National Environmental Fund's basic fund. But, of course, the company we're talking about is a company that is going to operate on market terms in the future, so at some point it just has to earn itself. As far as targets are concerned, they are obviously included in the bill. The company can acquire land, carry out renovations, rebuild buildings, acquire, create new technological solutions for wood processing, acquire and process wood raw materials, sell and purchase wood products and carry out other activities related to energy efficient wood construction or accompanying infrastructure. And this is the whole directory that was included in the bill. If we wanted to, if you wanted something more, we'd have to change the bill. So that for today other activities than those provided for in the Act are not planned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u413	Thank you. [[Again.]] Mr. Senator again? There you go. Only, Senator, I would ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u414	Yes, yes, short questions, Mr. Marshal. Sorry about the other ones, I could have split it up, too wide... Now I'm just going on. Minister, how will the company purchase wood, under what rules, from who, from whom? Is it in the open market or some other way? Well, if he's gonna build cheaper, he's gonna have to buy cheaper in some way. How is this company going to buy wood?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u415	In the open market.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u416	Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you.]] And to my question, is there an answer? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Yes.]] There you go. [[She was here.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Well, of course...]] The question was, is it possible to get rid of... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Baking shares.]] ...shares to private individuals, whether the company will... There was no answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u417	Yeah, there'll be a way to get rid of the stock. Except that you still have to remember to keep more than 50% in order not to lose control when it comes to the National Environmental Fund and the Bank for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u418	That's more than 50%. What's left over there is gonna be wasted, right? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Yes.]] I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u419	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Any such undertaking must be cost-effective. If there's a company, she has to earn it. Therefore, it must be a project that will be financed. Of course, he'll get backup, PLN 1.7 billion. But I'm sure you could use that money better. That's what companies are for, they're creating them... and let them put their capital, their money into it, not the National Environmental Fund or the Environmental Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, the initial intention of the company was clear. And we could agree on that in some way. If the State Forests were in this company, if they really were the cheap wood that might appear there, somehow they would acquire, then with this technology, which is more expensive than traditional technology. This is without any doubt, we can say that wooden houses are cheaper, but they are not That would make sense. After the discussion in the Sejm, this law was substantially amended. I don't even know if these fundamental changes... But it was a government project, and the government said about it, if that's how we can change it. Because this company was to consist of 3 entities: the National Environmental Fund, the Bank for Environmental Protection and the State Forests. And at this point, in connection with the foresters protest, and we also remember the previous protest about passing KZN... And it turns out that one of the most important entities in this company is excluded. So what did you have to do? Well, you had to take this whole company out of the Forest Act and move it. Because it was originally in the Forest Act, because it was a fundamental goal. And then something had to be done, so she went to the Environmental Act. And so now we have a situation that we have a company that's supposed to run these projects, because it's commercial law, a public limited company. So she's going to be an investor now, and she's going to build cheap houses. And as a company, he has to build these houses on some ground, he has to carry out this whole investment project. Then we start with the ground. That's why KZN was the National Property Resource to which the Forests transferred some thousands... I don't know if I took it, but... It's probably on the desk. How many thousands of hectares have been transferred to the Forests, and very few other entities, but this has been transferred to KZN in the form of lists that there are... Because we remember that the second stage must be a takeover, which means we need to analyze which plots we need for construction. We take these, and we give the rest back. And, of course, the Forests have delivered most of the land so far. Because how much of this is meant to be, I don't know. So we have land in the National Property Resources. And it's clear. They'll transfer, they'll operate, they'll arm, they'll trade with these land and they'll trade... But this company is going to buy land. Well, if he's gonna buy it, that means he's gonna buy it again, buy it again. Well, we know what it looks like when it comes to land trading, especially in the case of KZN, we explained that. As an asset valuer, I can talk a lot about what it looks like to acquire land, from my professional experience. And that's why I said that KZN is another unnecessary unit, because we have a real estate cadaster, we have records, and everything is there, all we have to do is collect, count, see, not create a company. But this company was designed for infrastructure. She was supposed to build the infrastructure so that the construction of the apartments could be carried out. And there's another way to explain it. But creating something completely new right now... Unless, as I said, the idea is that you can't build these apartments in this system that was offered. So the company's gonna transfer the land... There was talk of an investor for perpetual use, today we are fighting eternal use. This is where we fought to make sure there was no eternal use. The company is to transfer to the investor, the investor is to build the building, pay 25% values and build apartments for rent with a path of access to property, but 50% maybe on the free market and the other 50% That was the idea. Well, what does it turn out to be? I said in advance that there would be no investors who would want to do this. And I don't know if... Of course, there are isolated cases. We can talk about Jarocina and White Podlaskie, but it was built on a completely different basis. Houses began as other constructions... I'm not going to talk about it anymore. And it just didn't work out. And now I see that this company that's about to start is going to be such a complete investor. So it's a state investor who's supposed to grow later, who's got... Why, I'm asking. We have companies that carry out construction, we just need to adapt the rules so that they can continue to implement, build. We're all in favour of building, behind cheap construction, we're all in favour of people who can't afford to buy apartments in the city, and so on... We're all in favour of making rent payments. We've recently passed a bill. And great, there are subsidies and they will be able to use them. And we support all these projects, only these projects have to have arms and legs, and that just doesn't have them. I know the minister is trying to defend himself because he has to, because that was the idea. But the company didn't leave. It's just the Forests... As you know, there are State Forests and there are miners who have the power of penetration. The State Forests protested and withdrew. This project does not have the slightest chance after the exit of the State Forests. If the State Forests were in this company, cheap wood could be used. But the Minister said it would be a commercial law company. What's that? She'll be buying wood on the open market. And who's she gonna compete with? With those companies you were talking about? Instead of doing environmental projects, we will put PLN 1 billion 760 million into this company. Well, that really doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u420	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The text of the Act is contained in print No 925, and the committee report In print No 925 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u421	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment a report on the procedure adopted by the Sejm on 20 July 2018 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. After a brief discussion at the meeting, the Commission proposes to adopt a law without amendments. The majority of the senators voted in favour, 2 abstentions. I may briefly tell you why, following the adoption of the original text of the Act in January 2018, it was necessary to amend, clarify and introduce certain additional provisions. Namely, all activities carried out at the conference in Katowice, which is to take place at the turn of November and December of this year, are agreed with the Secretariat of the Climate Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. Preparatory work was carried out over a period of several months. During this work there was a need for additional... Maybe I'll read it to make it quicker. The modifications envisaged by this amendment are due to a change in the concept of chairing the COP24 Conference by designating a candidate for the President of the Special Conference of the Government Plenipotentiary for the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties. The proxy will perform the following tasks. He will chair the negotiations, cooperate with the secretariat, establish and maintain contacts and exchange information with the authorities and institutions of the States which have served or will serve as the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties, initiate national and foreign meetings, including ministerial consultations, informal consultations, informal meetings of negotiators or experts held before the conference and took part in those meetings. The proxy will be operational until 31 December 2019. This is also an additional change in the team. The Marshal of the Śląskie Voivodship is also included as managing body for regional rail transport. A special envoy of the Foreign Minister for Climate Affairs will also be appointed. What is important in this law and what was raised during the committee meeting? The Act provides for an increase in the ceiling for funding the task of ensuring the organisation of conferences. It may seem that this increase from 128 million to 252 million is an increase of quite serious, but this is due to various reasons. Namely, for the moment more than 30,000 participants have signed up to attend the conference, which is a much larger number than the previous conferences. The organizers expect that there may be up to 40,000 participants. Accommodation and safety should be ensured for these participants. In recent months, there have been various forms of threats, including attacks in cyberspace and other events that require increased participation of certain institutions. This is the reason behind these provisions on the increase of resources. The Act introduces rules that will allow police officers, State Fire Service, State Security Service, Border Guard and Military Police officers to be paid a flat-rate equivalent for serving in a time exceeding a statutory working time standard. The equivalent will be granted to officers between 30 November 2018 and 15 December 2018. It is intended to be an allowance for officials, but will not be treated as a personal remuneration and will not be included in the remuneration. The payment of the equivalent will take place by 30 April 2019. It will also be possible to sign an agreement between the Minister for National Defence and the National Environmental Protection Fund on these activities, i.e. to transfer funds to carry out the tasks related to COP24 conference. There was no correction. I ask you to adopt a law that the Committee on the Environment has not amended. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u422	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u423	Senator, the cost in connection with this equivalent increases twice, from PLN one hundred and twenty million to PLN 250 million. So twice, even more than twice. And you were talking about the equivalent for the officers and the military. [[All security services and also...]] Yes. In connection with overtime, I understand, because it's so simple... well, Senator, are there any overtime in the army? Maybe he'll...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u424	Mr. Marshal, it's not a question for me, I'm sorry, it's a question for the Minister of National Defence. [[Then prepare the Minister for this question.]] I'm in the scope of the bill of conduct... [[I see. Then prepare yourself, Minister, because according to my knowledge in the service, in the police, etc. They are, but there's no overtime in the army.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u425	Mr. Marshal, that's an opinion. The question was. The senator didn't answer. [[Question is, are there overtime in the army?]] She said she wouldn't answer. Well, maybe it's for the Minister, possibly. Are there any further questions? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] No questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u426	Good. Why don't I answer the marshal... [[Oh, there you go.]] ...according to the current state of my knowledge. Namely, these funds are increased from 128 million PLN to 252 million PLN, so it is not twice, it is almost twice. They will not only be dedicated to these equivalents, but also to all the other issues that have emerged during these six months. We are not the sole organizer of this conference, we are in a certain arrangement. And this conference is very valuable, even because we can present ourselves organisationally, we can present our ideas on environmental protection, climate protection, in which we are one of the leading European countries. It seems to me that the military is called for a little bit of other tasks, while what will be done there... Well, they have to leave the barracks, they have to get there, etc. This is not an extraordinary event such as the participation of the army in the rescue after this storm in the north of Poland, when the forests were destroyed, like the participation of the army in action during floods or some extraordinary events. This is the participation of the army necessary for the protection of crowned heads, representatives of many countries of the world, because among these 30 or 40,000 people there will be many who require special protection. Besides, Mr. Marshal, as a protected person until recently in a special way, knows best that this protection, especially when travelling to other countries, is strictly required. And without this protection, without its provision and without the means for it, many of these people would simply, for fear of their safety, not come. And this is a unique opportunity for Poland to present itself once again in the 21st century as a world country during a large, hugely important event. [[I have another question for you, senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u427	Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u428	Senator, I don't question the importance of this conference, the need for protection, security. It's clear, only costs increase almost twice. Couldn't that have been predicted before?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u429	There is a determination of the amount, of the amount, of the amount, and therefore need not be used 252 million. Maybe 200 million, maybe 201 million. [[And it could be 128...]] Yeah. [[It can't be because the bill increases it. It increases, because the costs will be higher, you know. But I don't want to dig it up here, I'll ask the Minister. Because you said you calculated the cost of this extra-normative working time... you told me about the military, which is why I asked about the military, because I don't think the military has any...]] Thank you very much. I think the government will complement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u430	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the position of the Government. Would Minister Margaret Golińska like to speak? I think I need to ask you because the marshal has already announced that there will be questions. But before you ask questions, you can still comment on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, senator rapporteur, for the many details that have been included in this bill. In fact, as I can see, the topic of cost increase and the possibility of participation or participation in the Military Gendarmerie is mainly moving. I would just like to point out two points on this subject. The first is that during this rank of celebration, we must ensure the highest possible safety for our citizens and for all visitors visiting us. And it was the police who asked. .. and usually invites The Military Gendarmery. And in this respect, the MMA has also already signalled that such needs will be. This was the case when we had the visit of Pope Francis, when there were World Youth Days in Poland. So this solution and this equivalent that we are talking about today is neither news nor a solution that would not have been practiced before. This equivalent is not only possible, but in my opinion for this extraordinary service should be paid to our services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u432	At present, senators may ask questions to a government representative. I know that Marshal Borusewicz said... You're welcome, if you'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u433	Minister, why didn't you include these security costs, the extra costs in the original bill, but now you've done the math? And question two. Are you going to pay soldiers the equivalent of money for serving in time beyond the statutory standard of service time? [[Please...]] As far as I know, there's no standard service time in the military, and among other things. The military, or Military Gendarmerie, is also different from other services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u434	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u435	I can point out that these issues have been consulted and with the Ministry of National Defence, and with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and these rules for granting equivalence have also been established before. As has been said, this is happening between 30 November and 15 December, this is the special service, and due to the implementation of tasks directly related to ensuring the security of all participants of the conference, the service will be carried out in a time exceeding the statutory standard of service time, both in terms of fire department, police, border guard, customs service and military police. As for the details of what it looks like on the part of the Ministry of National Defence, I can, of course, make a specific request to the Minister responsible and answer in writing, if this is the case...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u436	That's what I'd like to ask you... that's a written answer. I don't want to bother you, of course I understand that you don't need to know yourself in the army and in the service... So all these servants, yeah, they have a certain working time... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Mmm...]] ...and they're paid the equivalent, and the army doesn't have a specific working time. [[But he's out of place...]] But it's for accommodation, etc., everything... But I read here that the military is also supposed to receive an equivalent for exceeding working time, hence my question simply. If...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u437	But it's already been answered, so... [[The answer will be given in writing. Thank you very much.]] It'll be in writing. Senator Florek is asking a question now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u438	Minister, I recall the United Nations climate conference in Poznań, I think it was COP14, as I recall, in 2008, from 1 to 12 December, 190 government delegations attended... I've been actively involved in securing this venture, this conference, equipment for the police, the fire department, the service... I would ask this question: do you have any data on what it looked like when it comes to costs at previous conferences? Were they similar, higher? Because we're talking about growth here, which is very big, 100%. What were the costs, for example? for the 2008 conference in Poznań? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u439	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u440	It is difficult for me to refer to 2008, it is too long a time, but I can compare it with the conferences that took place in the previous years in 2017, 2016, 2015. In 2015 in Paris, PLN 804 million, in Marrakech in 2016 PLN 387 million, in Bonn in 2017 PLN 331 million. So all these peaks were much more expensive than our planned, nearest COP24.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u441	The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u442	I'm just gonna ask... Minister, I understand, well, in Copenhagen, etc... But we're talking about Poland, so that would be a better comparison... I say, for example. about international trade fairs in Poznań, because there was this conference... I don't think that's comparable. We're about to compare wages, what I make, and how much a parliamentarians earn in another country... [[Voice from the room: Yes, we will compare and...]] Therefore, this is not comparable to me. If you could answer in writing about this conference in Poland, I would ask for it, because that would be an indicator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u443	Of course, I will reply in writing when it comes to 2008. However, it is also worth pointing out that in the case of the conference in Warsaw the costs were actually lower, but also the rank of the event was lower and the participants were 12 thousand. Today, at this moment we know that we are talking about a minimum of 30,000 participants, and this is sort of the starting point. As for the costs that have increased in the last few months, I think it is also worth highlighting the requirements of the United Nations in terms of security and cybersecurity. These issues were not foreseeable. They are today in the framework of the UN agreement being pointed out and raised as key.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u444	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u445	Minister, I'd like to ask you for such a private assessment. I have here maybe not a report, but data from World Youth Day organisations in 2016. In total, all costs are PLN 201 million, with these pilgrims paid 142 million. Minister, isn't this getting too big a Byzantium? I don't know what to call it. Aren't we putting too much Byzantium into this? What real effects are we going to get out of this? Are these just two-week vacations for environmental activists?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u446	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u447	It cannot be hidden that the COP24 conference is not only a prestige for Poland, it is obvious, but I think it is also a great opportunity, because it is a time when we care, and also because we are a Presidency, we are responsible for it and we can have an impact on the implementation of the package implementing the Paris Agreement, and this is absolutely crucial for Polish climate policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u448	Madam Minister, contrary to appearances, you could convince me if I knew how much we would save on climate policy. I'm talking about how far we're going to get away from the Union. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Again. How far are we gonna go...]] ...from the European Union and its policies, or I don't know what to call it, actually, ideology, because it's not politics. Environmental ideology? If we actually save money on this, it might be worth investing in. Maybe it's worth investing 200 million to save money, for example. In two or even ten years, it was 2 billion, 10 billion. Are you sure we're gonna get so much money from this conference?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u449	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u450	I will try not to answer this question, especially in the context of commenting on our relations, potential profits or losses as far as the European Union is concerned. But if you ask me about my private opinion, I can answer that this is an extraordinary opportunity for State Forests, and they are particularly important to me, especially important and especially close to me. For some time now, we have all seen a lot of pressure on foresters and this pressure on both the inside and the outside. And in my opinion, this is a very good opportunity to show how the climate is affected by forests, also in terms of carbon dioxide absorption, but this is also an opportunity for all conference participants to show what it is obvious to us that the forest economy, a sustainable multifunctional forest economy, which can combine nature protection with social, educational and productive, economic goals, and at the same time ever increasing biodiversity, is something that other countries can learn from us. And also in this respect, on COP24 we will want to act, to present these issues, to inform about it, but also to convince that when it comes to forests, we can talk not only about climate impacts. It's about wooded or deforestation, but it's also... I say, among other things. about a project that is being carried out by the State Forests concerning forest coal farms, which is already envied by other countries, such as China. When their ministers were in Poland and were familiar with this project, they said that they would like to learn from us. Every minister from the environmental ministry who is going to meetings with representatives of the environmental ministries of other countries... The topic of forest coal farms is always presented and always meets with great interest, great admiration. So that aside from all the other issues important for the Polish interest climate issues... From my point of view, the person interested in State Forests, I can say that if we can do this, it will be a huge success of Poland. [[You convinced me.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u451	Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Borusewicz and Flork. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 911, and the committee report In print No 911 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission of Budgets and Finances at its last meeting dealt with the Law amending the Excise Tax Act and the Customs Law. It was a government project. The government represented the Ministry of Finance. In general, this law introduces simplifications and facilitations in the pursuit of business activities related to excise products, inter alia. by removing certain burdens, by digitising documents and by clarifying the rules, by eliminating interpretation doubts. At the committee meeting, the current Deputy Minister discussed the four most important changes that this law introduces. There are more specific changes in excise duties, but four of these are most important. Firstly, the Act introduces a zero excise duty on compressed gas and liquefied gas. Here will be a loss for the state budget of about PLN 8 million, but the Ministry has announced that it will accept such a loss in order to promote this fuel. This is part of the environmental action. The second amendment discussed concerns the definition of excise goods losses. It's about producing beer and wine products. This is about cases related to excise exemption of such defects. Until now, there have been standards that have determined the amount of defects that may be exempt from excise duty. Today, if businesses properly document this, all these losses can be exempt from excise duty. The third element I mentioned at the outset This is the introduction of an electronic delivery document used to move outside the excise duty suspension procedure. And here also the Ministry of Finance claims that it is fulfilling a certain demand of entrepreneurs. The Ministry's representative also stated that this electronic document circulation would facilitate the control of the National Tax Administration. And one more element was raised in this law, namely the one which stems even from the name of this law. As far as customs law is concerned, we adjust the issues related to the calculation of interest on customs duties and introduce the same rules as for other taxes. The Senate Legislative Office submitted 7 specific comments to this project. Most of these comments are legislative, editorial or clarification comments. Only one comment was discussed in detail, first note, namely the date of entry into force of certain provisions, specifically the provision of the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1). The Legislative Office had some doubts about what the Ministry was talking about because it says that this provision comes into force after 14 days. The Legislator had some doubts as to whether this should not apply from 1 January, but after having been clarified by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, as to how this provision should be interpreted, we considered that this provision should enter into force 14 days after the announcement. Therefore, none of the senators took over the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. This law was adopted unanimously at a committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u453	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Nowak, a representative of the government, like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Piotr Nowak: No, thank you.]] Thank you. In that case, I would like to say that the senators may now submit questions to the Minister as a representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Then I'll open the discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Act on the Polish Economic Institute. The text of the law is contained in print No 924, and the report of the committee In print No 924 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u454	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation concerning the Act on the Polish Economic Institute. The Act on the Polish Economic Institute aims to create a scientific and research institute, a Polish Economic Institute, in place of the Institute for Market, Consumption and Conjugation Research The State Research Institute. According to the justification of the draft law, the Institute's activities will be used to achieve important strategic objectives for the economic and social development of the country. The mission of the Institute will be the development of Polish research and its popularization both in Poland and abroad. The Institute will be supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers, who will also appoint and dismiss the Director of the Institute. No legislative proposals were submitted during the discussion at the committee meeting. The Commission asks the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u455	Thank you. At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators want to ask... Senator Alicia the Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u456	Thank you very much. Where will the headquarters be? And is the newly formed economic institute taking over the crew of the previous...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u457	The information submitted shows that there will in principle be no change here. I've already quoted the justification. It is the President of the Council of Ministers who will appoint and dismiss the Director of the Institute. As far as I know, it's going to be a continuation. [[What about headquarters?]] In Warsaw. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u458	You're asking Senator Rocki a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u459	Let me ask you two questions right away. A little further, Senator, I'm gonna ask you what the employment plan is. What number, how many people? And second question, of a more procedural nature. Why didn't Professor Wind's committee do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u460	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u461	I won't answer the first question because at the committee meeting From what I recall, such a discussion was not conducted. Some issues were raised, but concerning the functioning and taking over of tasks from an institute that has so far operated. And as for the second question, It is not my competence and not my authority to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u462	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I can't see. No one volunteered. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers was authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. We have Minister Paweł Szrot, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes, please.]] You're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to speak very briefly because it's a very advanced time. Mr Senator, the rapporteur has made a very comprehensive presentation of the proposal. The name of the institute is changed, the organisational formula changes, the legal formula changes and, above all, the financial formula changes. All of this will lead to a more efficient operation of this research and research institution for the Polish economy. As far as the debate in the Sejm is concerned, there has been a charge about the speed of the proceedings, but I believe that very few projects so concise and so simple have been discussed so thoroughly. Everything was completely explained. Legislative amendments have been tabled, substantive amendments have been tabled, all doubts have been clarified and all issues have been agreed. High Izbo, please accept this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u464	Thank you, Minister, but wait a minute. And now the senators can ask a government representative about this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr Marshal, thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Let me inform you that no one signed up... [[Senator Rocki signed up.]] Excuse me, Senator Rocki. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u465	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! In my speech, I would like to refer, first, to the content of the bill, to the draft law, and secondly, to the justifications. I'll start with Art. 3, which says that it is the task of the Institute to inspire, organise and conduct scientific research in the field of economic sciences. I am particularly touched by the word "inspiring," because it is as if so far there are not several hundred universities that are engaged in economic research, as if there were no several dozen departments of economics and management at universities, moreover, as if there were no five public economic universities, as if there were no Polish Economic Society, Polish Economics Society, Institute of Economic Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences. In my opinion, an exchange of views, discussions, a multitude of views is necessary in order to describe the economic situation fairly. I'm going to say that at the university I'm involved with, the discussions about the pension system, for example, are extremely polarized, because Prof. Góra, who is the creator of this reform, works at the same university, and Prof. Leokadia Orzeziak, who is her total critic. Without such a scientific discussion, it is difficult to formulate objective opinions about the state of the economy without knowing all the views. We can draw such quotations from the justification and from the impact assessment of the regulation. The mission of the Institute will be the development of Polish research. So it's like they're not there yet. Yes? The proposals and recommendations from them can be used by both the state administration and economic operators to improve the competitiveness of the Polish economy. What else? In the impact assessment we have this record. The results of the Institute's activities will be translated directly I stress: directly to the condition and competitive position of the Polish economy and entrepreneurs. It looks as if after the entry into force of the Act there was an order for entrepreneurs to implement the research results of the Institute. The impact assessment also states that once the institute is established, prosperity will increase and the labour market will be stabilised. This is simply said in section 9 of the impact assessment of the regulation, the impact on the labour market. The bill aims to increase the stability of the growth of the Polish economy. The Institute, which has 26 people, is expected to increase the stability of the Polish economy. It looks as if there has been no economic research in Poland so far, as if there were no achievements in this area and as if no one has benefited from these achievements. The justification points to a super-strong multidisciplinary university of an economic nature, and yet in an institution that is being closed down, the number of "n" which is used in the categorisation of institutes... The Institute has a good category, category B, but only 26 people are listed here. Exactly 26,5 . And these people are to generate full economic knowledge about the Polish economy. I am talking about full knowledge, because the impact assessment states that the multidisciplinary nature of the problems that arise, their number and the thematic scope require the appointment of a specialised entity to carry out a continuous task for the administration. 26 people? It's impossible. Moreover, in the article. 4 is the provision that the activities resulting from the supervision of the Institute are carried out by the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. According to Art. The 8th Director of the Institute may be a person who has a Master's degree. I stress: Master's degree. By the way, this is not in line with the terms used in the Higher Education Act, where a master's degree or equivalent is referred to either the completion of a second degree or a single master's degree. There's no such thing as a master's degree. Come on. Art. 12 states that the Council of the Institute shall be composed of a representative of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Pretty narrow. It would seem that it would be better if it was to be a scientific institute to include someone from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 18 it is said that the Institute may carry out economic activities in carrying out tasks related to Article. 3. Then there's a few more sentences, and it's still written, especially by renting rooms and offices. Minister, these records show little evidence of the scientific nature of this institution. For me, it is a department in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. It may be needed for analysis, but it certainly will not be such a multidisciplinary think tank for government needs. One regret is that it is planned to liquidate an institute that celebrates 90 years of existence this year. It is an institute founded by Prof. Lipiński. Prof. Lipiński, apart from being a well-known professor of the Warsaw School of Economics before the war, was also the creator of the School of Central Planning and Statistics after the war and the rector of the City School of Economics, i.e. SGH, during the occupation. During the entire occupation Prof. Lipiński, or the creator of the liquidated institute, conducted secret teaching. In addition, he was the creator of the Workers' Defence Committee and the Social Self-Defense Committee of the KOR. Prof. Kaletsky was also an employee of this institute. This institute, which is to be wound up, has a well defined, not too broad but important, scope of interest, important for economic research, and this institute created is to be universal, which I think is unrealistic with the planned employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u466	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u467	Thank you very much. A joint meeting... [[Voice from the room: We can't hear.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] And now? [[Yes.]] The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending certain laws to reduce the social security contributions of natural persons performing business activities on a smaller scale will take place tomorrow at 8.30 in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-26-senat-64-3.u468	Thank you. I declare the hearing adjourned until 9 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 06]]
