ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u1	I open the 50th seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. Mr. Senators, please take your seats at the president's table. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fiftieth and fiftieth Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. High Senate, I inform you that on 12 January 2018, the Secretary of the Committee for European Affairs gave the Senate the position of the Government on the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: The Commission's Work Programme for 2018. It is included in print No 708. I sent these documents to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission on 13 February this year. She took note of the communication and the government's position on the matter and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one and point four of the draft agenda, although the committee's report on these matters has been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. I propose, Dear Senators, to change the order: the examination of the fourth point, i.e. Act amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed as an activity for the independent existence of the Polish State and consider it as the last item on the draft agenda; and consider point seven, i.e. second reading of the draft anti-food waste law and consider it as the penultimate point of the draft agenda presented. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers and consider it as point seven, i.e. after information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union; the Act on amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and considering it as item 8 of the agenda; and changes in the membership of Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposals. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I can't see, I can't hear. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 50th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I inform you that to consider the point concerning information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2017 we will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. In addition, I inform you that on March 8th, at 12.00 in the Senate, the exhibition will open always faithful to Poland devoted to the history of the Polish Union in Germany. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I would like to inform you that after the reports of the relevant Senate committees, the agenda of the current Senate meeting can be supplemented by: a point on the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act; and a point on draft resolutions on the 50th anniversary of March 1968. In addition, when the Sejm has adopted and reports have been prepared by the relevant Senate committees, the agenda may also be supplemented by the following items: the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws and the Law on the stripping of military degrees of persons and soldiers of reserve, who in the years 1943 and 1990 have embezzled the Polish cause of the state. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for the Homeless, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other Acts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 730 and the report of the committee In print No 730 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the two Joint Committees on the Law amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Homes for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Resources of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code and some other Acts. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversation quiet. Please, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. This proposal is a government proposal. It is another law which aims to increase housing resources, to obtain these housing resources effectively, with the help of state support. Within 6 years, the State will support this project, the implementation of this law, with the amount of PLN 5 billion. The law deals with housing support, support mainly for those with the lowest income, i.e. for the poorer part of society. The aim of the Act is to improve the availability of housing by amending the rules for the implementation of the support programmes of the Bank's National Housing Fund aimed at the least prosperous, including new forms of support for municipalities in the development of social housing; to amend the rules for financing and applying for non-refundable support from the Dowage Fund, which is intended to increase the efficiency of the payment of State budget expenditure while ensuring that all socially, technically and financially justified investment projects are financed; to ensure an adequate housing standard for premises created in the context of social housing; to introduce solutions that will enable municipalities to effectively manage existing housing resources, including the management of rents with the lowest rents to persons and families requiring special housing aid. The Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housings, Protected Housings, Accommodation Rooms and Homes amends the following: adapts the Title of the Act to the changes proposed therein; amends the procedures for the transfer of budgetary resources to finance the programme; eliminates the obligation to release the social housing stock. After the introduction of this law, the concept of social housing will not be applied and social contracts will be introduced. To the communal apartments, whose tenants... If these people have low financial resources, they will be able to obtain funding from the municipalities, but they will not need to be transferred to the so-called. social housing. So that the institution of housing, social housing as such will disappear and social rent will be introduced. Further: clarifies the provisions on the possibility of applying for financial support for the implementation of an undertaking consisting in the renovation or reconstruction of premises which, due to the poor technical condition, have been excluded from use. So that you gain apartments that are currently excluded from use. You will provide support to get such an apartment and simply allocate it to a communal apartment. Next: it will enable the municipality to carry out an undertaking to buy a share in the residential building. If the municipalities decide to buy shares or municipal housing... The state proposes support of 5 billion in six years: half a billion PLN in the first year and second year, and then one billion in the following years. In total, this support will amount to PLN 5 billion. In addition, the Act introduces a programme of support for projects involving the creation of temporary premises, extends the catalogue of projects covered by financial support to projects consisting in the renovation or reconstruction of existing accommodation facilities and shelters for homeless people and projects which will result in the establishment of heating rooms and extends to municipal companies groups of entities with which the municipality will be able to cooperate within the framework of investments carried out under the Financial Support Act. It also introduces changes in the level of financial support, abolishes the ban on combining support under the programme from European Union funds. It shall modify the rules for the award and settlement of projects, taking into account the conditions for the implementation of projects by public benefit organisations. The Act amends the rules for the disposal and reassignment of the resource created under the provisions of the Financial Support Act. It introduces a new financial instrument to support municipalities and inter-communal relationships to cover part of the costs of a project carried out by another entity aimed at creating housing for lower-income households. The law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code introduces the following amendments. It amends the definition of the housing stock of the municipality and the public housing stock. It introduces the definition of a nearby locality and the cost of housing, a social housing institution, which means giving up the concept of social housing, as I have already mentioned, and the need to extricate these premises from the housing estate of the municipality. It sets out clearly the type of charges whose arrears may give rise to the termination of the legal relationship. The Act allows the termination of the lease contract when the tenant has a legal title to another premises not only in the same village but also in a nearby village. Up until now, the communal apartment could have families that could have any other apartments, could have, for example. house both in the village where they live and in the nearby village. At the moment, it will be impossible to do so, just because such people will not have the right to occupy such a communal apartment, and even more so with a social payment. The Act also allows the termination of the lease contract while offering a replacement in a situation where the occupied accommodation has a disproportionately large area in relation to the number of persons living in it. And here's the proposal that just when there's too much space, the municipality could increase the rent to 8%. the restoration value, but she could also offer to replace the apartment, this larger apartment with a smaller apartment, a smaller apartment. The Act also introduces an obligation to make declarations on the amount of household income, the statement on the assets and, at the request of the municipality, a declaration of non-legal title to another premises located in the same or nearby village. And this statement... There is a proposal, i.e. the bill has already been passed in the Seym, so that it is a proposal for us to approve it, too. To make such declarations at the call of the municipality every 2,5 years. If someone does not make such a statement, the municipality will simply be able to raise the rent, as I said, to 8%. But the thing is, to... If there is a rent increase of up to 4%, this may be an increase without justification, while if there is an increase of up to 8% the replacement value must be justified. The tenant may appeal to the court against this decision, and may simply, say, challenge this increase, but the municipality has no right to introduce a higher rent than a maximum of 8%. Maybe I can tell you that there was a fairly lively discussion that lasted about two hours. Following the discussion, amendments were accepted. These are 6 legislative amendments that are ordering and clarifying, and there are 3 more amendments that I have tabled. 2 amendments are clarification amendments and 1 amendment is a substantive amendment. This substantive amendment aims to protect tenants living in municipal premises on the date of the entry into force of the Act from the risk of termination of their lease agreement due to too much residence and, as I said before, offering to rent smaller premises. In the Seym version, these regulations included all tenants who live in too large a place. And in this proposal, the change will result in the municipality being able to terminate the lease agreement and propose the lease of a smaller place in return, but these provisions will apply only to lease contracts concluded after the date of entry into force of the law and will not apply to persons who previously lived in a given premises. Those aged 75 will be excluded from the act. They won't have to leave the apartment and change places. According to what the Minister said, this bill will bring about 170 thousand apartments. There was a discussion, and Senator Frost wanted to clarify something. Social housing is being sold, and now these apartments are kind of gone. Things are changing. The Minister explained that which apartments are for sale is decided by the municipality. And if that's what they're called. social housing or community housing... That doesn't change the situation at all. Senator Florek asked at the committee's meeting if there were opinions of the government and the local government. The answer was positive. Such opinions were and were positive opinions. Opinions were also presented by institutions such as the Committee for the Defence of the Rights of Locators, the Commission for Social Dialogue from the Warsaw Town Hall and the Association of Residents of the City Housing Experiment. If there are any questions about this, I'll answer, because now I don't want to prolong. If there are questions, I will simply say what the content of the discussion was. The Act is to enter into force on 1 May 2018 with the exception of Article. Point 1 (15), as regards Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 16 and 19 shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. Changes concerning the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code, the Act on Civil Procedure, the Act on Accommodation of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the Act on Housing Supplements will enter into force 12 months after the date of publication of this Act. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Marshal Borowski. There you go. Is there anyone else? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Good. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, the Committee for the Defence of the Rights of Tenants, one of the entities operating in Warsaw, has tabled several amendments, which he has sent to many senators. I am not a member of the committee, so I would like to know whether any of these amendments have been taken into account. If so, which and if not, then why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's category A of the premises. It's called a temporary room. Will this institution die with the entry into force of the law? How will temporary problems be solved, when the social establishment is not entitled or not yet prepared, and there is a need, even as in Poznań, to find a place for these inhabitants immediately?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u8	Mr. Senator! First of all, you said that there would be an increase in subsidies for those projects that the municipality would undertake to acquire new premises, but you didn't reveal this, as long as it was improving. We remember that we've doubled that. So I'm asking you how much this funding will be. Secondly, I would like to know whether the current tenants, all present tenants under the Art. Point 16 will be obliged to sign contracts again, new lease contracts and will have to make these declarations, or only new leases offered.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u9	Thank you very much. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And that's later in the second round. [[Complementive. It's my fault, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go, Senator, supplemental question. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski...]] Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Senator Jan Rulewski still completes his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u10	It's about what you said, so to speak, about a noble institution, about not moving people who are 75 years old to other places. I don't think there's any doubt about that. However, there is a question of how to finance possible rents and rents, since they are not covered by the Housing Supplements Act, because income and, on the other hand, they keep large rooms, which cost.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u11	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u12	Thank you very much. Let me start with the question you asked Senator Borowski about the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, which proposed some amendments. Yes, there were indeed proposals from the Tenant Protection Committee. His representatives suggested that this maximum bet should not be 8%, but 4%. They also suggested that this age, the age limit, after reaching which this law no longer applies to these people, should not be 75 years old, but that this age should be equal to the retirement age, and if someone reaches the retirement age, it can no longer be... It's just that this bill doesn't apply to it, and it won't be possible for example. forced to replace a larger place that he doesn't have, to a smaller place. The Minister said in this way that this law mainly concerns people, well, about smaller resources, that the state simply protects the poorest and the weakest. Those with more resources should rent... These 8% This is the maximum amount. Municipalities can reduce this size, reduce rent growth, do not need to apply 8% but this is the maximum size, the limit to which the municipalities can increase, with justification, of course. In any event, the proposals of the Committee on the Defence of the Rights of Tenants have not been upheld, no one has proposed the adoption of these proposals of amendments, and they have therefore not been adopted by the committee. Senator Rulewski asked about the temporary rooms. It wasn't specifically said about it, maybe the Minister would say something more. There's an institution like a place to stay, but it's a different matter, it's more for the homeless. In every such subject in this spirit has not been discussed. There was nothing at all said about temporary quarters. Now, about Senator Augustine's question, about the increase in subsidies... As regards State subsidies at all, they concern the purchase by the municipalities of... In the event that the municipalities buy out municipal premises or refurbished uninhabitable premises, as I said, the State's contribution will amount to PLN 5 billion within 6 years. And when it comes to paying tenants more to... [[Eviction buyout...]] I don't understand. [[You said... may I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u14	You said these funds would be used to buy them out, right? [[Yes, to be bought by the municipalities.]] In situations like this... [[It'll only be for the communes.]] ...when there's an eviction, is it an obligation for the municipality to provide an apartment? Is that how it is today?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u15	As far as I know, it's an obligation. But this is mostly about getting extra apartments. And you just pay the municipalities extra so they can buy out communal apartments or renovate these apartments so they can just get new communal apartments. And then whether they're social or communal, it's already a question of people's income. Because, as I said, there will be a new institution, there will be a social lease institution, and there will be no so-called. social housing. So much for this case. And then... That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u16	Question... [[Oh, that's good. Thank you.]] [[Thank you.]] Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u17	Thank you. Mr. Senator, could you point out which article of this bill will protect... or help a tenant living in a building that's either for sale or for return, so that such a resident will be transferred by competent authorities to another social establishment that they have him refurbished at his own expense? Which articles and paragraphs protect such a tenant? And is it right for this tenant to have to renovate the premises at his own expense, even though he had done so before, in the previous place? If the senator had a problem with his answer, 'Cause I can't just find it in this law, 'and I'm reporting right away that this question will also be addressed to a government representative.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u18	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u19	Thank you. Senator, this was not at the joint committee meeting. And here, you know, I'm just... There are a lot of these rules, and right now I can't find it so quickly. Later, we can consider and examine all these provisions. 'Cause there's a lot of it in here. Maybe the minister who's been prosecuting this bill for a long time, you'll answer. So that I right now... The committee meeting was late last night, and I'm not able to pinpoint this article so quickly right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u20	Are there any more questions? Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development... Would the Minister like to speak? Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law which the Sejm has adopted and which is the subject of the High House's deliberations has been prepared for quite a long time in the previous Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, is already under the responsibility of the Ministry of Investment and Development. There was a long consultation which started practically in 2016. Several dozens of organizations have consulted this project. The Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Self-Government has spoken positively. There is a expectation from local governments and of course also the organisation of the protection of tenants, as soon as possible the entry into force of this law. But since the Act introduces a number of new instruments in terms of the rules for the management of municipal premises, we introduce a long period of time or the Sejm introduced a long period of vacathio legis, i.e. 12 months from the date of entry into force of this law. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, So there's plenty of time for both local governments and tenants to get a good look at the bill. Perhaps in the meantime, some changes will be needed. Of course, it is a long time, so also the environment and legal, and economic, and financial can change. Today we assume that a change in the way of funding and a significant increase in the amount of funds allocated to such a widely understood municipal construction will result in the construction of about 170 000 apartments. This is more or less how the shortcomings in municipal construction are diagnosed. About 170 thousand apartments are missing in Poland. There's so many people waiting in line for these apartments. These are people who can't afford to rent a place on the market who can't afford to buy a place or borrow a loan, so they have to get a joint. At the moment, there is already one concept of a municipal place as a resource. Yes? Because the municipality was obliged to create 2 resources the social and municipal resources. In social resources there were often low-standard premises. At the moment, there is no longer the possibility of building low-standard apartments, but, of course, contracts that concern the old stock will be valid until the end of their validity. The social agreement, the social lease agreement that we are introducing, may apply to those premises of a lower standard, but we are also giving the municipalities the resources to rebuild these premises, to increase their standard. We also assume that their number should ultimately decrease, that fewer and fewer people will have to reach for these social places. Because people who apply for a place like this have virtually no income or have a very low income. As far as financial instruments and support instruments are concerned, we are maintaining the level of support so far, but we are introducing 2 new instruments. One is the increase in the aid for municipalities in the purchase of old works flats. This is a big problem in Poland. We don't know the exact number because no one's ever done this kind of research, and here the data is different. From dozens to tens of thousands of apartments. I think there are several thousand such apartments in Poland that were sold together with tenants. There is the same problem that occurs in Warsaw. Someone bought a flat with tenants and then started cleaning. In respect of tenants The renovations of these apartments made life difficult for these tenants. We want the municipalities to get 50%. aid for the purchase of such apartments. They have to buy them on the commercial market, pay the landlord the agreed price. But we know that there are, especially in Silesia, local governments who want to buy such apartments. Then they will enter the municipal stock and the tenants will have a permanent and predictable owner in the form of a commune. The municipality can sell these apartments on general terms. We're eliminating the sales ban. If there was a State aid, the municipalities could not sell such premises for at least five years. Now we're eliminating this ban. The municipality will be able to sell such premises immediately after their acquisition on the basis of the rules in force in the municipality concerned, except that the concession may not be less than 50% Because we're paying 50% more. The municipality shouldn't be making money on that kind of sale. What relief he will receive, it is already within the competence of the municipality. We are also introducing a new support instrument, i.e. It's a 20-percent grant. The municipality receives non-refundable 20% of the housing project. It can apply a public-private partnership here, and we assume that it will be so, whether it is with a completely independent private entity, whether it is with its own company in the form of TBS or a municipal company. The only limit we're introducing is that the rent in these premises can't be higher than 4%. the replacement value. This is a public housing economy, and in order for there to be no illegal aid, it must be a reduction in rent. So that here is simply the commission of the municipality to a private investor. He's gonna build it for the commune, the municipality's gonna give him that 20%. or later the municipality can have these 20% the area in connection with this subsidy, of course on the basis set by the municipality, but we are introducing this maximum rent in the form of 4% the replacement value of the premises, of course, on a yearly basis. We also increase the funding and the possibility of funding. If the municipality carries out the project under the revitalisation programme, the funding may be increased by 5%. Also, if the municipality is implementing the program.For life, it is an additional 5%, e.g. when it comes to places for families with multiple children, for people with disabilities, for families with children with disabilities... If such a scheme is implemented in the municipality, it will also be possible to obtain an additional 5% financing. We're eliminating the possibility of combining funding... That is, if there is European funding and state funding, from the budget, it is an opportunity to combine this funding with one project, but it cannot overlap, it cannot be intended for the same. But if we're building some kind of infrastructure, now we can combine this funding, it couldn't have happened before. We are also significantly increasing the resources, and the rapporteur spoke of this. In recent years, in 2013, 2014, 2015, it was about 50 million, in 2016 it was probably 100 million, in 2017 The funds are secured as a reserve in the State budget for the funding of the Payment Fund, which is the responsibility of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Bank will finance support for municipal construction We are now introducing this new concept. We are also putting in place the financing of renovations. So far the municipalities have only been able to build new communal or social premises, well, at the moment they are only communal. From now on, the municipalities will also be able to renovate, refurbished the premises, i.e. those existing social premises, which often have a reduced standard... From now on, the municipality will have the means to rebuild these premises in the future and bring them to a technical state that is in line with the requirements for municipal premises. These agreements, which are so far, will remain in force until the end, and the amendment of the rules that may be considered unfavourable to the tenants... We must remember that municipal housing is primarily intended for those who are waiting and for those who have low income. We know that life brings different solutions, sometimes... First, the municipality decides... Maybe I can tell you what kind of mechanism is in place. The municipality determines the locality here has its own competence. The level of income that entitles you to receive a municipal establishment or, as so far, a social establishment and now to conclude a social lease agreement. If anybody gets a place like this, then... In the current state of law, the municipality had no possibility to verify the income, property status of such a person and persons who, and often so, suddenly become wealthy, receive or buy housing, build these apartments, receive in succession... The municipality did not have the opportunity to get rid of such persons, in any way, or to give them contracts. That's why wealthy people live It's a fact that every municipality will confirm it. In municipal resources, the poor, the poor, who are waiting for such premises, wait in queue for many years. We have either the last or one of the last places in Europe as regards the waiting period for communal housing. We want to make it better. The new contracts will already allow for verification of the income and assets of the person who uses municipal resources. Except, as I say, there's a long investigation period here. The senators proposed in an amendment, adopted by the committee, on the economy of over-normative tenants' premises. In other words, one person is more than 50 m2 and one person is more than 50 m2 and the next person is 25 m2 is a sejm project. In order to be able to terminate such contracts with a period of six months' notice and transfer them to smaller resources, of course, with all the requirements that such persons have if they normally apply for a municipal lease. People over the age of seventy-five were excluded They must not be allowed to terminate contracts. They must be allowed to do so. I will answer here to Senator Rulewski: such people can also get a smaller apartment, but there must be their agreement, they cannot terminate the agreement. The Act imposes a six-month notice period which the municipality may extend. So people over the age of seventy-five must agree to replace their premises. There's actually a problem right now... Well, people who live in a non-normative area can't get housing allowances. In such a situation it will be possible, also for those over the age of seventy-five, to make such a change. Well... Oh, a very important change is practically eliminating or giving up the possibility of eviction on the pavement. This eviction is now possible. If the municipality fails to provide a social establishment or temporary accommodation within 6 months after the eviction, the bailiff may evict the person, for example. I'm gonna go to the bed and breakfast. Well, it's mostly a place to stay. Now the municipality will be required to deliver a replacement room. Those spaces that have been used here to date will continue to function, and the municipalities will also be given the means to build new replacement rooms. Indeed, the problem is that the municipalities do not have such premises, and they should have them at their disposal, because if someone loses their rights to the municipal premises... Well, we don't want to throw these people out on the street, the commune has to provide them with a replacement room. So that as part of the payments we expand, we increase these amounts significantly. As I said, four years ago it was 50 million PLN, and from next year it will be at the disposal of local governments 500 million PLN, which means it will be huge funds, this is a huge increase. So that the municipalities will have to build replacement rooms, temporary spaces, because that's what they're formally called. Such a room must be suitable for a person's presence, but it does not have to meet all standards, i.e. There could be a shared kitchen, there could be a shared toilet. One room for common residence must be... Well, these are the rooms where people can live, that doesn't mean throwing them out, but of course there are some inconveniences. But this isn't a place to stay or a house for the homeless, it's a place to live, although, as I say, there are some inconveniences. The standard of these apartments, which standards will meet these temporary spaces, will already be determined by the municipalities. I think I may have raised all the problems I've heard about, but I'd be happy to answer questions as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u22	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? The first question will be asked by Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I strongly support this bill. She, on the one hand, as the Minister said, provides the local authorities with the resources they need to build community housing. And it's very important. On the other hand, it introduces such solutions that this market will be a very mobile market. The problem is that these good solutions are to enter into force late, from what the Minister says and what the bill says. It is very long vacathio legis, extremely long, actually to any law such in this term of office we have not applied. What is the reason why we will wait so long for good solutions and their implementation? I'm asking because such an explanation that local governments need to learn how to apply the law... Well, local governments could do it in a much shorter period. And these are very important regulations. That's the first line. Two. You were talking about the eviction problem, about the fact that eviction on the pavement would not be possible. Isn't that, in the absence of apartments, the lack of housing for those who will be evicted, gonna block the eviction? And yet we need to see eviction not only in the context of this person, but also sometimes waiting for families of many children to live. Isn't there... But should we not go further and be more firm here? The point is that we can have this resource better. Well, I will argue here with Senator Rulewski, who stressed that we are all in favour of the fact that older people cannot be moved from their apartment to a smaller apartment. This is a problem because if someone has a very large apartment, e.g. 80-metre-long, overnormative, and waiting for a family to live with children, it turns out that we are protecting this elderly, lonely person, who de facto does not fully enjoy this apartment, and families with children are waiting many years. Well, it doesn't seem fair. In short, shouldn't the law be more firm, and shouldn't the entry into force of these rules be earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u24	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u25	High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The decision to enter into force of these new solutions was taken by the Sejm. The senators of the committee have proposed that these new regulations concerning non-normative premises enter into force... They proposed that they enter into force only later on and apply only to new contracts. Well, that's an independent decision of the High Chambers of Parliament. The government has written it slightly differently in its submission, but at the moment the legal situation is that the Sejm has adopted such a solution, and the committee has adopted another one to smooth it down. That's the argument. Indeed, there were a lot of comments, reservations and concerns on the part of the tenant circles, as was also an example of the last speech by a representative of the Committee for the Defence of the Rights of the Tenants, of which one of the senators spoke. At times, whether these concerns are mainly due to a lack of understanding of the rules. When we were at the stage of the Sejm's work they introduced e.g. reducing the increase to 8%, this was taken as a negative solution, and that is what is beneficial, because before there was such an upper limit and the municipality could increase the rent in any way, even above the market value. In Poland, the average is about... It was accepted, so said the Members, that 8% That's about the national average. Well, in Warsaw it's going to be more, the market rent is about 10%. the replacement value. So that the municipality can only raise it to 8%. However, it must be borne in mind that any change to the terms of the contract requires termination of the contract and has a full set of rights under civil or administrative law, including the right to appeal against such decisions. If the decision of the municipality is not justified, if the increase is not justified, the tenant shall have the right to appeal to the court and the court shall determine whether the increase is actually justified or not above the market value. As for those who are waiting for the apartment that the senator was talking about, that is actually a big problem. It is assumed that 170 000 apartments are missing; if we assume that there will be only 3 people for one apartment, there will be more than half a million people, often with small children. But, like I said, it's not for me to judge the issue of the law's entry into force. This is an independent decision of both the first and second chambers of parliament. As regards the issue of eviction on the pavement, the point is that it can cause some perturbation in the market and that people will be waiting, I would like to remind you that the law only applies to municipal construction. So where the tenant is outside the municipal building, under the rules of the Civil Code, there are general rules and there is the possibility of eviction on the pavement. Yeah, but there's different rules in there. We assume that this is about people who have income and are able to provide themselves with another place, e.g. Rent a smaller one. These poor people who need to be helped live in municipal buildings; here the state must provide the greatest possible protection. And that's what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u26	You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, I'm having the same doubts as Senator Szymanski. I also believe that the bill is... It seems that she is good, that she contains really good solutions, but the doubts that Senator Szymański raised are close to me, too. I feel the same way about this. I would therefore like to ask what were these government proposals concerning the date of entry into force of the law. Well, you guys in the government thought about it, analyzed it, counted it. Right? It seems that the starting point, the reference point in any such discussion, should be the government proposal. Such a discussion should also take place. The second question concerns these temporary apartments. Aren't you afraid, Minister, that these apartments could also become social housing at some point? Just people evicted into these social housing, apartments with a smaller standard in which there will be a room plus, let's say, other facilities common to the tenants of the other apartments... Well, just some of the tenants who will be accommodated there will consider it their destination. These social housing will fill up and probably won't be abandoned. The next question concerns the level of support for local authorities in the construction of these municipal apartments. The amounts you're talking about are huge, because there's 500 million zlotys planned here in two years... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Next year, next year.]] Next year, even next year. So my question is, what's the percentage? If the municipality starts a new investment or renovation of these existing municipal apartments, what percentage of the grant can it count on? And one last question. I'm sorry to talk so much, but I hope I'm being brief. Well, briefly in the sense that these questions are short and specific, without comment. The question is about the situation I've already mentioned. Because the law gives the possibility to evict tenants or to terminate agreements on municipal housing, if people living in these apartments achieve income above some level. How will this be done in practice? Will this amount which determines the level of wealth of inhabitants of these communal apartments be reviewed annually? Is this level of wealth determined when a citizen loses his right to such an apartment? How in practice the municipality will have to proceed to terminate the agreement and evict this man whose wealth has increased to such an extent that he can't afford it. Well, it's not known how much he no longer has the right to this apartment? And does that mean that the municipality will be able to evict it, for example. to these temporary apartments, knowing that he has such a large income? How will this be done in practice, step by step? Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u28	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u29	Thank you very much. Senator, the government's proposals were intended to ensure that these new rules on the economy of municipal premises enter into force as soon as possible. Well, we wanted them to come into force 12 months after the adoption of... I'll check it out again. Yes, after 12 months they would have come into force. We wanted these new rules to be in force by then. As far as temporary spaces are concerned, we do not change anything in this respect. The rules that are in force so far remain the same. The temporary space is neither a social establishment nor a residential establishment. It's just... [[But we're shutting down social housing. Right?]] But that has nothing to do with it. We don't take out social housing, we just take out social resources in the commune. In place of such a resource, the municipality had to create one social resource and another municipal resource, and now there is one municipal resource. Someone who's been losing money 'Cause there are people like that. At that time, he was entitled to a social establishment, and now the same person would be entitled to a social contract. We're trying to get a tenant living in one place to pay three rents. We assume the basics are this municipal rent. Yes? The tenant gets a communal place, has income that entitles him to receive such a place, but life brings different situations. Suppose someone lost their income. He's entitled to a social contract, still at the same place. According to the old regulations, you had to evict such a person into a social establishment. You should've evicted her to a social club. Sometimes it was that this communal place was destroyed by this person or was devastated, after all there were such situations. It was devastated and had to be moved to another social establishment... i.e. Not to another, but to a social place and this person started to devastate e.g. a new social place, because these new social places often didn't give way to communal premises. But of course these are exceptions. These are exceptions and absolutely don't take this as a motivation for our actions. Our motivation is, first of all, that we do not have to evict such a person at all. Lost her income? He still lives in the same place, gets a social contract. And the opposite: the same person Her income increased significantly, she got a flat in decline or increased her income and bought herself an apartment or built a house. The municipality then has the right to apply the rent increase by termination of the contract. And there's an algorithm, we've just introduced... It was the Sejm who introduced the algorithm so that... there could be situations where, in the event of an increase in income, this increase in income would be eaten by a rent increase. The algorithm that has been proposed prevents this from happening. For single-person households, a factor of 1.2 was introduced so that there would not be such a situation that someone would grow in income and pay as if on the basis of a gold-for-dollar basis: zloty of income more The rent's more than a dollar. First of all, we always count on a person, so if there are 2 people, then this income will be double, it will not be 1 thousand PLN more, only 2 thousand PLN more. So, there's definitely no such person as... In the case of single-person farms, this could indeed be the case and Members have rightly noted this, this factor 1.2 has been introduced and there is no situation that we are increasing income and these increases in income are eaten by the increase in rent. On the other hand, the original assumptions were even to evict such individuals. Well, someone rich lives in a communal apartment, and as Senator Szymański said, many families or people with disabilities are waiting in line and can't get an apartment. Well, the Sejm has determined that in this respect it is to be... No, before we have changed our position as a government, so that only those rent agreements can be made. These people don't have to leave these rooms, they're just gonna pay a higher price. If someone wants to pay the stakes, let's say, almost market in a communal place, they'll be able to live there, and if they decide that they can rent a place on the free market for the same money, they'll leave the place. We're assuming there's going to be situations like this, too, that we're gonna start releasing these premises. [[So you can't evict?]] You can't evict, it's just gonna be a rent increase. [[He made $1,000 a month, then became president of the company...]] Yes, sir. [[...the Treasure of the State...]] And he's gonna pay the market rent. [[...makes a lot more money and he can still live and he can't be evicted.]] You can't evict, but you'll have to pay the market rent. [[Almost market.]] No, 8% It's the max... Yeah, almost market. Well, that's the presentation... [[Well, it's not gonna change much.]] What do you mean? These rents are gonna increase a lot. They're gonna grow a lot. After all, now you can say that the rent at the municipal premises is 1/3, 1/4, 1/10 in some cases market rent. Well, a social worker is even... well, let's say, 20 gr. In Warsaw, let's say, the market rent amounts to PLN 50, the social rent is probably PLN 1.20, and the municipal one is PLN 7 or PLN 8. So that there are big differences between the municipal rent, if we call it that, and the market rent, because in some municipalities it's going to be eight, in some seven... Well, we'll reach the level of the market rent. Well, it's some kind of mechanism of influence, because the municipality has higher income from this and this revenue will be able to use to build more apartments. Perhaps in time, if this problem is largely resolved, it will be possible to introduce such a solution that these people can be evicted. Today we think that the Sejm took it well too. It's still because of the deficit, but also some habits that have been around for years, and not to make a revolution... Well, we want to introduce it gradually. Municipalities also need to learn how to verify these revenues, how to verify their assets After all, it can happen that very wealthy people sometimes have income... I mean. they may have less income, but because of their wealth they are very wealthy - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[So you can't evict?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, on principle... [[But how will it be verified? That's what I asked because I just...]] Can I... [[Yes, please, please.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. ...on the basis of the Housing Supplements Act. The Housing Supplements Act has been in operation for a long time, and the municipalities, as we believe, are able to deal with these issues, so they should also apply this verification here on the same basis. There is a call, so no more than every 2.5 years the municipality will commit its new tenants, in cases where there are new contracts, to make a statement on the assets and income. If such a person lodges it, it will either remain in the existing state, or the rent may be increased. If anybody loses their income, he's gonna be the one who's gonna make it to the commune... There is no doubt that he will take care of his own interests and that he will apply for a reduction in the rent, which is the transition to a social lease. In turn, the rent increase... Well, here, of course, there's a notice and a whole defense mechanism for the tenant against an unjustified increase. Here support is largely maintained on the basis of the existing rules, and these two new ones are coming, i.e. increasing the aid for the buy-out of works and introducing a new grant, a 20% non-refundable subsidy for the municipality in the case of a public-private project. But we also increase, as I said, by 5% Additional payment... This is the range from 20 to 55%, 55% will be, for example. in the case of accommodation or housing for homeless people, and in the case of municipal premises it will be 30%. So there's an increase of 5%. additional aid if there is a revitalization or a programme of life. These subsidies have worked well so far, in the last 2 years we have financed several thousand apartments in local governments and I think it is growing. Well, there's more money, so there's more funding. I think that next year this amount of 500 million should result in a significant increase in the number of these apartments, and ultimately, as I said, And I think there's a chance of that. By 2025, this problem of municipal housing will be largely eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u30	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u31	I think Senator Kleina meant the room. Which I asked, too, but the Senator rapporteur was unable to answer. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. about replacement rooms which, as you know, are for non-housing persons. Such people are e.g. victims of various kinds of disasters that have lost their homes, but such people are also homeless, as well as those who have cared for their homes in a careless manner. They sold them etc., etc. The question was therefore whether this institution was dying, which would also be a kind of whip, discipline of the insubordinates. The second question is, sir, Minister, about the problem of the commune's liabilities to all tenants of the premises for which the municipality does not have a replacement place and who have terminated the housing agreements for example. the increase in rent, so the municipality, without offering another place, must pay this increase. And the third, most important. Couldn't the state, as a ministry, delude itself here or obtain a solution to a certain social problem from which all news is now beginning, it's not known why I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. Homelessness I understand as a kind of freedom, but only where it does not violate social principles And there's a legal category. I'm sure she's being violated where the homeless are. Unfortunately, in a large part they sold their apartments for vodka etc. or even they were expelled from them. They occupy stations, etc. These are homeless people who, contrary to the constitutional principle of state law, even decide to lose their lives, while the state is obliged to protect this life. In other words, I'm going to make sure, at the same time, that the wealth of housing that will rise in 2, 3 years... Would it not be possible, by law, to eliminate the problem of homelessness, of course, leaving the right to homelessness for all those who do not violate the principles I have spoken of? To be honest, there are countries where there is no homelessness. This is due to the principle of solidarity, which is also written down here. The State is obliged to provide such persons with a roof over their heads, not only in the form of a room or a place of accommodation, As well as for other reasons. With us, these things determine the climate. Whoever decides to be homeless in Poland decides almost to commit suicide. Besides, it costs money. I'm not thinking about economic costs, I'm thinking about dozens of murders a year in this environment, sicknesses, and threats to public policy or otherwise. These are my three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u32	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the law deals with support for social housing, so it's called in the title. and the protection of the rights of tenants. Its subject is not the problem of homelessness as one which is rather the problem of the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs. We're partially solving this problem here. We are spending considerable money on building houses for the homeless, on building a heating room. So that due to the climate of the municipalities will be able to heat such... Someone who's under difficult conditions has the right to go in there and warm up. He doesn't have to be there. We know that sometimes being in such places is problematic for those people, because we have to meet the regulatory requirements with which they disagree. etc. So the heating room is a good solution here. This law increases funds, increases funding The municipalities will get up to 55% financing for the construction of such premises. And that's the only thing we can do as a Ministry of Infrastructure or as a Ministry of Development now. The problem of homelessness is, of course, much broader. In our ministry, we can't solve it, but we can see the problem. That's why it's a substantial increase in funding. The question is whether the municipalities will want to use it. The senator was talking about foster homes. Well, there's no... [[Rooms, because these aren't apartments.]] Are the rooms... Well, there's no definition, there's no such thing as apartments. We've got communal apartments, and we've got temporary rooms. Yes? It's a temporary room. [[Temporary, yes, yes.]] The institution of temporary premises operates in our legal trade, but in fact the municipalities neither adapted nor built such premises. We, first of all, introduce the possibility to finance the construction of such premises, second, significantly increase the resources. Like I said, in a few years... Well, that's a ten-fold increase in these resources. That's the point. only and only good will of the local government, will he want to benefit from these funds with such large funding as is foreseen there, amounting to up to 55%. It's a step in that direction. Indemnities to the owners. The law does not regulate this. This is an individual case. If the municipality fails to provide the appropriate premises, it must pay compensation to the owner if he has the right to do so. Thanks to the fact that there's such a significant increase in resources... Like I said, this year it's 210 million, next year it's 500 million, and in 3 years it's 1 billion. In March there will be a first hand, the bank will introduce... According to the old rules there are 2 editions of the selection of these conclusions: spring and autumn. From next year we will resign from these editions of the municipalities will be able to submit these applications to the bank throughout the year. So that you can reach for these measures, these big measures, because they are very big. We want the municipalities this year, so to speak, to learn this so that they can make full use of the funds available at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from next year. Like I said, over the last two years, several thousand of these apartments have been built. There's gonna be a lot more this year, and next year, I think... May the municipalities only be able to absorb these measures. As you know, there is a problem on the part of the municipalities regarding their own contribution. We can't finance all these...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u34	You're asking Senator Kopeć a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u35	Dear Minister, I have a question about TBS. Some senators were asked about their role in relation to these amendments. It is mainly about the Law of 26 October 1995 on State aid to promote housing. Whether TBS is restricted by this law in some direct or indirect way, e.g. in the event of revitalization? I mean, I don't think so, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister. It is known that TBS is a very important tool for municipalities in terms of companies. How will they function after this amendment? Will they be able to benefit from all the types of aid you provide?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The law does not regulate the issue of social housing companies, absolutely does not interfere in this, does not limit in any way, but gives the municipalities an additional instrument, we call it a grant. This 20% grant by the municipality can be used as a participation in TBS. Because in TBS we have a participation that was increased to a maximum of 30% last year. A maximum of 30% can be requested from the future tenant of the company. Some TBS bring in a dozen, some 20%. For each TBS, ownership policy is different. Most TBS are self-government, but they're also private. The municipality will be able to treat this instrument that it gets, the 20% contribution, as a participation e.g. in TBS. This is backup. TBS through the municipality. The municipality will receive a non-refundable grant and can use it, once again, as a participation in TBS, i.e. as a 20% grant for the project, with this limitation I was talking about, as regards the amount of rent, that is 4% the replacement value. So that there's a possibility. Maybe it's TBS or another municipal company or a private investor. If there is a private TBS, the municipality can also benefit from this possibility of funding, from this grant, which can be received from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. So that they are absolutely instruments that improve self-government policy, and there are no limits. [[Minister, I'd still like to ask you about the revitalization, because here...]] As I said, if the municipality is implementing a regeneration program, it is possible to add an additional 5% co-financing from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Then such funding is increased by 5%. There is no summing 5% of revitalization and 5% of revitalization. from the Lifetime Programme. Or one of the 5% Or the other one... Theoretically, it can be that TBS is implementing the program "For Life." By creating every single place that will be suitable for disabled people, for families with disabled children, we implement the program "For Life" and then the municipality gets an additional 5% financing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u37	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u38	I am not on the committee responsible, and it may have been discussed during the discussion of this programme, but I would like to ask the Minister to present his philosophy. How exactly does the government feel about this? What's the whole philosophy? What are we really trying to do? Which indicators are we aiming at, e.g. As for the number of apartments per 1,000 inhabitants? Do we have a purpose? Have we established certain levels that we want to reach? And I'd like you to put this in a broader context, too, in terms of living and living. How's it all looking? What is our goal when it comes to philosophy? Are people supposed to be able to afford housing, or are we going to increase the stock of social housing to catch up on this many years behind? I would like to ask you to take this very general approach, to present this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u40	Thank you. Thank you, Senator, for the question. Shortly speaking, the government's assumptions... As regards the housing programme included in the National Housing Programme, this is the medium-term perspective by 2030. We would like to get housing rates that correspond to the European average at that time. This simplest indicator is the number of apartments per 1,000 inhabitants. Right now, we do. Well, I'm sorry to say this. Last place in Europe in this area. You'd think it wasn't that bad, but it's terrible. This is, like, 375 apartments per 1,000 inhabitants. We would like to reach about 435 apartments, so that this is the number per thousand inhabitants. And, of course, it's not like we're just building development apartments or just community housing. In every segment of the market you need to increase the number of apartments built, and this is happening. Last year there was a record of the number of apartments built. For the first time in 10 years, we've crossed 160,000 apartments. Usually it was $140,000, we couldn't get to $150,000. Well, last year's record came up, and this year's record's probably gonna come up again, thanks to housing cooperatives starting to build housing. We have restored the financing of TBS and housing cooperatives from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego can finance housing cooperatives in the form of reverse financing. This is not non-refundable funding, it is feedback which is cheaper than market funding, so housing cooperatives are starting to benefit from it. TBS started their first... I think there'll be a lot more apartments built by TBS this year. We changed the law last year, which greatly improves the management of TBS premises. Some restrictions that were there I don't want to go into the details here anymore, they've been eliminated. No, there is development construction, there are cooperative flats, there is also the apartments +, carried out by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego on land, which already become the property of the National Property Resource. These are the land of the State Treasury, including the companies of the State Treasury. It's not like I'm gonna say it's a European ephemeral. The French are already carrying out such a program. There, too, housing is being built on the country's treasury, only that they are moving more towards socialism when it comes to these lands. We want to use these buildings for people who don't have as low income as they do for housing, but they don't make enough money to keep the apartment on the market. Well, studies show that the Polish housing market consists of about 3 groups, about 20% of which are people who need to receive state aid in the form of social, municipal and about 40% he's doing well on the market, that is, he's either renting an apartment on the market, or he's able to borrow a loan, or he's buying himself an apartment. And there's about 40% left. people who are just between. They don't have the credit and the ability to rent an apartment on the market, and they make way too much money to get a communal apartment. And that's a big problem too. Of course, because income is growing, there is an increasing number of those who have this credit ability, but we are also introducing the possibility of access to property. There is no need for debt, but there is the possibility of redemption. So that's the strategy we want to pursue. There are also other indicators, of course. Well, there's the matter of thickening. In this respect, we also have one of the last places in Europe. Waiting period for apartments One of the last places in Europe, the technical state of our apartments and premises And one of the worst in Europe. That's why we're running a thermomodernization program that's supposed to include single-family houses this year. We have PLN 180 million for this. This will also improve the quality of these apartments. They will be modernised, i.e. warmed up. It's not just vertical warming, it's wall warming. We must remember that we also need to warm horizontally. Old houses are often simply located directly on the ground. If someone has never examined it, he doesn't even know that the building is on the ground, and sometimes it's still unsubstituted or only partially planted. Well, there's no isolation, and the heat loss is huge. A similar problem applies to attics or roofs. If they're non-warming, then it's a chimney. We're warming up, and the heat's running up. So in this respect, we're running a lot of resources and an entire antismog program. At the same time, we will also improve the quality of these buildings and apartments, which are mushroomed. Well, this is unfortunately our problem. There have been great negligence in this regard for decades. We assume that by 2030 we will be able to achieve this European average in this respect. As I said, considerable funds for municipal construction, because first you have to help the least earners. Yes? By 2025, we want to solve this problem. The funds are provided, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has these funds. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u41	The senator wants to fill in the question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u42	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you one more question. It's very interesting what you said, but I'd like to ask you to present a philosophy. What are we trying to do? Do we strive for Poles to have their own money as a result of sufficient earnings and opportunities to take credit for the apartment so that young people can buy an apartment or go towards I'm asking because it's very expensive. multiannual programme Rather, further developing a social programme that involves maintaining this poverty when it comes to housing or even increasing it? I'd like you to take this into account, especially since the program is very expensive. As I understand it, by the end of your term of office, you spend a billion, and the rest, most of this programme is planned for the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u43	Senator! That's what I think is a responsible attitude. Well, you can't solve this problem within a year, two or even during your term of office. We have to... The programme has a view by 2030 and there is a chance that this problem will be resolved over this period and broadly so. We absolutely don't want to... We assume that the number of people using social or municipal housing will not increase. There is a rich society in a broad perspective, so that today's diagnosis of the missing 170,000... There will be no need to build any more, it should be enough to meet those needs that are today, we assume that they will not arrive, that there will be a need for people who cannot get social assistance, because their earnings are higher, do not fall within the criteria set by the municipality, so that is where the aid will have to be directed. Here are the housing allowances we're working on right now, so it's a matter of housing allowances, it's a question of energy supplements, which are basically... They're not just about the poorest ones, because the issue of heating concerns everyone, for example. encouraging people to change their way of heating often increases costs. We are also working on this, and we are wondering how this increase in costs can be compensated to encourage people to change their way of heating. If someone has an old furnace, a traditional cinderella in which they burn everything, then its heating costs are practically close to zero. Or he'll have to change the furnace... That's the first thing we bring in. Next thing you know, it's the fuel someone's gonna have to buy, fuel of the right standard. Here's the cost. We want to finance the conversion of the furnace, we also want to finance the increase in costs associated with the change of heat source. Thermomodernization must be combined with deep thermomodernization, which is not only warming, but also heat exchange. Yes? Because so what if I warm up the house if I continue to smoke in an uneconomical way in an old oven and have to consume a lot of energy. It's got to be one to the other. So that we absolutely, absolutely want Poles to be able to satisfy their own housing needs. We assume that more and more people will be able to buy apartments on the market, but there are always people who can't afford it, and so far there have been no programs for these people. For the first time in many years, we have proposed such programs. We are increasing the funding that I am talking about today, but also, as I said, we have restored feedback for TBS and housing cooperatives, and this is precisely for those middlemen, i.e. those who earn too much money to get a communal apartment, and at the same time they often cannot afford to rent on the market or obtain credit. Housing cooperatives are a good solution here, especially new cooperatives, because we assume that they will be created. This is a good solution, housing cooperatives are being built around the world. With us there is a very negative approach to this, from the previous system we have bad experience regarding housing cooperatives, but there are also TBS, which are developing well. Yes? There are communities and, of course, there is development construction, which in recent years, as I said, has been breaking records in terms of the number of apartments built. There's another one this year. It is absolutely not that we want to allocate funds only to the poorest. We want to support everyone. But the fact is that the state has a duty primarily to the poorest, whom it helps in the first place. Then he can help others. We do it at the same time. We support both, and the third, even the wealthiest. Banks are getting more and more... We, in order to protect Poles, are currently working on the issue of winding up open trust accounts, because among developers there are those who, so to speak, abuse these accounts, and there are irregularities. We want 100%. secure the interest of future buyers who buy a hole in the ground so that they have a 100% guarantee that a closed trust account will give them an apartment, a house or a refund of the funds they spent because the bank will ensure that their funds are not wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u44	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question specifically related to the bill. I'm gonna have a few more, but next. Firstly, Minister, I would ask the Minister to say specifically what the entry into force of the law that we are now investigating will change in the life of an ordinary tenant who occupies the so-called. Accommodation apartment, so it has adjustable rent, has an unlimited contract and is in some resource of some municipality, in Warsaw, in Łódź, in Płońska or anywhere else where such apartments are located. Secondly, what will change in the situation of a tenant who occupies an apartment of more than 80 m and pays the so-called. Free rent? There is a category of tenants who rent apartments from municipal resources. Thirdly, what will change in the situation of a tenant who takes up housing from a municipal resource, but pays a commercial rent? There are situations like this, too. And fourthly, what will change in the situation of a tenant who, from a private person on a commercial basis, rents any residential premises, whether for a temporary contract or an indefinite contract? Can you tell me exactly what will change in the case of these categories of tenants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u46	Please, Minister. Four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, nothing will change in our lease contracts. All agreements concluded are functioning on the basis of existing rules. We are changing the way we finance and introducing new instruments in terms of new agreements. In the case of old contracts and over-normative surfaces, the High House will decide today whether this will apply immediately or whether it will enter into force later as many other regulations. The Commission recommended that the transitional provision be amended and that those provisions should enter into force later. With regard to non-normative surfaces and so-called. commercial rental, that bill doesn't regulate it. This is a problem that operates in the field of municipal construction and results from the fact that local governments often broke the law. They broke the law and, on the basis of municipal leases, committed tenants to one thing that someone has already spoken of here, e.g. to renovate apartments at their own expense, which is absolutely against the law. The municipality has no right to burden anyone with renovating the apartment. The municipality has an obligation to deliver a place that is suitable for residence. If someone wants to upgrade it, they're entitled to it, but they should go into a place where they don't have to do anything, hang the curtains, put up the furniture and live. This guy doesn't have to do any repairs. He can paint his walls if he wants to have colorful or wallpaper, but he doesn't have to do any renovations or upgrades. It can be modernised with the consent of the owner. But basic renovation, which means restoring it to its original state... This is absolutely unacceptable. Practices that in Warsaw... The rapporteur spoke of the so-called "senator." Experiment. I can't remember what neighborhood... [[It's a divisive...]] Exactly. That's where the rents are commercial and... It's absolutely against the law, at first glance. This problem came up yesterday at the committee meeting and I haven't had a chance to check it out thoroughly yet. We have an agreement that we will see how it can be resolved, whether it can be resolved by legal instruments at all, or whether it requires individual disputes already on a civil basis between the tenant and the municipality. Because we don't change, we don't touch... There was also a question about private... The Act does not apply to any private rental, commercial rental. The law deals with social leases, i.e. municipal leases, under which there were social premises, and now we are talking about social leases. So we do not touch on those issues where there is any issue concerning commercial rates. Because, in our opinion, they were unlawfully introduced. If anyone agreed to this, the commune forced it, so it's hard for us now, so to speak, sovereignly, to regulate it. That's more like... We want to examine this subject thoroughly, but I would rather see the direction of individual disputes here. And above all, there should be decisions of the municipalities. Because it is the council of the municipalities that should solve this problem. I know that this was the case in Gdansk and in several other municipalities. There the problem was solved and the apartments were sold to tenants. In Warsaw, the municipality does not want to do this. So this is probably rather the problem of the commune and the decision of the council, which then has to be carried out by the president or the mayor. [[Voice from the room: I would like to ask a question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u48	Then we'll have to get in line, Senator. Now, Senator Florek, you're next.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a member of the committee, so I've already asked these questions at the committee meeting. But I'd like to get back to the subject of housing, as the Minister says, for low-income people. Because this algorithm that's going to be introduced is going to make some changes. And there were concerns about the tenants, especially about the various cases... Because stabilization is important to know that you're making money, that you're gonna live in... Stability is important in all of this. And there are various random cases, for example. someone in the family dies, the number of people changes, etc., etc. And here, of course, there are questions about whether this algorithm is correct or not. You explained, Minister, that there's this factor 1.2, that everything is fine. Of course, life will show you how this bill will come into force. And it's a good thing she's coming into force at the same time as the Senate proposed. But I would also like to ask, Minister, at the stage of the project, how you prepared this amendment of the law, you analyzed, because the municipal housing institution is well known and not only exists in Poland. What it looks like in other countries, or is it similar there. Because generally the municipal resource is a large and important resource and should not be run from it too much. I understand that when it comes to development and so on, here are the successes, we build. This is important. But we also have a community resource, which is also important. The question is therefore: has such an analysis been carried out concerning municipal housing in neighbouring countries? How's it look? Are they making changes on similar terms as the ones you are proposing today?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u51	The algorithm that... It's about the math, isn't it? I think we explained a lot to the residents' organizations yesterday. We explained that they're miscalculating because they're taking gross income. If we accept net income per person, then this threat was referred to That the increase in income will be eaten by the increase in rent No, it won't. Of course, there's an inconvenience with the rent rising. But it is certain that the person will continue to live in the premises. There is no fear that such a person will be evicted, that the certainty of residence will continue, the contracts will be concluded for an indefinite period. And as for the experience of other countries, here we have to say that such a large housing resource... Well, we're more of a European phenomenon here. Poland and the Czech Republic have the largest resource mentioned. In other countries, we are talking more about social housing, which is much less. Well, there is already a significant decrease in Poland, once there were more than 2 million municipal apartments, at the moment there are probably about 900 thousand of them. Well, compared to 14 million, it's not much either. But we still have a lot of municipal housing in Europe. The municipalities have already stopped this mass sale of municipal premises. It can be said that this resource, which was suitable for sale and for which they were willing, has been exhausted and at the moment the municipalities are setting themselves a certain resource, which is not subject to sale. And in turn, those low-standard locations usually don't want to be bought. So we're in some kind of stable state. Well, the idea is that someone who doesn't have a title, who loses a title in the form of income and wealth, should leave the resource in order to make room for others. That should be the rule. Since this is the only problem we're starting to solve, we're taking the first step in the form of rent increases. Perhaps someday, in the future, Parliament will decide that such people should leave the premises. But I think that the housing problem in Poland really has to be resolved in general. As long as we do not solve this problem, in the sense that it will be possible to rent an apartment of any standard on the market and different people will have access to such apartments, more wealthy to more exclusive, less affluent to less exclusive, the solution is that we should increase the rent rather than evict those people is right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u52	Thank you, Minister. High Senate, adjourned until 1:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 41 to 13 minutes 17]] I'm extending the recess until 1:30. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 17 to 13 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u53	We interrupt, ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda, because you have no Vice Minister, we are waiting for your Deputy Minister. We'll go back to that point after point two. We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the Social Assistance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 728 and the report of the Commission In print No 728 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act amending the Law on Social Assistance. The Commission examined this project on 13 February 2018. The law itself deals with homeless people, in particular those providing temporary shelter to homeless people and introduces an additional type of establishment: a shelter for homeless people with care services. This regulation offers the possibility to provide care services to homeless people. This applies to homeless people who, due to age, illness or disability, need partial assistance and care to meet the necessary needs of life, but do not require the services of bodies providing 24/7 care. That's the kind of person we have in shelters. Now this situation thanks to this law is regulated. The Act provides for an exception for homeless people who require 24/7 care for whom a decision has been made to refer them to a social assistance home 'Cause they're still there. It will be possible to refer such a person to the hostel introduced by the law while waiting for her to be placed in a social assistance home, but no longer than 4 months. It is important that people stay in shelters on their own, while those who require 24-hour care can stay there, but for a short period of time. In addition, the Act introduces an amendment concerning the register of establishments providing accommodation, specifying it as a register of places of temporary refuge. Such records will be kept by the competent voivods due to the location of the facilities. Finally: the law introduces rules on the qualification of persons employed in the provision of services in a homeless shelter, as well as in a homeless shelter with care services. The Act gives a delegation to the Minister responsible for social policy to introduce appropriate regulations to lay down standards for institutions providing care and assistance to homeless people. During the committee meeting, the law did not raise any major controversy among the members of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and was unanimously accepted. I therefore ask the High House to accept it without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u55	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski as the first to apply. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question: how will this technical transformation take place and give this kind of new organisational formula, but also a new formula in the field of services provided by institutions? Whether this network will change or be created on the basis of existing... maybe the senator would like to clarify this further.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u57	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u58	Dear Senator, at the moment we are actually based on a network of shelters, which are mostly run by NGOs and as such... We estimate that we have in Poland at the moment, perhaps the Minister will make it better for me. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Ooh 22,000 places for homeless people in shelters. NGOs run these shelters. In fact, this regulation will make it possible to clarify the situation of those staying there and the issue of appropriate qualifications. So we're not creating new places for homeless people, but we're just clarifying the conditions for these people to be in institutions. Some of these facilities will be able to receive such persons. In fact, they are already doing so to some extent, so there is a group of institutions that accept such persons, but we do not yet have such a deep legal sanction. From now on, such legal sanction will appear and these individuals will be able to take care of persons who, in some part, already require the provision of care services, or those who will stay in them for a few months until there is a place for them in a 24-hour care facility, because we stand in the position that a person who, due to age, disability should be in a 24-hour facility should be there, and should not be in a hugging or shelter for homeless people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u59	Senator Jackowski wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, will there be any means behind this for those leading actors? Because, as I understand it, the scope of the service and the provision itself to a homeless person is different than when there are some care procedures that require certain financial resources. What is the question of financing such new facilities, identifying their new function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u61	The institutions that provide help to homeless people in Poland are largely financed by the budgets of local governments, from budgets in the social assistance area. And that's not gonna change. If the municipality is to be guided to the hut by a person who will require more care from this hut or a shelter for homeless people, then there will be more funding, including care services. In local governments there are financial resources and as such they cover the cost of these services in accordance with the resolutions which these local authorities adopt. Of course, you have to remember. that shelters and accommodations for homeless people are co-financed by the government administration. Each year, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy allocates a pool of funds in a competitive manner, where these places, huts are subsidised and can improve the standard of services provided, can be renovated, funds can be allocated e.g. for meals or repairs. So that the situation here is not changing significantly, this law does not change that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u62	Mr. Senator Duda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, you mentioned in your report an exception, namely an exception to the principle of allowing, as I understand it, a homeless person who has a decision to put in a social security home, in a shelter for homeless people. Such a person sent to a social security home must benefit from care services. That's two of my questions. Is it a good place for a person qualified for a nursing home, after checking, as a rule in relation to health issues, to put in such a place and keep an eye on it and to bear responsibility for it? Plus, I'm not able to understand, although it may have been mentioned, it missed me at the committee meeting, where these four months came from. And if you can't find a place in a social worker's home in four months, then what? Is this person relocating from the shelter to the street or... What do you do then? Do you think that's going to take long enough? As you know, practice, and you're a bit of a practice, and not even a little... You know perfectly well that in this situation it may be burdensome and difficult to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u64	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u65	Thank you so much for that question. Mr Senator, Mr President, I do not recall the question being asked at the committee meeting about these four months. I believe it is possible to question the Minister present in the Chamber, from where such a period, these four months. I think it comes from the practice that this is a period that may be appropriate for a person to find the right institution because of the age of that person, the nature of the illness, disability, and at a time when there is no place in a 24-hour facility, we can look for it and within these four months we will find such a place. In addition, we need to remember that the logic of directing people who require 24/7 care is that we are looking for an establishment as close as possible to their place of residence. It's about this person being able to maintain interpersonal relations, socializing with the environment in which he lives. If such an establishment is not nearby, within 4 months the local government entity, which directs the person, has a chance to find the facility a little more distant. As I say, this must be considered a last resort. We don't place a person in need of care nearest to his place of residence, just a little further away, which means we have a moment to reflect and put her there. I think that the situation is that after 4 months, a person still stays in a facility is linked to this necessity, resulting from the search for the right place, suitable for a particular person. And there's a last resort: if there's no place closer, we're gonna place the person on the other side. This regulation will also avoid the situation that has so far taken place in practice, that homeless shelters had people requiring 24-hour care, and in fact they were placed in such huts on a permanent basis. It aroused controversy, the voivods took control in this regard. I also had such cases in my territory that people who should actually be in a 24-hour facility were directed to a hugging place because the hugging was considered a cheaper and better solution. Here, in this regulation, we say that this is not a better solution. We allow homeless people, most often aged or with disabilities, to stay in shelters of this type, in those in which care services are provided. However, if a person requires 24-hour care, he should be in a social assistance home, and that is where the local authority responsible for the place of residence of that person should direct him. This is my presumption of four months, but I think it's still possible to ask the representative, the minister, the details, where it came from.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Deputy Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska wish to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you, no.]] But maybe they'll ask you a question... They're here. I can see who's willing. Then I'd ask the Minister here. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Duda was the first to volunteer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, I must repeat the question because I do not understand the intention of the legislator in this regard. We know very well that I have already asked your Senator rapporteur about this. In such situations, the term... Although we have free seats in social services homes in Poland, and it is the Minister who will confirm, we know that the waiting period for certain categories of houses, for houses with specific specializations In particular, I think of nursing homes for chronically ill, mentally ill or with various associated conditions, etc. It is often several months or longer. I think you'll be able to confirm that. So... I'm gonna dig in. I'm gonna ask you to explain why it's these four months. Of course, I could ask why 3, if it were written that it was 3 months. Well, I can't understand it. Wouldn't it be better just to say, until we find a place? Senator Majer was talking about how it might be a certain practice to keep people in a shelter who are being sent to a social security home, but then it would be reasonable to ask why such a referral appeared. Then I ask you to answer that question. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you a second question right away... [[There you go.]] Yes? [[Of course.]] Thank you very much. Minister, homelessness is also linked to the lack of an address, and this is also a challenge for the social services community. There's always a problem with who's actually paying. Who's really gonna pay if there's no address? Should this be paid by the municipality where the last check-in was? This is still not conclusively resolved and is being pushed between municipalities. Besides, they also have their benefits, but this is generally insufficient. So in short, this is the second question: who will pay in a situation where homelessness involves a lack of address, which municipality? Is it the last one or the one from which the person was taken to the shelter? Please answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u68	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, according to the article. 54 (1) (a) 2a of the Social Assistance Act, where the expected period of waiting to be placed in a social assistance home of a particular type closest to the place of residence of the person concerned is more than 3 months, the person concerned shall, at his request, be referred to a social assistance home of that type which is as close as possible to the place of residence as possible, at which time the waiting period for the placement is less than 3 months. That's what the welfare bill says today. In turn, according to the procedated amendment of the Social Assistance Act in particularly justified situations, a person with a decision to send social assistance to a home for waiting to be placed in a facility can stay in a homeless shelter for a period of 4 months, i.e. we have extended this period by a month. It is important to stress that it is up to the municipality to find a place in an appropriate type of social assistance home, not an organisation which, for example, leads. the facility concerned or the homeless person. The proposed regulation is intended to provide temporary support to the homeless until they are placed in the facility. Why? Today's situation, as it turns out from my conversations with the organizations that run these institutions, even though there is such a general record Because it doesn't apply to homeless people, it's just that homeless people stay in such facilities, even though they have a decision, a year, a year, two years, and as if there is no will to change this place. Therefore, today we give local governments a little longer time, about a month, to find this person a place in the welfare home. We give tools to the voivods so they can control whether it's being implemented or not. Because often there is such a practice that self-government, yes, there is no place in the house of social assistance e.g. in the area of a given city, but already in the wicket surrounding this city, i.e. in the county or in nearby towns, there are available places, only that the local government does not want to direct to these towns, because then it pays not in its city. Therefore, we today, as if by this provision, impose an obligation on local governments that, if they do not take place at home, they must send to another welfare home, and to the services of the voivodeship we give a tool to control this. [[Thank you, Minister...]] Mr. Senator... [[Second question.]] I'll give you the answer to the second question. [[Oh, second question.]] Indeed, this situation is one of the more difficult to resolve when it comes to homelessness. We in this amendment of the law depart from the social contract in special situations, e.g. cold when the person is directed to the facility. Well, at this point, the local government in which the person is located is paid and should apply to the local government from which the person comes, i.e. where his or her address is, for reimbursement of costs and regulation... [[What if there's no address, Minister?]] What do you mean there's no address? [[If he's homeless, he doesn't have an address.]] This person doesn't care about the last place he checked in from 10, 15 years ago, but there's a check-in somewhere. This is what the Social Assistance Act is talking about, and we are not regulating this matter right now. [[May I ask you another question, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u70	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u71	Excuse me, Minister, but this is a really complicated story about this last place of residence. These push-ups are usually left on ice in this situation because no one wants to feel responsible to pay for this person. I don't know, I think it should be more clearly regulated. But I'd like to get back to practice. Minister, you say practices are so... It's been four months, and there's no room in the welfare home. And then what? Is that person who's in this shelter displayed in a graphic way?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u72	No. [[What then?]] I already said that it is an obligation imposed on the local government and the local government to find a place in the welfare home. Currently in Poland we have about 1 thousand 100 seats available. Therefore, in no way... [[But not for the elders, not at all.]] Yes, in general, but also for the elderly, because these are institutions, e.g. for the somatically ill. We are, in effect, securing this person, so that this person, so to speak, does not stand outside the door, and we impose an obligation on the local government. [[Good luck with that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u73	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u74	I would define this law as a definitive and therefore useful law. It does not create anything, especially it does not create opportunities for local governments, because the definition tells us how to behave, but unfortunately does not talk about measures. Even if we assume that in large municipalities, rich communities there will be material resources to create, say, in these shelters the standard of social assistance home, such temporary, then already in small municipalities, the Minister, there is no money to govern these people in some way that this law speaks of. And there is also the question of how to separate, because especially among the homeless, although not only, there are people with pathologists of drunkenness, drugs, and the law does not allow these groups to exist together. And the second question, Minister I have heard here that the Minister of Construction is helping you, a great help in the situation of surplus and soon a housing paradise that will be revealed to us. It concerns the problem of homelessness. In other words, my question is: is the government working to eliminate homelessness as a phenomenon that violates the principles of social co-life, as a phenomenon that is not only socially unpleasant, even annoying, but also inside and outside creates various dangers, and this is the loss of life, and this is the spread of diseases, and this is the theft? Therefore, the question is whether, as a state, we must tolerate this violation of the principles of intercourse, which, for everyone, including the homeless, who may be expressing the will to live in homelessness, is harmful, is even contrary to the constitution, because the constitution requires health protection and, in particular, the protection of life. Last year in this environment, several people died in various accounts, several people were killed. And there are other phenomena. And to be honest, for me, I'm almost done. It's awkward in terms of the content of television transmission when it shows, you can say, the teary scenes, like the police brigade, sometimes headed by the voivode, penetrates the woods and asks the homeless to leave the foil tent and report, etc. And the third question. Oh, dear, I think I'm out of time, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry. [[Yes.]] It concerns what was being moved here, social services homes. These four months, it doesn't matter 3 or 4... There's just no room in social services, and there won't be, and where you found it. As you say, there are gaps, open spaces, those municipalities that could direct someone there, just as this law states whether or not they have to direct them now, do not have the means to do so. [[Mr. Senator...]] That's it. Period. [[I'm asking you kindly.]] Well, the question is, where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u75	Good. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll start with the purpose of this bill. The aim of the proposed regulation is to bridge the gap in the system for helping homeless people to obtain this assistance in the form of care services. I will remind you that at the end of 2015 a shelter, a shelter and a heating room were introduced into the Polish system of facilities for homeless people. As the 2016 experience has shown, according to the proposed classification, they should not really be in these facilities, for example. sick people. And we know that homeless people are often sick people. Therefore, the amendment of this law addresses this problem and complements this gap. That's why we're bringing in a shelter with care services. I would like to say this: the task of self-governments is both to provide shelter and to provide care services and specialized care services. This task since the 1990s has been in the field of the tasks of local government, the tasks of municipalities. This is a task that has been carried out and there is no additional resources to implement it; they must be secured in the budgets of the municipalities. We're just kind of giving it the opportunity to, for example. During the severe frosts, homeless people who are sick but do not require 24-hour care could legally stay in these facilities. This is what I would say, with the answer to the senator's second question, how to eliminate homelessness as a phenomenon that threatens the principles of social life. If we have adequate infrastructure provided, rooms where homeless people can reside in a secure, non-threatening way of social relations, then we will in some way eliminate those who threaten the principles of social relations. There are no restrictions in shelters or in any other type of shelters. About joining them... I refer here to all kinds of pathology or, I don't know, drug addiction, alcoholism. We here do not raise these issues at all with regard to this type of facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have two questions. One thing comes from my ignorance, perhaps you'll calm me down. In those forms which are currently described in the Social Welfare Act, are the following 2 forms, i.e. A bathhouse for the homeless and just giving out warm meals, especially in winter? If they weren't there, maybe we should think about it. There are already institutions that run such specialised baths, e.g. I'm sure it's Caritas. A homeless man can just bathe there, shave him, get fresh underwear, fresh clothes. It's just that he's also seen differently from those who come into contact with him. Well, the need for warm meals in the winter, I guess I don't have to justify it here, describe it. Maybe on the occasion of the next amendment add these two forms to the Care Act? That's one thing. The second question arises from mandatory application I don't know what to call it, it's like standards for both objects and people who work at certain facilities. There are pretty short deadlines for adjustment. Aren't we gonna fire the baby with the bath? Namely, it is often the case that in these institutions there are people who do not have a secondary education. Well, they won't complete secondary education in two years, and they want to work. And this is more about heart than about education. I'd rather be, God forbid... Well, if something happened, I'd rather be taken care of by a person without middle school who has a heart in the right place, not someone who has the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u80	High Izbo, in today's reality, according to the Social Assistance Act, we have 3 types of facilities. These are, as I said, shelters, lodgings and heating rooms. But a meal in these facilities can always be provided and co-financed by both the municipal funds and the special programs that function. But it's not a matter of... Well, there are other rules that govern this issue. With regard to standards Today, the regulation is in force. We are actually extending by 2020 the alignment of standards, including those on education, because in fact these people should already have them. We therefore extend the investigation period to these standards. [[What about those baths?]] The baths, of course... I mean, they're not like the type of facility. They are a 24-hour facility, but they are not a service facility. They are built especially by NGOs that help homeless people, but they are not a type of facility.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u81	Minister, now I want to ask you something. Does that mean there doesn't have to be a bath in these facilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u82	No, no, Mr. Marshal. These facilities, as you rightly said the senator, have certain standards and are bathrooms. [[They're ……]] But besides, we're talking about another subject, the baths themselves. So that people... [[I see.]] It could be, for example. a bath bus that drives up and can be a bath.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u83	Thank you. You're the one who explained it to me. 'Cause I got worried... [[Fun in the room]] ...the fates of some senators. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to clarify something. Senator rapporteur said we're okay. 22,000 such facilities That's the government. Is the Ministry e.g. Does he know the estimated number of people who come through these houses? I know it's very difficult, but there's probably a record, because these houses register the people they're looking after. And my next question is, is there more or less a known cost, or is there such an average cost... How much does it cost for a person in a facility like this? Because that's important, too. And how much could it cost or could it cost with a care service that generates extra costs? Because that might give us the scale of the problem in the financial dimension for public finances. As I understand it, these costs in the vast majority are borne by local governments, so municipalities... municipalities or districts, I don't know... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Municipalities.]] The communes. Good. They carry communes. But what is the scale of these measures? The point is for the public to know, too, that these outlays... I don't think they're that small. There must be some estimates in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u85	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u86	With regard to the number of places, that's about 20,000, to be exact: 19,000 759. That's the number of seats. As far as the number of units is concerned, there are 484, of which 363 are run by municipalities or on behalf of local government units and 121 are not financed by the municipality or district. They do it, for example. NGOs. And the number of places in these facilities is 5,000 439. But as for the cost, I can't answer the senator. [[How about in writing, Minister?]] Yes, of course. [[In that case, in writing, the Minister would be able to... I mean, the resort has a record of it. The point is to give me a written answer. I'd appreciate it... thank you.]] [[Thank you. Minister, how many homeless people do we have in Poland?]] It's estimated... According to a recent study in 2017, we have 33,000 408 homeless people. But that's just an approximate number.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u87	Sure, sure. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u88	Minister, the age structure of the homeless is undoubtedly changing and their health changes, especially when they are long-term homeless. Many of them require caring services. And it is good that such opportunities will arise. But it's not. And I think we agree here, too. The optimal conditions and this is not the destination, hence the time limit. Unfortunately, this bill reminds us I understand that this has to be settled. somewhere else, and that you need other means to do so. I'm talking about two things. The first point is that the offer for those who require caring services, e.g. in the form of sheltered housing, it is so poor in Poland that these people cannot be sent there immediately. That's the real problem, and that's the prosthesis. The second thing is that, of course, in some cases, if there's a place... Today, at the previous point, we considered this possibility. The idea was that there'd be a lot more housing for the poor than there are now. That's not gonna solve the problem anyway, 'cause that's where the services are needed. And unfortunately, it is. After all, another government program is to serve this purpose. The fact that the availability of these services due to the lack of resources in the municipalities is too small. I'm afraid, Minister, something like that, even though we're going to write down four months, it's probably not going to be kept for two reasons. Firstly, there will be no place to direct these people, as Mr Duda indicated. And I agree with him. Second, municipalities will avoid this for financial reasons, because staying in a hostel, even with care services, will be much cheaper than staying in social services homes. Therefore, my question is: is the Ministry going to take serious action in the near future to create an aid scheme for people who are independent, including those who are homeless? That's the root of the problem. Because if we had sheltered housing and money for care services, it wouldn't be necessary for these people to be in shelters.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u89	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u90	High Izbo, we are talking about 4 months in the case of only people who have decisions to put in a social security home. There is no time limit for others. Although it must be said that such facilities are not the right place to stay... The task of the hostel is to activate homeless people, which is to help them get out of homelessness. Of course, we can say that the number of people who come out of homelessness is still too small, because it is about 2 000 400 people, almost 1 thousand 300 take up work. So it's not enough all the time. Of course, not all people are capable of activating, so we say that in hostels with caring places you do not need this element of activation, because sick people, older people will never enter the labour market again. That is why we make this distinction. As far as the question of the aid scheme is concerned, I will start by saying that in Polish legislation there is no idea of independence. The first document that talks about it is a document currently in inter-ministerial arrangements, a document on social policy for older people. And for the first time, we introduce the concept of independence and assign specific tasks to it. The second step seems to be the change of case law team. And in this case we are also considering the introduction of the concept of independence into the Polish legal system. So the government is leaning on this issue. The first step was taken. We hope that next steps will be taken soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u91	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, will you confirm that it is true that something should be done so that care services can be financed in conjunction with the financing of the services of the person in the place of residence? 'Cause accommodation isn't a place to live. It's true, isn't it? The municipality can allocate funds for care services at the place of residence, right? Well, what else is putting in a shelter, and what else is a person's support. And that's what's going on. So even if the municipality wanted to, it wouldn't be able to help them with a care service. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Sorry. I didn't quite understand the senator's question.]] [[Okay, let's do it again.]] One more time, if you don't mind. The fact is that accommodation is not a place to live It's true, isn't it? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: No, because it is only...]] Yes. But after all, the municipality can allocate funds to the care service... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Yes. He has a duty...]] [[...only in the place of residence.]] ...only in the place of residence. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Yes, sir.]] [[That's it.]] That's what I'm talking about. In this situation... We've already talked about who's gonna drive and who's gonna pay... I mean, when it comes to driving, it's kind of a different situation... But when it comes to who's paying, maybe the municipality would like to support the care service of its former resident, who is... Isn't there a way to settle this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u93	But there's nothing to prevent this person from having a care service. [[I don't think that's part of the bill. I don't know if...]] Any person who is entitled to a care service by virtue of the law And that's the task of the commune's own... [[But it's at the place of residence.]] He's at his place of residence. [[But this person isn't... the place to stay isn't the place to live.]] But please understand that these three types of facilities were introduced for this purpose. That's how I understand it. I mean. the previous parliament introduced that we have 24-hour help in the hostel, and the accommodation facilities, as the name says, are open at night, in particular specific cases, when, for example. The air temperature is dropping. Therefore, combining this activity with a care service seems to be so... well, a little to grow. If there's anything we need, that's why we have a shelter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u94	I'd like more... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask. Couldn't it be possible to create such a possibility... I don't know, maybe it already exists, but I don't see it coming from the bill. I would like to see such a person in the accommodation unit, even though she is homeless, support also a care service, because she needs support, so that it is compatible and clear that we will make full use of such a range of services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u95	Mr. Senator, that's why we're introducing a shelter with care services. So if we have... If a person requires caring services, he can stay in a shelter. And then the municipality will provide this care service in a comprehensive manner. And we cannot provide care services in the accommodation unit, for example because of the standards of the accommodation unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u96	Minister, why is the commune... [[Okay, but...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but... [[But I...]] It's not a commune. It's a shelter. It gives a service, not a community. And since you're saying that we have an extended... the whole issue of this bill is about a new service, a support service, I'd say, a quasi-medical one, that's what you might call a kind of caring, though a little bit more advanced. But it's not the community that gives this service, it's the hostel that gives it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: But here we have the decision of the municipality...]] But this facility gives it, not the municipality additionally.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u97	Miss... Good. Maybe I can explain. Mr. Senator, the point is, isn't it possible to create a situation that the nursing home will be in the place of residence, and that's because the commune can help such people in the place of residence, and if the facility is out of residence... Yes, Mr. Senator? [[Yes. And that could be extended to this kind of...]] That's when the commune can't do it. Isn't it possible to create such an inctum here: the place is an establishment, it should be in the place of residence...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u98	And that is why I stress that this shelter with care services provides such services. Accommodation is not the right place to provide care services because it is not possible to provide such services because of the standard. [[I see.]] [[What if a person requires a care service?]] It'll be at the shelter. [[It's so easy to say, but you know it's not that simple...]] [[Okay, but...]] [[...because the network is not so extensive...]] Really sleepy because of standards they cannot provide caring services.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u99	The Minister understands what's going on, and she answers... I won't translate, but he answers... if it's necessary to provide care services, it should be done in a resort other than accommodation. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: In another institution, yes.]] Yeah, he's got to reroute that kind of problem. Senator Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question à about secondary education. We develop vocational education, so they can be caring and rehabilitation classes, etc. So there's gonna be people who graduated from a professional school with a profile that indicates they're fit to work in such centres. Therefore, it may be appropriate to include in the Act this secondary education plus vocational education with such a profile suitable for working in such institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u102	I want to tell you about the story here, I mean. why this solution was introduced in the law at all. As I said, the bill was amended at the end of 2015, it was a parliamentary submission. And then this matter of education was sort of left behind by a regulation. So today, all the records that we're translating into the bill today are in today's regulation. And since we have now undertaken to amend the law, in accordance with the legislative procedure, the Government Legislative Centre has recommended that the provisions on education be transferred from the regulation to the law. And therefore, we are not making any new legislative changes in this respect. It's already in effect today, it wasn't... We have gone through the legislative path to amend the regulation, there have been no comments in this regard, and therefore we are not tearing down the existing order or introducing any additional effort here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u103	All right. Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u104	Mr. Marshal, Minister, let me ask you some financial questions. Because I understand from the Minister's statement that there are certain differences in terms of places in social assistance homes, of course, need to be taken into account. It's not missing. So in general, any person who should go to a social services home has a chance to be there within the four months. And that's one thing. The second point concerns the financing of this stay. I understand that there is no provision in the Local Government Act that says that the municipality cannot spend more money on the social assistance system. I also understand that the adoption of the budget of each government is a political act, and under this political act, the governor or councillors decide whether they will spend money on social capital, on their residents, or whether they will renovate pavements, possibly building cultural and social infrastructure, organize events, promotions, etc. In fact, the issue of spending money on social services homes, possibly on very cool events, is in the hands of local government. He's the only one who decides what he wants to spend his money on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u105	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u106	I can only confirm what the senator said. The Act does not impose any restrictions on the spending of funds for social assistance tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u107	Minister, I have a question too. Don't you think, however, that the mechanical transfer of these rules from the regulation to the law, especially since you don't really need to have a middle education, at least in my opinion, to serve homeless people... These are different kinds of cases. Do you think this is appropriate? Otherwise, don't you think it's time to step down? The more that we extend by 2 years the situation in which this secondary education does not apply, which means that there is a problem with it and that the government sees it. Do you think that secondary education is necessary to work in this kind of homeless centers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u108	Mr. Marshal, the extension of existing standards is not just about education. We are also talking about adapting to new infrastructure standards. And that's, I'd say, the component that makes us extend this time in this area. Keepers are... [[No, no, that's not what I'm asking. I'm asking about education, I mean. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] That's why I'm going into education now. In this regard, there were no comments from organisations or local authorities which operate such facilities that this would somehow reduce the availability of these entities, and it was possible to submit such comments and during the revision of the law, and during the revision of the regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u109	Okay, I'm not a specialist, and there are people in this room who are specialists. You're a specialist, too, so I accept what you said. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak has submitted his statement to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And now we are back to discussing the first item of the agenda: the law on amending the law on financial support for the creation of social housing, shelters and houses for the homeless, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. We continue to ask questions to the Minister. We invite Minister Smolinski to the podium. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Art. 22. We remove from the legal system one of the laws that talked about creating social housing, accommodation and homeless homes. But these premises and houses stay. They're physical. In the amended act, you change certain conditions relating to the operation of these premises, accommodation facilities and houses. Namely, you sharpen local governments. 'Cause it's mostly local governments that do it, and they're gonna do it. The conditions related to the possible subsequent transformation of social housing into other, say, housing types into non-social housing. So far it's been that according to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 after 5 years from the date of settlement of the project it was possible to freely transform the social premises into another apartment, without any conditions. At the moment, it's impossible at all. If I'm wrong, you can get me out of the way. In turn, the transformation of social housing into another type of apartment, while ensuring another social establishment, I do not know whether I am making myself clear, with a similar area, is to be possible after 5 years. So far, it's been practically any kind of thing. Tell me why the records of years are sharpened here. There's a change from 5 to 10. There were 5, and now there will be 10 in case of any transformation. In the case of the maintenance of the area of social premises, this was possible practically immediately. It's the lips. 5 and 6 of the current Article. 21th Bill. Right now it's a mouth. Six, because of the mouth. Five of them fell out of here. It is completely different in its wording. This makes the situation of the municipalities worse.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u112	Mr. Senator, in the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1... we change point 7. Paragraphs 5 and 6 shall remain. I don't understand which points you're talking about. There are also new articles 21a, 21b, 21c and 22. Not really... I'm sorry, but I don't understand your question. In general, where there was no state support, there were no restrictions on the use of premises. But where that support is That's the kind of support we're putting in right now. There is a limit to the fact that for 5 years the municipality does not have the freedom to dispose of premises. It's like a general rule. If the municipality is building something from its own resources, we are not interfering, but if the municipality receives public funds, we want no change of destination for a while. This is the principle that we are introducing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u113	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Maybe we're using other lyrics. In the current article. 21 Law of 8 December 2006 on financial support, etc. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Ah, sorry. Okay, Mr. Senator...]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 now sounds like that. 5 years after the date of the settlement of the project, it is permitted to change the destination of social premises or sheltered dwellings to those which are part of the housing stock of the municipality which are not social premises or protected dwellings. So it turns social to non-social. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 in the wording proposed now refers to something else entirely, as if a different matter. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 in turn, which at the moment allows, without any rigour of time, the conversion of a given social establishment into another residential establishment, taking into account the condition that the general area of social premises will not change... It's gonna be like five years now. In the Law, in the material provisions, there is a provision of 10 years, but in the transitional provision, it is supposed to be an article. 13 is 5 years old. You're making it worse for the communes... so we're clear. I don't mind that this is the case when it comes to new investments or, let's call it new contracts. But you also do it in the case of apartments that already exist. They already function and in fact, and in the legal system. You're making the deal worse, and that's a little incomprehensible. The question is, why? From now on, there are different conditions, different regulations. Yes? We agree on that. But in a situation like this, the old rules should be applied, because these are contracts, old contracts. Is that clear now, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u115	Yes. Where these limitations were 15 years old and 10 years old, we keep them. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 21 in the current paragraph. 1 and Article 1 21 in the new paragraph. 6 are these periods. In the case of the others, however, we introduce a 5-year period. There'll be no more social housing, just like we've done so far. All communal houses have a limit of five years... these premises become communal premises simply, they are no longer social premises, and in the case of municipal premises, we introduce the principle of 5 years limitation in disposal. This is such a general decision. Now there's no social anymore. They're all communal, and we apply the same rules to all communes, a 5-year limitation in communes' disposal. The resources that the municipalities will have for new... It's a separate thing. There'll be more.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u116	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to clarify the points that I raised in the first question. If the Minister is unable to provide information, because she may be a little out of the scope of this bill, this project, I would ask for a written reply. I was concerned, in the Minister's reply, that probably some of the local authorities, as the Minister said, have offered an illegal or illegal solution to their inhabitants, to respond to their housing needs in the form of so-called. rent rentals free of charge. Maybe I'll be more specific. In Warsaw, in the capital city of Warsaw there are, apparently, 5 such settlements, which in total have about 850 apartments. There are about 3 thousand people living there who obtained apartments on such a principle: they passed a place which was owned by the municipality, so-called. the accommodation unit, or the right to a cooperative housing unit, or even an apartment which was owned and, for example, obtained. bigger or more modern apartment in a new resource. It was called. rent-free rent. This was about locations, for example. with an area of more than 80 meters, where the regulated rate was X, and the charge for that, let's say, 2 times X, which was much higher. These were more expensive apartments. These apartments still have the status they have to date. Neither the capital city of Warsaw gives them away for the benefit of these tenants, nor... Actually, the situation is stalemate. I have two questions about that. First. What changes in the situation of tenants who already have contracts under this system? It was in the days of President Paul Piskorski's presidency, so this is a certain event from a dozen years ago. To make it clear to those who are not aware of it. What will change in particular in the situation of tenants who use the municipal housing stock under these conditions? That's one thing. And second of all, what's the status of these people? I was concerned by the Minister's words that perhaps the whole project or this program had no statutory basis. I don't know if it's just a resolution or what kind of... What was the legal basis of this system? Only in the capital city of Warsaw there are at least 850 such apartments and nearly 3 thousand people. I do not know what the situation is in other cities, perhaps similar or similar programs were there. And that's the exact content of my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u118	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, in fact, this problem arose yesterday at a meeting of the joint Senate committees, where representatives, as they called it, presented their problem with a housing experiment in Warsaw. He had not been notified before during the public consultation on this law, so that he could not be considered at all. Any possible solution to this problem... We didn't even have the opportunity to analyze this problem thoroughly. And on the basis of this preliminary analysis, the only thing that could be established at the committee meeting was that it was indeed suspected that by the resolutions of the municipalities' councils Because the municipalities themselves adopted resolutions in this area. In fact, these quasi-communal apartments have been created. As there was a problem with renting large, over-normative apartments, there were also resolutions of municipalities council in this area. This has been created for quasi-communal dwellings. On the one hand, they were in municipal stock and on the other hand, the rules governing the management of these premises, especially as regards rent rates, were already market-oriented. So that we have to look into it, we have an appointment with the representatives... Mostly it's about Warsaw, because other towns... The ladies who were... have already stated that a similar problem was, for example, in Gdansk and there all these premises were sold. In another town, too. Probably the biggest problem is in Warsaw. And that's exactly the data... Like the senator said: more than 800 apartments with more than 3,000 people living in, Prague, Mokotów, I think Żoliborz... So we need to diagnose it thoroughly. There's a suspicion that this was an act that might have been intended to circumvent the law. But today is too early to say it. Well, this bill doesn't regulate it, it doesn't interfere at all. In the case of these persons, the legal status will continue to be the same. The agreements concluded with the municipality are in force. And this law does not regulate it at all. There must be a resolution of the municipality that can solve this. But you may have to find a legal solution. Well, it requires a detailed analysis of the legal status of these premises, on the basis of which they were built, settled, what the obligations of the parties were established, or is not so that these premises actually have only a commercial character, not a municipal or social character, for which the municipal resource, widely understood, was created, whether social or communal. So that for today there is no clear answer, because only yesterday this problem was officially reported to us. Previously, this problem may have functioned socially here somewhere, but it was not formally presented. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you introduced him. So we're gonna meet and we're gonna try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u120	I'm about to turn you over to Senator Jackowski. But before that, I still have a question about this. Because this is such a weird situation. Does the Minister believe that this type of housing will not be subject to this law, the restrictions that this law introduces? She's tightening up some restrictions, isn't she?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u121	Yes, but, as I say, because at the stage of drafting this law, this problem has not been reported anywhere, so we have never considered the law in terms of these specific cases. Now that the problem has been signaled to us... Since the law has a long vacathio legis, if it turns out that there may actually be some adverse effects resulting from this law... I don't anticipate the possibility that we don't react to this. It may be necessary to take a legislative initiative here. And it may not be possible to do what we are talking about through legal solutions, but it will have to be on a case-by-case basis, perhaps even in court, on the basis of claims by tenants against the municipality concerning expenditures or what they have lost, such as the apartments they passed earlier, and now they may be affected by some restrictions. At present, we do not have enough knowledge on this subject to make it clear that this law may apply to such persons or not. It was only reported yesterday.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u122	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u123	Thank you very much. But, Minister, as I understand it, I will get an answer to my question in writing, yes? Because I asked for an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u124	Yeah, but we can answer that when we know the problem. The problem has been signalled orally, we have no legal grounds, we do not know any documents. How long is this gonna take? I don't know, within a month, two months, or how many of us are gonna have to analyze the legal situation that these people are in. I declare that this problem will be dealt with and, once we have a legal situation, I can give you an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u125	I'm the one who would really ask her to be in writing because... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Good.]] ...the people who are in this situation report to me. This is the first case. Secondly, I'd like to point out that those people who used this mode... The whole program was for people who were, well, let's say, in a slightly different situation than those who met the criteria for receiving accommodation units, because because this rent was much higher, the assumption of this scheme was that it was aimed at people who simply had the resources to pay such a high rent for these premises. And that's also an important premise. And now the question is whether the restrictions, as you asked Marshal Borusewicz, arising from this bill will not affect those people who, as I have already mentioned, passed those premises which have so far occupied, and for years have incurred considerable costs, and now are uncertain about their situation. That is why I would ask the Minister to answer this question within a month, because it should not take more time for me to read the documentation, to request the relevant documents from the capital city, to examine the agreements that were concluded, and this situation, to the experts of the Ministry. Because it's about solving legal doubts, not some sort of recovery program. This is a completely separate story and this is the problem in total of the city, because the city owns these apartments, notabene built in 1998, 1999, so it is a relatively new housing resource. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Yes, we yesterday...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u126	Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yesterday...]] Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u127	Thank you very much. Yesterday, as I said before, for the first time this problem was presented to us. In fact, even it was required of these people to document higher incomes than those which gave entitlement to the municipal premises, so if we were to accept them, these premises should not be in municipal stock, because in municipal resources there are those for which both the law on the creation and the law on the protection of tenants determine certain... the municipality determines certain income, and the law sets certain requirements. And that means it was an out-of-law decision. Until we analyze these documents... Well, I hope that happens within a month. If documents are required from the city office, then after receiving these documents. When we get them, I don't know. But we haven't met with these countries yet, but, as I say, yesterday, the problem was signalled, and we agreed that we would meet soon, and we will begin to analyze this problem. Since, as I said before, there is a long period of vacathio legis, there is time to deal with this problem. I don't know if anyone else is gonna turn themselves in, it's hard to say. Well, Warsaw has already volunteered, so we have something to work on and we can determine this legal state. That's all I can declare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u128	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Please. [[Yeah, on another point.]] Good. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u129	Minister, I have this question: how should we understand the programme, in a sense, initiated by this law, which we are now debating, in comparison with the information that appears, and with analyses as regards the future of the housing market in Poland, from which it is clear And it appears, that's common to these different expertises, this time of arrival In the perspective of 20 years we should expect deserts, especially in some urban agglomerations, what is connected with the process, unfortunately, of the ageing of Polish society? We can say that then there may be some overflow of housing, especially when it comes to resources in cities, in some cities, to emphasize: in some cities, because this does not apply to everyone. Does the government monitor this situation and adapt the forecasts of its projects to address the urgent issue of housing availability, especially for young people, starting families, precisely in this demographic aspect and the changes that will probably take place in the real estate market within 20 years? And my second question. Whether this housing programme also analysed the option that appeared in Poland in the 1990s in public debates on solving the housing problem, i.e. the so-called option. Housewives? This is the German model. I have already forgotten what it's called in German, but it was about housing funds, which, through systematic savings, gave the prospect of acquiring a dwelling. And it worked in Germany. I don't know how many millions, but some millions of apartments in this system were built in Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u130	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's a matter of deserts. Well, deserts are a natural thing in the housing economy. Today we have such a problem that there is a global shortage of housing. I was talking about the European average. There are various studies here, but it can be said that there are 1 million to 5 million missing in Poland or how many millions of apartments there Whether it's the European average or the average size of these apartments, it's what density is, how many people can live in a given apartment. The higher the standards, the more apartments there must be. As I said, there are 170 000 apartments missing from the municipal economy today. These are the data presented by local governments, but there are still a few million apartments in general. If we build... In general, when it comes to the number of apartments built, it's like this. Whether you build them or build them, as I said, cooperatives, TBS, local governments That we have to build more, with a surplus. There is always a certain number of apartments on the market, which is a few percent desert. The point is to have the freedom to own the apartments. If I want to switch apartments or move out, I know there's a pool of free apartments in the town. Part of it is because there's an oversupply, and part of it's that someone can wait and a year, and more before they rent an apartment because they want to rent it expensive. Well, that already depends on the owner's policy. So that there must be some number of empty houses, but not in the sense that no one owns the apartment, only in the sense that the owner is waiting for the tenant, and sometimes he can wait a long time; as I said, it may be a matter of ownership policy. So of course there must be a certain number of these deserts. For now, we have a gap in the number of apartments to build. As I said, in order for us to reach the mentioned average, we must certainly build more than 2 million apartments in Poland. In the 1970s, we built approx. 260,000 apartments a year. Like I said, for the first time last year, we were able to build 160 grand, we couldn't exceed 150 grand before. Well, then it was possible. The older generation knows the period of the big album, etc., when there was a lot of building, but we don't want to go back to that model. However, modular construction is becoming more and more fashionable. It undoubtedly reduces costs, accelerates construction, but it is already a completely different construction. It is very widespread in Western Europe, especially in Germany and Sweden. As regards the issue of housing estates, this is currently the subject of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. The Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers will decide in what direction further work on, let's call it, cash, but it is not known whether it will adopt the formula of the German construction banks, whether it will be a savings system, as originally assumed. At the moment, the Prime Minister directly supervises the program of A new model will be developed to ensure that housing can be financed, especially in terms of poor people and young people. Here there is also the issue of housing allowances for these people; if construction proves to be more expensive, if the rent is higher, the State can provide an apartment allowance and even the difference between the income of this person and the rent, helping to pay the rent. So that this is at the stage of the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. I don't know if there's anything else... I think that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u132	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Thank you very much.]] I inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski in the course of the... I'm joining Senator Jackowski's request that this be within one month. If you're not ready for the minister, it's just... Well, the point is that you write that the work is ongoing and at what stage they are. Anyone sign up? [[Senator Florek.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a few notes. As we already know, the law eliminates the stock of social housing, integrates it into the municipal stock. Apartments with municipal resources are intended for low-income people, as the Minister said. So the direction is one, so that these apartments are generally intended for people with lower incomes to do so. And that's why the bill changes. What we discussed at the committee meeting yesterday... First of all, the Act introduces a new algorithm for the calculation of rent. And yesterday, representatives of various associations... Anyway, I can see that there are people here at the moment who attended the committee meeting. So yesterday there was a discussion about this, too, whether this algorithm is correct or not, for example. Someone will have a higher income on, say, wages and all that income will have to spend on this increased rent. Of course, the Minister replied that a factor of 1,2 was introduced at the Sejm meeting and that this was supposed to work. But if it works, life will show, we'll wait. And that's why in the end I'm going to talk about these, let's say, vacations, vacathio legis, about the fact that it's a good thing that there's such a long term. First, it was about the fact that this algorithm was being introduced. The second important issue is the 2.5 year after which you will have to make a statement of property with PIT. What's that for? Well, that's just so you can check your income gradually right now. If you're making more money, you've got more income, you've got more to pay. It's still good enough that this first term... the bill comes in after a year, if we add this year 2.5, that's actually 3.5 years. Then these changes... 3.5 years result from the bill, but it says it doesn't have to be 2.5 years, it's up to the municipality to decide. And it could be a longer term, for example. Four years, five years. So that there is no such requirement here. But property claims will have to be made. And, of course, if there's gonna be these property statements, there's gonna be some kind of verification now that someone doesn't have an apartment, because they're gonna have to give it there. And since he's got an apartment, this place doesn't belong to him because he bought an apartment on the open market. These are common cases that I think will be caught. I remember the things that happened... It was about the tenement cleaners. There were a lot of cases there too. about the rent; someone was paying, and it turned out that he had another apartment, etc., etc. It was some positive side of that, so to speak, an unpleasant event that took place when it came to the clean houses. And this will now, of course, be verified. The Minister said that if someone didn't fold This is the way the law is written. That's what pays this percentage, 8%. There was a discussion here, too. I heard what the Sejm said about it, and you said, "Why 8%?" why not 6% and why not 5% etc. Well, it's accepted 8%. , claiming that it is no more... that it results from what is the replacement value. How do we count this 8%? , it's relative to 100% ...Well, that's what makes this value. I happen to be an asset valuer, so I know a little bit about this value, its determination, etc., and I know how these things go. So it was assumed that this would be 8%. But that doesn't mean that the 8% You'll have to pay. You will have to pay according to the declaration you submit, according to the amount of your income. And that's where the problem arises. If my income goes up, I can pay, pay, and pay. At some point, I'm gonna get to 8%. And I'm actually gonna pay like in the open market. Municipal apartment, free market... Then it's a matter of whether it's worth living in a communal apartment, and I live there for 40 or 50 years. Of course, this will be a problem, but it is important to know that such situations will take place. Another important issue that was discussed was the age, the 75 years when it comes to forced conversions, the fact that when someone turns 75, it doesn't apply to him. And here's the question... Because I also heard why 75 years and why not... Well, it would be hard, because it was 67 years old, it was the same age for men and women, but because we happen to be back to the 60s and 65s, you can't tell the same age right now. But why not before, which is when I retire? If I was 65 or 67, why not protect me at that age? You know, things change in life. I made a certain amount, some money, and when I retire, I get a pension that's much lower, and so on. I had a big apartment, which is what I'm gonna do now. Finally, it was decided in the Seym that it was to be 75 years old, and it remained that way. It could be discussed, but it has already been discussed in the Sejm, so I don't think we can change much here. A very important issue was the subsidies to the works flats. This is an important problem in many, many cities. There are factory apartments that are hard to sell, but if there was this surcharge up to 50% And the municipality would have bought it, it would have been an opportunity to sell it. I think this is the right direction. On one condition, of course, provided that there is the money that the Minister spoke of. I hear this with regard to many laws, I hear that we will build roads and there also next year, then in the following years there will be more and more subsidies. Here, too, we know that for 2019 there will be 500 million, for 2020, 500 million, from 2021 to 2025 1 billion, and 5 years after 1 billion and 2 years after 500 million will amount to PLN 6 billion. Well, it's supposed to be money guaranteed, guaranteed, but we know how it is with the budget, and if these expenses... we hear every minute that we're increasing those amounts, so it's finally gonna turn out that this money may not be enough. In general, the opinion on the law, as regards local governments, was positive, because I think the local authorities welcome this law. Of course, there are examples, this experiment in Warsaw, which was mentioned here, which was discussed... I think there's gonna be problems in other cities, too, like... Someone here was asking about the apartment, about someone getting a communal apartment and remodeling it himself. Of course, there were cases, and then it was settled. But there may be other cases, and there may be others. Therefore, it is good what happened, what is in this Act, that in general is year, vacathio legis until 1 January 2019, and then it is still 2,5 years until the first statements will be made. So I am convinced that this is the time to examine this further, so that these comments which could be justified and were made at the committee's meeting will be analysed, because this law can always be improved. The fact that she is a step in the right direction is no doubt, but we must also consider what the Minister said about the construction of apartments, what Poland looks like against other countries, that we have, say, 373, let's say 375, recently heard that 373 apartments per 1,000 inhabitants. So this needs to be improved and appropriate action taken. There's a segment here that concerns municipal housing. Well, it's not about the whole building development strategy, but it's an element. That is why it is important to develop other buildings as well. In this situation, it is comforting that developers, especially them, have built more apartments this year. We're not going back to that building that was long ago when it was built from a big plate and so on. Now we have to warm up some thousands of buildings, invest in these buildings, because that's how it was. But what is important is that other construction is also developing. There have just been mentioned here the topics related to the program of living and living, because this is also important. During the debate that was taking place here, I argued that the living +. This is a program that doesn't work, because the rules that are in this program... It does not offer any hope that, for example, there will be developers willing to build, because then they will have a rent imposed in half the premises, etc. It's not gonna work. I'm just gonna let you guys... [[They're already building.]] Mr. Senator... Oh, they're already building. This is me, Senator, and I will tell you at the end that, in response to the letter, to the question I made in plenary... Let me quote you... Well, according to the information provided by the Minister for Investment and Development, the National Property Resources concluded, as at 19 February this year, 3 preliminary contracts, Senator. So if you say they're building, then... The program is given, we know what it looks like, but the implementation of this program, as you can see, is going very poorly. That is why we need to think about what further action needs to be taken in order to quickly improve this statistics in terms of the number of apartments that we find ungrateful. In conclusion, I will say that there is a good action here, a good direction, but from this law it is clear that it is directed only to low-income people, and therefore it will push people who have an increasing income, and yet we are making more and more money. You have to find for these people an opportunity to buy apartments, maybe on the free market, etc., etc., so that these apartments are available. Therefore, the credit system, the support system is very important and important here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u134	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Now we're going to point three. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law on amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 734, and the report of the Commission In print No 734 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 28 February 2018 has examined Print Act No 734 and proposes that the High Senate adopt the attached draft resolution. I would like to draw attention to this fact and justify the decision of the joint committees. The Act regulates the cultivation of genetically modified crops, in particular as regards: notification to the Polish authorities of GMO crops and notification of the location of GMO crops in accordance with Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and the manner in which information on the location of GMO crops is made public. The GMO crop register shall be kept by the Minister for the Environment. With regard to crop control in the field of genetic modification detection, the control body will be the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The aim of the Act is to increase safety for human health and the environment by establishing mechanisms for effective control and elimination of genetically modified varieties in Poland, supplementing the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the This is the number of the document. C-478/13 concerning the absence of provisions in the Polish legal order governing the notification, registration and notification of GMO crops to the public. The Act establishes the territory of the Republic of Poland a GMO-free area. This overarching principle will be implemented through proposals made by the Minister responsible for Environment to the European Commission on the basis of Article. 49b. 1 Act to exclude any new genetically modified organism authorised for marketing in the European Union from cultivation throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. It will also be implemented through a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the prohibition of cultivation of a given genetically modified organism in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as through a complicated procedure for obtaining the entry of GMO cultivation into the Register of GMO cultivation necessary for the commencement of the cultivation of genetically modified plants. In 2015, the Government of the Republic of Poland took advantage of the possibilities offered by Directive 2005/412 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on amending Directive 2001/18/EC as regards the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in their territory. 26b Directive As a result of applying to the European Commission to obtain the territorial exemption for the cultivation of several genetically modified varieties products. This new EU legislation has given Member States the freedom to decide whether they want to grow GMOs in their territory without changing the risk assessment procedure provided for in the EU GMO authorisation system. Rzeczypospolita Polska obtained the exclusion of its territory as regards the possibility of growing 8 types of modified maize All those who have been admitted or are currently authorised to be marketed for cultivation in the European Union. This means that even after the introduction of these genetically modified varieties into the market by the relevant EU regulations, they will not be allowed to grow in Poland. Therefore, there is currently no cultivation of genetically modified varieties in Poland, and after the entry into force of this Act it will not be possible to apply effectively for the inclusion of the crop in the GMO Register. An additional protection against unwanted cultivation of GMOs in Poland is the procedure for obtaining an entry in the GMO Register. This procedure ensures the implementation of the Court's judgment on the notification of the location of GMO crops to the competent Polish authorities and is fully compatible with European Union law. However, contrary to similar rules in other Member States of the European Union, without obtaining authorisation from national authorities... The draft law imposes a number of obligations on operators wishing to introduce genetically modified crops, e.g. the obligation to submit documentation demonstrating the absence of adverse effects of cultivation of the GMO plant on environmental safety, including the obligation to demonstrate the absence of effects of cultivation of GMOs on the reduction of the quantitative prevalence of parasitic and predatory species which may contribute to the regulation of the presence of quantitative organisms harmful to plant and animal production under natural conditions. In practice, this means the obligation to submit research results for thousands of native plant species and animals included, inter alia. strict or partial protection. The entry of GMO cultivation into the GMO Register will only be possible in the case of cultivation of genetically modified varieties planned on agricultural land at a distance of not less than 30 km from the border of the area where one of the territorial forms of conservation has been established, such as, inter alia, National park, landscape park, Natura 2000 area. The provisions of the draft law provide for the submission of written declarations to all owners and users of perpetual real estate whose real estate or apiaries are located 30 km from the agricultural land where the cultivation of GMOs is planned, that they do not object to the intention to establish such a zone. Given the negative attitude of citizens towards the use of genetically modified varieties in agriculture, it can be assumed that it will in practice be impossible to obtain an entry in the register of genetically modified varieties due to the lack of consent of property owners adjacent to the intended cultivation within 30 km of the limit of this cultivation. Control of GMO crops is a task that has not yet been carried out in Poland on such a large scale. Crop checks have been carried out by the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection only for MON 810 maize. The authority carrying out the inspection on the basis of the proposed act will be the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. Crop control will include field control in 16 voivodships, substantive supervision and coordination of tasks in voivodships, including administrative proceedings, imposition of fines. The control will be subject to GM crops and other crops suspected to be genetically modified crops. The checks will cover both documents, e.g. verification of evidence of the purchase of certified seed and of the sampling of field, plant or plant products for their laboratory analysis for the detection of genetic modification. The cultivation of GMOs without the required register or in breach of the conditions and methods set out in the alert shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment until the years 3. However, if the result of unauthorized cultivation is death or serious harm to the health of many, the penalty may be up to 12 years in prison. The government bill was substantially amended in the course of the Parliament's work. The provisions introducing an obligation to establish a GMO cultivation zone have been removed from the draft, replacing them with provisions for the registration of GMO crops in the register of genetically modified varieties. The second fundamental change was to increase from 3 to 30 km the minimum distance of location of the planned cultivation of GMOs from protected areas. Similarly, the area where the subject... The intended cultivation of GMOs must be consulted on its establishment with owners or users of perpetual real estate and beekeepers or beekeepers' associations whose real estate or apiaries are located within 30 km. In addition, provisions have been added requiring the Minister responsible for the environment to consult on the planned cultivation of GMOs, including the district council, the province and the territorially competent agricultural chambers. Four amendments were adopted at the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. These were amendments of the Legislative Bureau, amendments clarifying the provisions. It should be noted that the draft law on amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms, discussed at today's Senate meeting, fully protects Poland from GMO cultivation, and the implementation of its provisions will preserve Poland's status as a country free from genetically modified varieties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u136	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Kilian volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To see the Senator rapporteur. I would like to raise two points in my question. The first point is: it is generally said that Poland is a country free from genetically modified plants. And what you're presenting... You said we were a free country. And this bill introduces a path or opens a gate that will allow this vegetation to be produced here. Because if we create a register that is kept by the Minister of Agriculture, and we show where this modified vegetation can be produced... Don't you see the contradiction between saying that Poland is a GMO-free country, that our country is free from genetically modified plants, and that we are showing in this act a path that leads to farmers being able to grow these genetically modified plants in their own place when certain conditions are met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u138	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u139	In my speech I drew attention to the fact that Poland requested that 8 types of modified maize should not be grown on its territory. And it was somehow respected, maintained. Poland, however, was not protected from cultivation of any other genetically modified plants. At the moment, such restrictions are being introduced in this law, such provisions which formally prevent, as I said, the cultivation of genetically modified varieties throughout the country. At the committee meeting And the senator has witnessed these proceedings. The Minister and invited guests also paid attention to the aspect that you were moving and even talked about a certain legal equilibrystika. On the one hand, it is as if Poland is open to this production, but at the same time there are restrictions that practically I would like to stress: practically limit the possibility of producing genetically modified varieties in Poland. Mr Sam Minister It is not present today in the Chamber, said that it is complicated, but in practice it protects our country from the introduction of GMOs into cultivation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u140	Thank you, Senator. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u141	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I understand that this contradiction is only apparent. Poland is to be free from GMOs, and at the same time it is said that such zones may arise, but this is absolutely impossible. I agree with that, but all the safeguards that we made in the bill did not convince the representatives of the social parties involved in the committee's deliberations. Well, for example. one of the safeguards was also called for the insurance of possible future crops. Such insurance would entail some enormous cost. Why did we not agree to such an additional possibility of protecting ourselves from the fact that Poland was fully free from GMOs?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u142	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u143	There have been people who have made such a request, but no senator has tabled such an amendment and has therefore not been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u144	Mr. Senator... [[Senator Rotnicka.]] Senator Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Does the microphone work? [[Voice from the room: One more time...]] [[It's working.]] It works, doesn't it? Dear rapporteur, I read this as an apparent act. Did we really have to introduce this gate to allow the introduction of some new genetically modified crops in addition to those 9 that are already listed? That's the first question. And now the other one. There may be some kind of absurd situation in which all agricultural land, if farmers agree, will be covered by the cultivation of genetically modified plants. Because if one agrees, the other agrees, the third agrees, then this area will go 30 km very far. Right? I'm talking about a ridiculous situation, but if you're saying that we're basically introducing a recipe that isn't gonna be dangerous, because no one's gonna agree to it... We don't know that for sure. The law should make it clear whether we are allowed to do something or not. And first of all, let me ask you this: did we have to introduce this gateway as a country that allows us to say that we are more liberal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u146	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u147	I've already answered Senator Kilian's question. I think the most competent minister is the minister who should give such explanations, because he was the one who pointed out this fact. The Minister admitted that this is indeed a complicated subject, but the law practically protects our country from the cultivation of genetically modified varieties. By extending my report, I would like to draw attention to the fact that indeed many people are concerned that there will be some possibility in our country. For me, it's incomprehensible. The cultivation of genetically modified varieties. Even what Senator Rotnicka picked up... These records do not give rise to the production of genetically modified varieties. Persons who are adversaries ♪ I'm here too ♪ The genetically modified varieties claimed that the new government would come and make such changes, because such changes could be made that it would be possible to grow genetically modified varieties in Poland. We're not gonna secure the laws, even though we're making different records... Because new governments are coming, new coalitions are forming and the existing laws are often changed. It is somehow a natural democracy that relies on it. I think the environments that fight and rightly With genetically modified varieties, they should make a greater effort, that is to say, to... Because perhaps the Constitution should state that Poland is a country free from genetically modified varieties. It would give us a chance to... it would be a more lasting, confident, effective and valid record for a very long time, because the constitution is not easy to change. But in order to introduce such records, one simply needs to understand and take the right approach, such a broad one. I think that if the opposition were willing and ready for such cooperation, such records could be introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u148	Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to be clear. Do these rules open a genetically modified food gate more widely than ever before? I would also go in the direction that Mrs Rotnick has appointed in her question. How much are we obliged by EU legislation to implement this? And the third thing, my attention to my meeting with the farmers of Kociewi. They say they don't use this kind of crop, but these crops will be used somewhere, perhaps with their neighbors, which will cause them, wanting to compete. They'll have better results, better profits, maybe they'll have to, no matter what they say today, move on to the production of modified food because it's more efficient. So if we open up now, we can trigger some processes that can be very dangerous. Today we see this to a limited extent, but market rules, competition rules will make other farmers have to consider whether it is simply not profitable. So I have a question, in short, if we're not opening the door to very dangerous phenomena here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u150	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u151	Please tell these farmers that under this law they will not be able to increase their yield in any way by introducing the production of genetically modified crops on their farm.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u152	Senator Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you've very cleverly come up with the answer to my insurance question. I talked to the minister who said you couldn't insure something... [[Which isn't there at all.]] ... which you won't be able to do at all. Since cultivation of GMOs will absolutely not be possible in Poland, then how can it be insured. Fiction, abstract? That was the answer. But this response did not satisfy the social side, which talked about the so-called. civil liability. Someone who's going to surgery at the hospital can be insured in case the surgery fails. And that's possible. So that some theoretical possibility of insurance for crops that could arise is. But, as I say, there is nothing to divide the hair into four, because these safeguards, which are in the bill, as the senator rightly points out, will absolutely not allow any area of cultivation of GMOs in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u154	Didn't the Minister, Senator, get out of this better than you? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u155	Senator Ryszka himself answered the first question he raised. I think he asked the Minister a question like that. That question came up at the Senate committee meeting. And indeed, the Minister's response was what Senator Ryszka actually presented at the moment. I believe the senator has replaced me as an active member of the Environment Committee. Thank you for that, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u156	Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u157	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, we may go a little beyond the borders of Poland, but we will remain in the Union. Could you tell us what the GMO case is like in Slovakia, Germany and the Czech Republic? These are our neighbors, the countries with which we are bordering. Speaking of 30 kilometers... There are protected areas. It's important what this case is like in these countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u158	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u159	At the meeting of the Senate committee we dealt mainly with the topic of Poland and the protection of Polish territory against genetically modified varieties. We have not discussed Slovakia or the Czech Republic or other countries of the European Union. [[If you don't mind, I'll redirect this question to the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u160	Sure. The Minister will prepare to answer that question. Senator Czerwiński will ask you something about the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the concept of the amendment. This is about risk assessment. Is it true that it is formulated by an entity that is trying to introduce or release GMOs? And is it true that risk assessments cannot be undermined? Is it a document? 'Cause it's gotta be treated as a document. Which nobody can really challenge, not even the Ministry? [[We're talking about this bill. Yes?]] We're talking about a threat assessment. That's the concept in the novel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u162	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u163	I didn't really understand the problem you put up, but I'm going to try to relate to it in some way. Genetically modified crops are not fully tested. It was mentioned in the Senate room. It has not been proven that such food is harmless and has no adverse effects on animal and human health. Therefore, it should be approached with caution. Today, in the Republic of Poland, we are taking action to prevent the cultivation of genetically modified varieties. On sale you can get animal feed that is genetically modified. I think the food in the stores should be marked as genetically modified. I also think that in supermarkets or hypermarkets you could get that kind of food. I didn't check it out, and I don't know. [[I'll repeat that question and ask the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u164	There you go, Mr. Senator. Say it again. [[To the Minister...]] Oh, you want to address them to the Minister. Good. Senator Rotnicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u165	Mr. Marshal, once again... Me and Mrs. Alicia Hare are sensing some fluid in the international agreement on GMOs. Our neighbors are a country that allows us to grow genetically modified vegetation. And if the distance between our crops and the border is small, then what? Are we gonna agree or are we gonna say yes? Because the condition will not be met. It may be such an unauthorized thinking, but it would be worth knowing, because then we would be sure of how much it is possible to carry out, and how much it is a good wish or even a fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u166	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u167	I think it is a good thing that two Vice-Presidents of the Senate Committee on the Environment have voiced such voices here, because this is a problem that is theoretically possible. It's a good thing we're talking about this in the presence of the Minister who's here with us. It is important to raise this issue in bilateral, bilateral relations, so that Polish crops are not contaminated with genetically modified varieties produced outside Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u168	Thank you. Senator Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u169	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, a letter like this has come to me, a protest about GMO cultivation. And here is, among other things. such a reminder of the fact that already in the years 2004-2006 all seymics of voivodships declared their willingness to create GMO-free zones and signed the relevant official documents. Thus, the whole of Poland has announced a GMO-free zone. And here's my question. Because we're making a bill like this, let's say, a little bit... Well, we write how many conditions it takes to make it grow like this, and the goal is to keep it from happening. Is it not possible in some way, simply and unambiguously to say that there is no right to cultivation of GMOs in our country? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u170	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u171	Dear Senator, I'd be in favour of that too. The government has chosen a different path, which is why we proceed with this bill. On the one hand, we prepare a register, and on the other hand we introduce restrictions that practically, not formally, but practically prevent the production of genetically modified varieties. I read here that in order for such cultivation to be possible, the consent to such production must be given by the local government, the county council, the sejmik voivodship, agricultural chambers, every citizen, every person producing within 30 km of this crop... Well, it's usually impossible for such cultivation to have a chance in our country. That's the path the government chose and I'm not discussing. That is the decision made by the Minister, and that is the law we are proceeding with.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u173	Thank you very much. I have two lines. One more is the one about boundaries. This border crossing goes much further than the mentioned 30 km and what was included in the questions. Well, as you know, And many of us live on the southern border Our farmers have fields in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic, their own fields as a result of inheritance. And they have to be there or they can do what the law of a given country, i.e. Slovakia and the Czech Republic, they allow or prohibit to grow. I don't know. And that's what I'm asking, too, if they have to sell this production on the market, for example. Czech. I don't think so, especially since this is the Schengen area and, to tell you the truth, the movement is very free. But I know a lot of people who just have fields in the Czech Republic, their own, which they didn't buy, but which they inherited. And the boundaries were already changing there in some places. Besides, people were getting married cross-border. And that problem exists. And the second question is this. I think you said I'd like you to confirm that. That anti-GMO policy is only a prudential policy. Numerous countries in the world are intensively developing and leading this production, and it is the countries that are better developed than us, and so far nothing has happened to them. So this is a typical prudential policy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u174	That's not what I said. But I will quote Minister Nowicki, Minister of the Environment, Minister of the Civic Platform. When he was Minister, he said at a meeting with the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment that GMO cultivation is an incredibly dangerous experiment. I've even written down his statement somewhere. 'Cause that was a discussion the Senate had over the previous term. And we've discussed it many times. As far as the placing on the market of genetically modified varieties is concerned, this applies particularly to fodder soybeans. From time to time in this senate room, we agree that this soy may be permitted as an addition to pig feed. And that's the decision the High House is making here. But there is strict regulation when it comes to the marketing of genetically modified material in Poland. And that's why the crops that come from the Czech Republic should find their place and development there.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u175	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Coffee milk is soy. From the test zones...]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Małgorzata Golińska, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? There you go, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to this discussion, I think I should take the floor because there are too many doubts, and I think it is worth removing these doubts from your senators. Why did we even undertake to amend the law? We did so in connection with the European Commission's complaint, which referred to the Court and accused Poland of failing to comply with the provisions of Directive 2001/18/EC. The Court was right to the European Commission by issuing its judgment in October 2014 in which it concluded that Poland had failed to fulfil its obligations under that directive. This was the absence of an obligation to notify the authorities of the location of genetically modified organisms, the absence of a record of the location of those crops and the failure to make those sites public. And now, thanking the rapporteur, who presented the provisions of the Act in very detail, it is also worth noting that it is not only in the interest of the Polish State to implement the judgment of the Court, but also in the interests of citizens who, as we know, are against GMOs in the overwhelming majority. Today, the Minister of the Environment in this Act proposes solutions which make the Polish state free of GMOs in terms of GMO cultivation in Poland. In this act, the Minister of the Environment stated that the government is obliged to create a regulation which prohibits the cultivation of a particular GMO in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the Minister of the Environment is required to submit an application to exclude the GMO concerned from cultivation throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. Since the position of the government of the Republic of Poland regarding the cultivation of GMOs in Poland is clear... Namely, the Polish government is opposed to cultivation of GMOs in Poland. At the same time, it states that, because we are a Member State, we must exercise European law. The implementation of the Court's judgment in the proposed law is also the creation of the register that you mentioned, i.e. You feared that the creation of this register was the opening of the gate; such words were spoken here. I'd say it's exactly the opposite. Today, when this issue is not regulated and we are excluded from use in Poland, as far as cultivation is concerned, only MON 810 maize, in fact all other genetically modified varieties under today's laws may be And they could still be if we did not introduce this law into the territory of Poland. And we, with insufficient checks carried out, It is estimated that there are about 100 of them per year. We can practically not even detect a threat. The Act will make the Minister first of all get the tools to control the existing crops, the legal and illegal According to the calculations of such checks, it is to be over 3,000 each year. Moreover, and I think this is the most important thing, the Minister of Environment, as well as the Council of Ministers will have to be mandatory and every day When there is an application in the European Union for a new cultivation or a variety of GMOs on behalf of the Republic of Poland to apply for exemption from the entire territory of Poland. I think this is the clou of this proposed bill. However, as we have heard during the work in the Sejm that our opponent is strong and we do not appreciate him, and that there may be a situation that if the government changes one day, the minister will change, who will have a different attitude towards GMO cultivation, then the relevant companies will be able to reach him and convince him... We must take into account the possibility that the Minister for the Environment, despite the statutory provisions, will not submit a proposal to the European Union or the Council of Ministers will not create a regulation. We are speaking absolutely abstractly now, but such comments were made during the committee meeting, especially by representatives of the social side. As this may be the case, we have created further locks to protect Poland's territory from possible introduction of GMO cultivation. These castles are precisely the required distances from the planned crop, i.e. those 30 km from the planned crop. The consent of all neighbours must be collected, and the consent of beekeepers, beekeepers, the planned cultivation must not be located more than 30 km from large nature conservation forms in Poland. I think that this is already a sufficient security, but in addition, in order for the proposal to be considered at all, it must be accompanied by positive opinions of the municipality council, the district council, the sejm council and the opinions of the agricultural chambers. I would ask that all these security features, the ones I call them, be considered together. If one of the locks doesn't work, we'll buy another one. I think that one of the very important locks is that, if anybody asks whether they intend to apply, the application must be accompanied by the results of tests confirming the safety for the environment of such cultivation. As we know, there is no such study today. So I hope I've calmed your senators down a little bit. In conclusion, I would like to say that, first of all, it was no longer possible to wait, it was not possible to delay the amendment of this law not only because of the unenforced judgment of the Court, but also because today we have unlimited access as regards the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Poland, excluding one variety of MON 810 maize. But What's really important? The article is no longer in force today. Directive 2001/18/EC. The introduction of provisions of this law allows the Polish government to apply for exemption from cultivation of a given GMO product. If such a request is to be made in the European Union, it shall be made on the basis of Article. 26b Directive. On this basis, Member States have 2 options: limitation or prohibition of cultivation. And that's what we're referring to. On my side, that's it. If there are any questions, I'll try to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions? Senator Alicia Hare and then Senator Piotr Wach. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u178	Dear Minister, we introduce this law, in connection with the judgment of the Court, obligations for Poland. We are discussing this widely because it is an important problem. I'd like you to tell me what these duties are going to look like. Because they concern the national legal order in which there must be certain documents. This bill is kind of a gateway to this and then there will be documents, that is, a notification, a register and a public notification. So we will issue a document, which will be called the Register, we will write there in Poland there is no GMO cultivation and we will provide on the websites of the relevant institutions: no GMOs are grown in Poland. I don't think it can be that we're gonna adopt this bill, and we're not gonna create these documents. This is where we had a problem at the committee meeting, and I have it now. What's next after the bill's passed? Thank you. [[The register concerns crops.]] [[There will be a register and you will write: no crops.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u179	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u180	I think the most important thing here is that it's written in the article. 49a, or that mouth. 1, which says that the Republic of Poland is free from GMO cultivation, that the rule of paragraph. 1 is implemented by the Minister's proposal, and later by a regulation of the Council of Ministers, as if it indicates that once the Minister and the Council of Ministers have fulfilled this provision, the register will be empty. As a matter of fact... The fact that the act is later registered, that someone who wants to grow in Poland is to submit an application... Once these conditions have been fulfilled, this proposal will not be considered at all, because Poland will already be protected by that proposal. Therefore, this register will be an empty register, and that is our assumption that no legal cultivation in Poland will be created. All these records, which are included in the Act, are aimed at the fact that such crops simply will not be. [[I understand, but the sentence was: creating a register of documents.]] We're making a register of this bill. And making public... If there is no crop, we will have nothing to make public. If, as I said, these 2 conditions are also met, the conclusion that could possibly be made will be left unattended. So it's not like it's gonna be... If there is no cultivation, it will not be published anywhere and there will be no information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u181	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u182	Thank you. I'm actually going to repeat some questions, maybe I'll rephrase them. But first I'm gonna say two sentences. Namely, it seems to me that the provisions introduced by this law will actually prevent the cultivation of GMOs in Poland, with the exception of borders, as we talked about. Well, there's an open case, but it's not important because of the quantity. And here's the question. I'll repeat that question. Namely, this practical ban, but I assume that according to EU legislation, cultivation of GMOs in the country is only a prudential policy, i.e. It is based on the attitude of the public and the position of the government. That's the first question: is that it? And two: do I understand that trade in genetically modified feedingstuffs is still permitted? Of course, this way of reaching man is more complicated, because by animals and protein, and it is even less studied than direct consumption of products. In any case, is it really so that the trade in genetically modified imported feedingstuffs is acceptable?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u183	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u184	Thank you so much for that question. In fact, as far as feed is concerned, it is not the subject of this law and is not even the subject of work or is simply not subject to the resort of the environment. As far as the prudential approach is concerned, it is. If we hadn't introduced all the requirements I was talking about, those 30 km, the consents of neighbors, beekeepers, etc., etc., then the application for registration would only contain information to the applicant about who the applicant is, the address of the intended crop, what variety he would like to grow, and actually other obligations or restrictions to such an application would not have been. We also wanted to show strongly that if someone tries to bypass one of these locks in any way, he will always come across the next castle and consequently will never be able to drive such cultivation legally in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm asking for any answer, so I can understand the perverse course of this legislation. The goal is to make so many locks that we don't grow them. Right? Are we not going to risk ourselves, or are we not going to get, say, from the European Union, from the tribunal again the accusation that we are not opening the door to GMO cultivation? And when there are so many castles, why can't there be one simple writing: we in Poland do not want GMO cultivation. And then an army of officials and documents would fall off, and many, many sysiphic jobs, unnecessary work, work that doesn't serve anybody any good. Why isn't there one simple record, we just have to make things so complicated? I can't understand it. Thank you very much. [[Andrzej, it's like when it says, don't steal.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: As if...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u187	Quiet, please. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u188	The Directive does not allow a ban on each crop, variety or group of GMO varieties to be imposed from the top. That's not gonna happen. As far as I know, she has exercised this right in Austria and has met with the judgment of the tribunal. There is no way to enter one sentence, to write that Poland is free from GMOs, and at that end the law. The Directive indicates that every time a new application for a new variety or group of varieties of GMOs is submitted, a Member State has the right to object, but this must be done every time a new application is submitted in the European Union. In order to be able to raise such an objection, we must have the appropriate tools and this law gives us such tools, i.e. it indicates who is obliged to submit this proposal, if not the Minister, it is to be issued a regulation of the Council of Ministers, etc. As far as the register is concerned, as I said, it is the execution of the judgment of the tribunal. We assume that this ledger will be empty because we will have such sharpenings. And of course, as I said, we could remove all these locks, but then the proposal could be very simple, and if one day a minister didn't file a motion for exclusion, or the Council of Ministers, who wouldn't issue a regulation, other locks wouldn't work anymore and it would be a showcase. [[Unless, after leaving the Union...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u189	Thank you very much. [[...or after Brexit...]] [[Sorry, I wanted to say that this interesting institution is the European Union.]] [[You didn't know that?]] Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the Minister, so I'll ask you two questions so that it doesn't get away with it. The first question is that which I put to the representative of the committee, but I did not get a clear answer, so I will repeat it. Both the mother's law exists, as well as the amendment appears And I'm gonna talk about it in a second. The risk assessment body shall take into account the risk assessment referred to in Who formulates this threat assessment? And after it's shown, is it possible to challenge it, and if so, by what authority? That's the first line. And the second point, à speaking of locks. Let's take care of lock one. Art. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Well, that's the kind of castle that already exists. So the question is, why the rest of the bill? I'd like to know if it's a lock that can be opened with some kind of lock or not. As for the next castles, to be continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u191	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u192	As regards the risk assessment, it is carried out by the applicant, but all Member States may comment on the risk assessment and the Member State in which the crop is to be planned shall have the right to verify the application and shall issue an evaluation report after verification. This may be a negative report, it may be a positive report, but even if this report is positive in the European Union on this proposal... Our law and our provisions will make it possible that even in the case of a proposal that has been granted within the framework of the European Union on the ground The Polish variety will not be allowed to be grown, because the Minister of the Environment will object to this variety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u193	For now, we're talking about a threat assessment. On the basis of which exactly our country's article can object to such a threat rather than another threat assessment? I'd like a legal basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u194	As far as the legal basis is concerned, I will answer you in writing. Now I can't point to it. [[Well, there's a problem.]] There was another question about this castle. Rzeczpospolita Poland is free from GMO cultivation. And here we go again about whether or not we can end up on that statement. Under EU law, we cannot conclude on this statement. The EU directive does not give us the opportunity and the right to state that Poland is GMO-free and that this is an effective opposition for all varieties that can still be reported in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u195	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski. Then there's Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. The 30 kilometers you've exchanged seem like a long distance. But where does that come from? Does this set-up distance of 30 km result from any tests, or was it so voluntary? That's point one. And line two. I'm referring here to what Senator Wach was talking about. In a situation in which we are cautiously adopting such solutions, so that genetically modified plants cannot be cultivated in Poland... Shouldn't there be an initiative on the part of the government that doesn't also bring in feed? I know that this law does not apply and that I am going beyond the law with this question, but I am signaling whether there is also a need for a certain consistency and careful handling of feed as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u197	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u198	As far as feed is concerned, Although I do not wish to speak on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture I believe that we should also introduce regulations limiting GMOs in Poland. As for the distance the senator asked about, originally, the project had a distance of three kilometers. This was due, as I recall, to research into the transfer of pollen by bees. However, during the discussion in the Sejm this distance was gradually increased, first to 10 km and finally to 30 km, also because all the time farmers and representatives of the social side were concerned that these primary distances were insufficient in terms of securing the territory of Poland, and that there could always be a gap. The 30 km was a proposal from the social side, which was agreed by the Ministry. This amendment was accepted by Members of the Joint Parliamentary Committees, and I think that this also results in greater peace on the part of social organisations. [[There is no such area in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u199	Thank you very much. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why am I so inquiring about this threat assessment and the possibility of touching it? Like I said, I didn't find the possibility of such emotion in my mother's bill during a cursory view. The Minister says it's a possibility. Perhaps, but now we enter castle two. Because I understand that the first castle is declarable and cannot be used as a stand-alone law. Well, that's the Union. We'll get to that in a minute too. The second castle is a regulation... or, in fact, a ban on the placing on the market of GMO products on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers. 49c paragraph. 1. And everything would be fine, but any ban has to do with it that you can, I would call it, rip out his teeth. I'll give you my lips. 2: The ban cannot be introduced... I don't care about that mouth. One for now. The prohibition must not undermine the risk assessment. In short, let's assume that someone is introducing GMOs, wants to grow something in our home and finds that there are no risks. Ladies and gentlemen, the paper will accept everything, and we can't ban it by motivating it with threats, because that's what the bill says. Isn't that a logical contradiction to you? Doesn't that just break the teeth of that ban, that castle? Not much, in the same mouth. 2 we read that this ban must not affect the rules of free circulation of GMO products. Ladies and gentlemen, any prohibition infringes the principle of free circulation of products, by definition itself. If something is forbidden, freedom is violated. Maybe I'm misunderstood, maybe there's some other signage of the word "prohibition." That's two broken teeth. The next tooth is the mouth. 4. The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation either as transmitted to the European Union or as amended in accordance with the opinion of the European Commission. The question is, when do you want it to be like this and when do you want it to be like this? If the European Commission says it doesn't qualify, should we consider it or not? Third tooth broken, third tooth gone. Fourth tooth. Keep your notes, Minister. The prohibition cannot be imposed solely on grounds of... There's talk of mouth. Point 1 (7) and this condition is very simple: public policy objectives. I understand that Poles believe that... Well, they do not want to have GMOs on their territory, in Poland. This is the demand of Poles, this is the position of the majority of society. And that's public policy, but that's what you can't plead for. And that's the castle with the four teeth broken. Please respond to this lock first, and then we'll get to the next one.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u201	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u202	The subject you were talking about concerns the premises that were introduced into the bill. The ban could be justified by environmental policy objectives, planning and spatial planning, land use, socio-economic impacts, the need to exclude unintended presence of GMOs in other products, agricultural policy prices and public policy objectives. These are the restrictions resulting from the Directive. This isn't something we put here ourselves as a ministry. Such provisions shall be indicated by the Union Directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u203	Excuse me, Minister. We're back to logic. Explain that to me. If entity X wants to place on the market any of its products I don't know how to explain it more simply. This is presented in the brochure titled: an assessment of the risk that this product will not adversely affect our environment. And we know this is bullshit. It's just that it's not going to be negative. How can we undermine this threat assessment? 'Cause notice. I'm gonna say it again. That in accordance with paragraph 2. 2 our ban must not undermine the risk assessment of that entity. It's easy, isn't it? I really do understand and appreciate your goodwill, but for this good will to have an effect, it has to be consistent. Right now, I am explaining how you, as Minister, are going to refer to an entity who will perform a threat assessment, let's call it positive for this entity. You won't be able to question her. And if you can't question her, you won't be able to issue such a ban because she's clearly talking about it. 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u204	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u205	What's written in the directive... I keep going back to the subject of the directive and the records you were talking about. What else is an assessment of the impact of the threat on the application submitted to the European Union, and what else is an application for cultivation in Poland. These are two different things. Our application for entry in the register contains or should contain studies confirming that there is no impact on environmental safety. And that's a completely different subject than evaluation. What was the senator talking about? A new variety of GMOs that could be carried out within the European Union. Let me repeat once again: if a new manufacturer's request affects the European Union, let's call it so colloquially, for the introduction, i.e. for the authorisation of a new GMO variety, we as Poland, a Member State of the European Union, have the right to comment on this risk assessment. The Member State concerned shall have the right not only to comment but also to draw up an evaluation report and shall be obliged to call for that assessment to be completed. But even if one of the Member States issues a positive report, it's our internal rules. It is not a directive, it is our law that causes that this variety of GMOs will not be allowed to be cultivated further in Poland. These are 2 different applications and 2 different modes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u207	If you don't mind, Miss Marshal, High Izbo... I know I'm becoming a pain in the ass, but some things... I'm not a member of the committee, and I couldn't listen to an explanation at the committee meeting. The whole legislative rule: the same thing... So if you use the phrase "risk assessment," it should mean an act and another act should be marked with a different name. Because right now you're saying that two different acts or documents or institutions are the same name... But let's just leave it at that. I said four teeth, you were trying to explain one thing... Let's get another lock. I mean, it's a 30-kilometer limit, very valuable. I think it's a very good hit... I mean. Very good defense. But the question is, why not 100 kilometers? If the EU is adopting resolutions on us or imposing directives on us that are meaningless I think we've come to this conclusion together. Why should we treat the Union in a meaningful manner? Why not increase this distance enough to by definition block the possibility of introducing or releasing, as it is formally called, GMOs. Why isn't there a greater distance? That's one thing. Secondly, when we talk about opinions, no opinion is decisive. Please note that the opinion may be negative Let's assume the municipalities or the farmhouses. The government's gonna do whatever it wants anyway... Wrong government. I don't suspect you of that, because here I am sure of good faith. It's about effectiveness. [[Question, Mr. Senator. There are other senators who want to ask questions.]] The question is, shouldn't the opinion be decisive here? I mean, if the opinion is negative, it doesn't have GMOs, and if it's positive, it is. That's it. It's just that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u208	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u209	Okay, I'm just gonna find a way to... maybe I'll start with this increased distance. Well, we too, as if we can't risk taking action in the European Union because we're breaking the provisions of the directive. If we were to introduce... We need to be a little cunning about what we want to bring in. Because since the directive does not allow us to ban directly all over Poland, the introduction of e.g. A few hundred kilometers away, it is as if we are exposing ourselves to the European Union. And that is the subject that social organisations at the joint committee meeting spoke about quite often, but there is still EU proceedings on us, we must implement the directive and our laws must comply with EU law. Introducing so far-reaching... Otherwise, the discovery of such a distance of several hundred kilometres causes us to face the charge of violating European Union law. It's a little... I know it's a little... [[What about this positive opinion? If you don't mind...]] Now. I am not going to point out to you now, I am going to find out exactly which article... The proposal is accompanied by the opinions of the commune council, the county council, the sejmik council, and if one of these opinions is a negative opinion, this means that it is the exclusion of further proceedings, the proposal must be dealt with negatively. [[The whole world...]] [[Voice from the hall: And landowners...]] And the consent of landowners, all landowners of neighboring land. [[Yeah, neighbors.]] [[Neighbors.]] And the 30 km we're talking about doesn't count from the middle of the crop. And this is also important, because this also very often appeared at the meeting of the Joint Sejm Committees: what if the planning GMO cultivation buys up a lot of land within how many kilometers and actually he gives himself permission? No, we count 30 km from the land limit of the owner, not from the middle of the crop, and not from any other place.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u210	Thank you very much. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have the impression, I suppose we all have the impression that there is some logical breach here, and my question is actually about the consequences of this logical breach. Because, on the one hand, we want to ban it, and on the other hand, we need to implement a directive that does not allow it to be prohibited. In this way, it is in the most simplistic way. So my question or two questions are yes. First of all, how big a guarantee can you give that it will really be impossible to get those holes or holes that Senator Czerwiński was talking about? Isn't it true that if someone shows their expertise and shows... that if the only argument against it is that it just doesn't like it, then it's gonna be necessary to allow such a request and give consent? Isn't the risk of such a situation big and how much do you think it is? Because I understand that it has to exist, so that this law falls within the framework of the directive, it is as if there is some logic. And my second question is this. Are these our aspirations and applause for a few hundred kilometers of safety belt, but even without that... Are those provisions which, according to your opinion, in practice prevent such cultivation, and such a law will not become of interest to the European Commission, the trial before the Court and will not be considered as simply contrary to the Directive? Because in my opinion, logic doesn't give us a third chance to look at it. Or it's a guarantee. not growing GMOs, or... And if that's the case, then we're in conflict with the directive, or at least with her idea, the spirit. Right? Because every piece of legislation, except for the letter, has, so to speak, a ghost. If that were the case, there's no doubt we'll be in the crosshairs. And the third question... maybe not so much a question as a reflection, or actually a question. Isn't there an idea for the Polish government to initiate a process at European Union level to ensure that those rules imposing the possibility of cultivation of GMOs in the Union change? I think that at the moment allies could be found in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, you're on your way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u213	As for this third suggestion, I cannot answer the senator on behalf of the representatives of the European Parliament... [[But I'm asking about the government's position.]] I think that all actions that could even better secure not only the territory of Poland, but the whole territory of the European Union, will always be a step in the right direction. With regard to this risk, these 30 km, such arguments also occurred at the meeting of the Joint Sejm Committees. It has been said that an extension, an increase in this distance, could put us at risk from the European Union. Members as if with full awareness took this risk and extended this distance to 30 km to give a guarantee And that's a reference to the first question. In Poland, following the introduction of the provisions of this law, no GMO will be legally allowed to be grown.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like you to identify a provision of a directive which expressly prohibits Poland from introducing a ban on GMOs. And the insurance issue. Why can't we decide on mandatory insurance... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: May I ask one more time...]] Why can't we decide on mandatory insurance? However, this would provide a guarantee, because there would not be an insurer who would decide to insure these crops because it is virtually impossible to separate natural crops from GMO crops. This is where they say 30 kilometers. After all, there are wind-dust plants that travel to much greater distances, etc. Wouldn't insurance be a guarantee leading to a de facto lack of cultivation of GMOs in Poland? And one more question about GMO cultivation for experimental or experimental purposes. Because it is possible in Poland, I understand. Yes? I would like to know what units of such crops have in their resources and in which areas the cultivation is currently being carried out for experimental purposes. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u216	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u217	The question about closed use, because, I understand... the closed use, because that's what the senator asked, is the act of genetic modification of organisms or the conduct of cultures of genetically modified organisms and the operation of storage and transport within a genetic engineering plant. These are bets where you can make closed use. [[Where are such establishments located in Poland, Minister?]] Oh, it's about where, where... [[Yes. And what do they have...]] [[These are research institutes.]] [[But that could be a written reply, Minister. I didn't ask you to do it now.]] I thought I was gonna trade you... Good. [[I understand it would be difficult to replace them now.]] [[Research institutes.]] Why is this closed use... It's worth talking about, too. Because in the course of scientific work conducted in closed systems can... They are conducted to obtain organisms that can be used for example as pharmaceuticals. That's an important topic too. Hence the position of Poland, which supports such closed use. [[It's still a financial issue.]] This will be in writing. As far as insurance is concerned, there was some information. At the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committees, the Sejm legislators indicated that if we were to think about introducing such insurance at all, this would have to be included not in this law. It would have to be written down in separate, separate regulations. It was also noted that if there is no cultivation yet... It's hard to insure something that isn't there. I would like to draw your attention to one more topic. There was a certain expectation during the committee meeting. If for those who plan to grow GMOs, an insurance order would be introduced, then why not make the same requirement so-called. organic farmers, for example because of the increased risk of mushroom diseases? I'd be careful here. Of course, if it is the will of Parliament to introduce such provisions in a separate insurance law, we will lean on it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 concerning free circulation is the provision that: without prejudice to the provisions of Article. 23 Member States may not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market of GMOs as or in the composition of products which comply with the requirements laid down in this Directive. [[But the spin...]] No. Rotation to grow is exactly what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Małgorzata Golińska: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to reply in writing to the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Czesław Ryszka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I was a little disappointed by the lack of emotion during the discussion and questioning, the lack of doubt about the bill. The interesting thing is that it is different here than in the Sejm, where the opposition attacked the government and the Law and Justice terribly, she said that during the election campaign Poland was promised GMO-free, while this law opens up the possibility to carry out such crops. In the Seym, the opposition tried to undermine this bill, and here we had very interesting questions from the Senators of Law and Justice. The answers to them deepened our knowledge of the bill. And unlike in the Seym, where the opposition behaved recklessly, we had here a substantive discussion on this subject. I think that many of us have opened our eyes to the fact that this law does not give us the possibility to grow GMOs in Poland, but vice versa. It is, as the Minister dared to say, a certain game with the European Union, because the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2014 requires the establishment in our national legal order of provisions which, I remind you, concern, firstly, the obligation to notify the competent authorities of the location of GMO crops, secondly, the establishment of a register of such sites, and thirdly, to make it public. Well, we can't run away from that, that's a requirement. But it is clear that this European Union directive does not directly require the introduction of GMO crops. But at the same time, it does not allow them to be banned completely. Therefore, what has already been said here, if, as the senator proposed here, we put in the bill that Poland prohibits GMO cultivation, then we would expose ourselves to the opening, so to speak, of a new front of allegations of a lack of rule of law in Poland. Therefore, this law does not very cleverly prohibit the cultivation of GMOs, but lays down conditions for the adoption of this decision, which are in practice impossible to comply with. I'll allow myself to sort things out and say in my own words what it looks like when it comes to bans and lack of opportunity... Namely, it is stated here that the refusal to enter cultivation in the GMO crop register occurs where the Minister responsible for Agriculture refuses to do so when the entry is refused by the council of the municipality, district or sejm of the voivodship or where the documentation submitted by the applicant does not take into account the impact on environmental safety or human health. So, specifically, if someone wanted to plant such modified maize or rape, they would first have to test whether such cultivation would harm other living organisms, with particular regard to those existing in Natura 2000 areas, and this would mean a long-term study of the effects of GMOs on thousands of species, which is probably impossible in practice. Moreover, according to the law, such cultivation could be carried out within a distance, as it is written here, 30 km From protected areas: national parks, human residences. Well, if you look at the map of Poland, this area for GMO cultivation will not be found. So that we do not need to increase this number of kilometers to 100, it has already been verified that these 30 kilometers is a sufficient distance. In addition, the consent of all natural persons living within the 30 km radius should also be obtained. The lack of consent of only one person already eliminates such cultivation. So that these and other provisions in practice exclude the possibility of these crops. So, in conclusion, it can be said that Poland will continue to be free from GMO cultivation. However, there is a problem of food safety coming from countries where such crops exist. Well, that's because our country is free from planting genetically modified plants to the ground, since we're bringing... There are even millions of tons of feed containing GMO seeds: soya, rape or maize. And our animals are fed this feed that contains GMO seeds. And this meat, of course, hits our tables. And this law allows, the seed law of 2012, revised by the previous government of PO-PSL. It is a pity that, in the light of current law, there is no need to label food produced on the basis of GMO seeds. I know that the Ministry of Agriculture is preparing a proposal for legal changes to create a system for labelling GMO-free products in Poland or produced without the use of genetically modified organisms. Certainly, the introduction of such labelling will improve food safety and quality. It's also the direction of production... I read, for example, that massacres don't know if they buy meat from animals that were either not. Feeded with feed containing GMOs. Therefore, I think that such labelling systems for food free from genetically modified organisms, which already exist in many countries and are working perfectly there, should also be introduced with us. Moreover, the law also allows for the creation of a single food safety authority. Currently there are 5 different entities subject to different departments, because it is the State Sanitary Inspection, Veterinary Inspection, Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, Commercial Inspection and the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection. Surely the regulations here are not consistent, there is some chaos of competence. In recent years, I will remind you, there have been scandals, real food scandals, e.g. Road salt was used as a preservative for meat, it was forging egg dried, there were cases with contaminated milk powder, with horse meat instead of beef... Surely some such or similar undiscovered criminal activities are functioning also now. That is why this law is very important, because it will also allow for control in this area. That's another line. It would be much more important to promote And this is also an appeal to the ministries of health-enhancing food, it is important to encourage the purchase of organic, regional, traditional food, which, of course, is essentially GMO-free. A new law needs to be developed which will further facilitate the direct sale of agricultural products. We already have such a right, but there are still not enough opportunities for agricultural production to do so. Various new opportunities for better promotion of such foods should therefore be developed. What else is important in the new GMO law? It is said that there are illegal GMO crops in Poland, that there are some farms in which, say, there is normal maize on several meters, and there is still corn in which there are GMO seeds. With regard to this, the law allows very strict checks on breaches of the rules and allows us to avoid such opportunities as to allow traditional varieties to be planted on the outskirts of the field, and in the middle It's modified. Well, enough to say that if in some area, as it's already been said here... [[Time, Senator, time.]] ...farming using such genetically modified organisms appears, it is not right to be organic farming. These two systems can't coexist. This leads to contamination of organic crops through GMOs, and ultimately to destruction of this most human-friendly method of food production. So far, security has been At least that's what we used to say. Only on paper, checks were only random. But this law introduces very restrictive checks on GMO crops, which have not yet been implemented on a large scale in Poland. The competent authority in these matters will be the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. This inspection has experience, has well-trained staff, will have the possibility to test seed for the detection of genetically modified varieties, e.g. corn. Of course, this control will cover all voivodships, supervision will be substantive, etc. Plus... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. That is exactly what this law is needed for, introducing and rigorous checks, and high criminal sanctions. Perhaps these GMO protection buffers are still insufficient, but at this point there is only so much that can be done, that is all. But it should be made clear that the law clearly protects Poland from uncontrolled introduction of GMO cultivation and work on GMOs for experimental, research purposes, and also talks about informing the public fully of such possible actions. Personally, I hope that the GMO cultivation zone mentioned in the Act will never arise, and I also hope that food producers and consumers will mature, that we will promote and consume only organic food as Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u220	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the opportunity to speak on a matter in which we have been preaching and preaching for many years... Law and Justice said that Poland is to be free from GMOs, and today we are discussing amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and some other laws, through which we want to adapt to European Union law. This is a directive that the Union is imposing on us, and this battle has been going on for many years. I remember we've been discussing this here in the Senate for at least a few years. We have had many conferences, many discussions on this subject and we have always fled as soon as possible, so that we do not implement this right, so that Poland is not a country in which genetically modified plants are grown. I must say that in this fight we were not alone, we had allies such as Italians, Hungarians or Austrians. I am talking about these leading countries, because it is impossible to mention all those who were opponents in the European arena, in Parliament, in the European Commission and in many, many other forums, national or foreign, where this discussion was increasingly taking place. I must admit that this has given rise to a sound, and it is quite large, because the European Commission has begun to retreat. The change that took place in 2015 showed that countries actually have an impact on whether they will grow genetically modified crops in their territory or whether there will be a ban. This change allowed it and Poland is taking advantage of it. An emerging new crop, which the European Union allows through the AFS's research, is a European institution that allows it to do so... And it was effectively blocked. And today we can say that there are still no genetically modified crops in Poland. There may be some uncontrollable cases, but you can generally say Members, senators and others often apply for such evidence, research There are no such statements. Therefore, we say that there is no such crop. If there's no such crop, then why all the fuss? As I said before, since we already have so much, I would say open fronts with the European Commission, at every turn they soul us... I don't want to exchange all this anymore. The Polish government took this initiative. As I remember, Minister Szyszko had preached this proposal even during the previous rule of law and justice. He submitted it now. It was Minister Szyszko who implemented... And this is the project that Minister Szyszko prepared. He talked about it many times, still for the Law and Justice. It seems that in this matter which the Sejm has already adopted and which we are debating today, there are plenty of safeguards that limit the possibility of such crops. But you can't say there's a total ban here. Because that's not how it's gonna work. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever you come up with, no one can find 100 percent security. It's impossible. Poles can find some circumvention, changing authorities, governments, parliaments can also change, but... There's no such thing as we're 100% We'll protect ourselves. We should not say publicly that this is a 100% security, because the European Commission will have arguments and will challenge the Court that we have created something, in advance assuming that it was created to prevent... That's the kind of justification you can't write, because it's just against... And they can pull it out right away. In Parliament, you can't say it's a 100 percent security, because you can't introduce it, and we don't introduce it. As I say, that's not an option. But we want to register, we want to keep an eye on it. And here were the questions whether there was an initiative in the European Union. I stress that there is an initiative from many countries that want a Europe free of GMOs. And what was changed in 2015 was one of those actions, given governments the opportunity to take... What can we do to protect more? Well, it's a consumer matter. The basic thing is consumer awareness, and it is consumers who say that it is precisely because of fear, with caution... The Minister may say that there is a precautionary principle in medicine. But the Americans keep telling us, and they want to convince Europe that this is to be proven in research. We're here to prove that it's okay, not the one that makes it, to prove that it's harmless. This is the American thinking that's trying to push us into Europe. We're defending ourselves for prudential reasons. You have to prove it, just like in medicine. I think here the Minister himself would like to say that we should not allow all these things or in most cases for prudential reasons. And I hope for so many years, all those years we've been fighting... It'll give us a chance. I hope that the awareness of consumers as well as the awareness of farmers... We are not talking about the total exclusion of GMOs, because in terms of modification of GMOs, and here we have already divided into so-called. Red, blue, green, etc... So in medicine it is valid, in laboratory, in Poland it is used, in laboratory and in medicine, but we cannot afford to release it into the environment because it has no control over it. In the lab, you can stop it, even though it might slip away, but what happens to the soil, what we contaminate the ground... that can never be reversed. Hence such strong actions were, are and will be. I can talk. It's on behalf of the farmers, I can say I've already told you many times. On behalf of my organization, the agricultural Solidarity, and many others who are fighting to prevent it from happening, and convince farmers not to want to grow it. The alternative is a ban that introduced... That was my amendment, tabled some years ago. And all the time we introduce vacathio legis, we extend that there is no provision that plants, genetically modified feeds can be used in Poland. It's extended, it's recently been extended again for two years, the Minister of Agriculture again says he wants to extend. We are talking about an alternative, about the fact that you need to introduce your plant protein, which will be used in Poland, as has been used for centuries, and you do not need to import 2 million t of genetically modified soybean for our producers. Except we're still colliding with this fight. The international industry, the multinationals are pressing, the experts are calculating how much it will be, how much it will be, how much it will be if you bring in the feed that is GMO soybean and the feed that is soy without GMOs. They calculate that this is approx. 6 and 8 grams per kilogram of savings on such feed. Recently there was such a big lecture, a conference of the Minister of Agriculture and it was shown that it was 6 gr. And I ask you, how much a farmer loses at the so-called. Waiver? 15% , 20%, 30%, 40% , yes, in one market swing. And lately, farmers have also... The prices of the cattle fell because market fluctuations caused China to stop taking 30% pork. Just one pull, China blocked, that's 30% of the European market, and that caused a huge fall in the price of pork. Then what are we fighting for? About 6 gr, 8 gr, or 10 gr? Whether it's the differences between the stock games or the world's economics that make us fall... Our role and role of the Minister of Agriculture, who is not here today, but we repeat this repeatedly, is to protect ourselves with their products, which will be grown in Poland. My fellow farmers grow soya in Poland, soya, which is not genetically modified soybean, and they already have quite a high yield. These are crops of 4 t per hectare, 3 t per hectare per year, which already allows economically grown soybeans to improve the agrarian structure of soils. So this is a chance to create your own protein. In tradition, we've had weed, we've had different beavers, and so on, you can change it, just to make the feed industry want... Hence we urge in our concept to introduce the so-called. the national indicator that we would define We call it a lot of things. The obligation to use our plant, non-genetically modified feed, which would be used by companies which today decide on the feed market. In the case of fuels, could this be introduced? You could, in the case of fuels, have an indicator that determines how much you can add such or other substances, so that you don't use only minerals, but also use organic substances. So if you could just... Here you can find many solutions, which will also allow us in Poland to improve this structure, allow us to use our products and give money to Polish farmers and not just import from the outside. I think this is an initiative that was often mentioned here, mentioning that the Polish government is working in this direction. And the institute that is currently investigating these varieties shows what new varieties we can introduce in Poland. Because once it was impossible to grow, as you remember, corn for seeds, and today in Poland, when changing these genetic varieties, which are a natural change, genetic engineering... [[Voice from the room: Transgenic.]] Not transgenic, I repeat. There's a difference, and we often don't remember that. [[Time, Senator, time.]] You can grow corn for seeds in Poland today, and a similar solution will also be used, I hope, in a short time. For more varieties of soya and other protein crops, which will eliminate the production of... And we Poles, consumers, have the right to benefit from this and we should strive to label these products, as do dairy companies today, which say that milk comes from non-fed cows. We urge the government to take such an initiative as to commit itself to marking, because this allows consumers to choose. It is up to consumers to decide, not companies that only profit by bringing our cheap labour out of Poland or forcing us to work slavely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u222	Thank you. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking on a matter that actually does not belong to my core area, because I believe that this discussion is important and that this law is also important. What I know for sure and what I've encountered, and what is the basis of this law, is, I would say, a prudent approach to various technologies and their application. It occurs in various fields. In the Council of Europe, I have dealt with this on several occasions, and that is exactly what I would like to say about this law as well. Well, as far as this prudential approach is concerned, the whole world and us, too. This applies to all It is characterised by a lack of consistency in the procedure. There are areas where we actually try to apply it quite rigorously, and there are areas where we do not apply it, and it should be applied. I'm just gonna name a few of them. Today we are talking about food, about genetically modified crops, but the same should be applied to the use of nuclear energy. Here the line of reasoning was completely different, completely different. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, in this area, in energy, I know a little bit. This sequence of events was due to the fact that nuclear energy It was first used militaryly. This threshold was exceeded before the precautionary principle could be applied, but please note that nuclear disasters in the case of fuel production, fuel transport, and in particular in the case of nuclear reactors in power plants, are very few. They are rare, but there are, and each of them generally has quite severe and very long-term effects. However, after each disaster, conclusions are drawn, as is the case for example. in aviation, and further safeguards are put in place that threaten technology but at the same time increase safety. This is the case with nuclear energy. There is another area that is being discussed a lot in view of human health. Fortunately, it's quite reversible, at least in time. This is the use of very high frequency electromagnetic fields, fortunately weak. This is about cell phones and virtually all the communications we're using right now, individual communications. Using both phones and tablets here and everywhere, we also use a very high frequency of giga electromagnetic waves. Their effect on organisms to some extent is studied, but in principle incomplete. We don't take a prudential approach here either. As far as GM crops are concerned, the fact is that it is very difficult to withdraw from this, and here Senator Chróścikowski was probably right when he said that these effects are far-reaching and difficult to reverse. In this case, this caution is required, and here we go this way. I have nothing against it or against the bill and, of course, I will not protest, but I would like to say that I personally would be in favour of genetically modified crops. I think this bill is rational. She is rational in that sense that she does not impose an absolute ban, and that is rational also for political reasons. I agree with those 30 km, and I agree with the fact that it is impossible to say and it should not be said that there is a total ban. But I believe that the legal cultivation of genetically modified crops under this law, which would enter into force, will certainly be very, very difficult. These safeguards are virtually insurmountable, in many cases practically insurmountable. And that's probably the right barrier if we assume that we agree with the will of the majority of society and agree with the precautionary approach. I personally don't have that far-reaching reservations. I was persuaded by an American embassy sales advisor. The Americans are definitely for it and they are very much promoting their technology in this area. She was a person who grew and introduced this technology in the United States for industrial purposes as far as modified maize is concerned. There is no doubt that especially when biofuels seemed to be important The European Union is actually against it, in this particular case this maize was ideally suited for this, unlike any other source of energy. There's no question about that. For this reason, such an approach as the government has proposed in the bill under review today, namely the setting of very high barriers, very difficult to overcome, and not an absolute ban, seems to be the best solution, the best for a few reasons. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, this discussion that is going on here, and these questions that have been asked, show that this is a good solution. Possible GMO supporters consider this to be an absolute ban, and their opponents believe that these safeguards are weak. This shows that the proposed solution, under the conditions we are talking about, is probably optimal. The absolute prohibition from a rational point of view does not make sense that the prohibition on specific new introduced varieties is more reasonable. We do not know what will happen, we do not know what will be the need, nor do we know what properties and evidence will exist in the case of a specific, single crop that can be proposed and which, for competitive reasons or safety reasons, might be needed, hypothetically, of course. So that I think that's the solution... If someone accepts that we do not want GMOs, that we are very, very careful and that, at the same time, we do not want such an approach which introduces an absolute ban that is unacceptable from the point of view of European law, but also irrational from a practical point of view... This law, to some extent, is trying to cut open the Gordian knot, and it is doing so to some extent. So I think... And I think that's where the voices were. That's how I understood Mr. Ryszka, who said he'd prefer things to be different, but it's still pretty good. I'd say it's pretty good. And if we accept that we don't want to... In fact, we would need to support this bill. I would be less forbidding, less forbidding, but this is a prudential approach I fully understand, and I believe that in the case of such a common thing as food of plant origin, it is possible to agree that these reservations are sufficient, but quite far-reaching. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u224	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha Council on 8 December 2012. The text of the Act is contained in print No 732, and the report of the Commission In print No 732 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Piotr Wach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u225	Thank you very much. I happen to be performing once in a while, but on a completely different matter. The Sejm passed this bill authorising ratification on 8 February. The committees adopted it on 13 February this year. As regards the Doha amendments to the Kyoto climate summit protocol, they introduce regulations related to the further second commitment period for this protocol. The Protocol was adopted in 1997. At the beginning of 2013, these provisions should be renewed, hence the Doha Protocol. In fact, the most important element is the amendment of Annex B, which introduces a number of modifications to practical behaviour as regards the provisions of the climate conference. We didn't exactly study this at the committee meeting. But, more specifically, it involves expanding the number of countries, creating a new list of countries that will apply to this provision, as well as a small extension of the list of greenhouse gases covered by the Convention and further reduction arrangements for greenhouse gases, for which commitments are set as a percentage of emissions from the base period or from the reference year, so this is concreteisation. For Poland on this occasion there is also one change, probably important. During this first period of Kyoto, we have made commitments individually as a country, and now we will actually do so of our own free will within the European Union. So we are as part of the EU's commitments and, together with the Union, determine what percentage of these commitments apply to us. There's a change here. It should be said that the period of validity of this Doha amendment covers the period from the beginning of 2013 to the end of 2020, so we are actually in the middle of this period. The provisions of this amendment have not yet entered into force. They will enter into force when it is ratified by at least 144 countries, and that has not yet happened. I understand that the Polish government probably In addition to the fact that it has substantive reasons The aim is also for Poland to be a full signatory of the Doha Amendment before the climate summit in Katowice. We don't want to be then, I think, for both substantive and formal reasons. In addition to the group of countries which have ratified this amendment, among those countries which make it not yet in force. I understand that very well. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, it actually went without any greater emotions. After a few questions, the committee unanimously supported the proposal for a law without amendments. I would like to say that we are doing this ratification in the Senate for the second time. The ratification of the Doha Amendment was already adopted by the Sejm and the Senate in 2015, but was vetoed by President Duda. The reason for this veto and the justification for this veto was that it has a clear social and economic impact which has not been sufficiently explained. This problem was not discussed in the committee, but I will end by asking the Minister 'Cause that question didn't come up at the committee meeting. The extent to which these doubts regarding the effects of the national signature of this amendment, the entry into force of this Doha amendment, have been resolved during this period of 2 years. The point is to be convinced that this time President Duda will sign this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u226	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators have that question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Minister Paweł Salek, Secretary of State, Representative of the Government for Climate Policy. Do any of the ministers wish to speak on this bill? You're welcome. Please, Minister. Maybe there'll be some questions for you, too? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Senators! Just a few words on the ratification of the Doha Amendment. It is about continuity connected with the implementation of Polish climate policy by the state also within the European Union. This is an amendment that covers the 2013 to 2020 accounting period. Of course, I agree with what the senator, Prof. Wach, has said, is that it is also important in terms of implementation, preparation of the climate summit in Katowice, the biggest meeting, the biggest, one can say, the UN event. This year we will host the summit in Katowice, in the heart of Polish industry, as well as a place where the implementation of sustainable development policy, transformation to a low-carbon economy can be shown very well. To answer the questions of your professor, the senator, I would like to say that these financial consequences have been re-examined by us. In addition, studies by the Institute for Environmental Protection have also been carried out on this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u228	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Yes. Professor, Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u229	Thank you very much. The Minister was kind in principle to answer the questions I put at the end of this reporting, but please tell me: do these analyses, which have been done during this period, almost two years, show any concrete effects or no negative effects? I understand that the approach has changed a bit, that things, so to speak, environmental are on the agenda higher than before, I think. But please say: to what extent, more specifically, do these analyses indicate that we are not hindered by the signing of this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u230	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u231	Thank you. Dear Senators, at the time, the ratification of the Doha amendment and the President's veto, I do not hide, have made it easier for us to discuss, although it was not easy to discuss, at European Union level, in terms of the 2020-2030 settlement period, i.e. the future settlement period. I, in detail, in connection with the task of your senator, your professor, will allow me to answer in writing and show these figures. I think it would be easier for us, Senator, to give this information this way, so if it's okay, then we'll answer that in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u232	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I can't hear you. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Piotr Wach. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. The text of the Act is contained in print No 733, and the report of the Commission In print No 733 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. The essence of the bill is Parliament's consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the existing agreement. It is important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark is the initiator of the agreement to be ratified. Following this agreement, the Agreement is repealed. The explanatory memorandum to the project indicates that the validity of the Agreement is contested by the European Union due to the non-compliance of the Agreement with Union law. Similar agreements have also been concluded by the Republic with other Member States of the European Union with the exception of Ireland and Malta. The agreement with Italy expired in 2013, but in respect of investments made before that date it was in force until 9 January 2018. During the committee's meeting, the matter of the law did not raise much controversy. They asked how many more such agreements were signed by the Republic and whether they would also be gradually extinguished. A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister informed that within the European Union these agreements are replaced by EU law and there is no need to duplicate EU law by bilateral agreements. In order to organise the legal system in the European Union, similar agreements will be extinguished. In this case, such termination shall take place at the initiative of the Danish party. The Commission recommends the adoption of a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u234	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Piotr Wawrzyk from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Tadeusz Kościński from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Do any of you wish to speak? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Tadeusz Kościński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u235	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The agreement with Denmark is part of the category of investment support and protection agreements that exist between the Member States of the European Union. It's the so-called. BIT agreements, with English bilateral investment treatment. These agreements were concluded at the beginning of the 1990s during the period of political and economic transformation in order to attract investment to Poland. The agreement provides the investor and his investment in the host country with full protection and the possibility of redress against the international arbitration tribunal. This agreement, like other BIT agreements concluded by the Member States of the European Union, is challenged by the European Commission because it is incompatible with European Union law. The Commission considers that these agreements are in line with and may even conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This applies in particular to the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and fundamental principles of European Union law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, effectiveness and certainty of European Union law, as well as the mechanism for resolving investment disputes. The Court of Justice of the European Union in its judgment in the case of Achmei today confirmed that these agreements were incompatible with European Union law. The process of Poland's termination of BIT agreements concerns not only the agreement with Denmark, but all such agreements concluded by Poland with the Member States of the European Union. These are a total of 22 contracts. Poland did not enter into such agreements with Ireland and Malta, and the agreement with Italy expired as a result of the termination of the agreement by the country. Poland also concluded an agreement with Portugal. This agreement will expire on 3 August 2019. The termination of the agreement will have no political consequences. The Member States of the European Union, including Poland and Denmark, have been invited by the Commission until the end of the BIT agreements. Both Denmark and Poland express their willingness to terminate the agreement. It was Denmark who asked Poland to terminate the contract. The termination of the agreement will not have a negative social impact. On the contrary, it is to be expected that it will be welcomed by public criticism of BIT agreements and international investment arbitration in Poland. Nor should it affect the economic relations between Poland and Denmark, the agreement was concluded to attract Danish investments to Poland, which was not a member of the European Union at the time. Currently, the level of legislation and access to the general judiciary provide foreign investors with a guarantee of protection of investment with the possibility of exercising their rights by judicial means. At the same time, the termination of the agreement will terminate the investor safeguard clause, which would continue to apply for another 10 years if the agreement with Denmark were terminated. The termination of the BIT agreement may also potentially reduce the financial burden of Poland for arbitration proceedings. Polish companies are minimally benefiting from state claims procedures under BIT agreements In contrast to foreign investors in Poland. However, despite the high percentage of cases won, Poland bears high costs of arbitration proceedings. Polish investors did not refer to international arbitration tribunals against Dani on the basis of the settlement agreement, as did Danish investors against Poland. The investigation of possible compensation by Danish investors will continue to be possible on the basis of national rules. I ask your marshals, ladies and senators to accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u236	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Any of you... Please. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u237	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have this question: at what stage of work... Is this already ratified in the Danish Parliament? At what stage is the Danish side when it comes to completing the whole procedure related to this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u238	The Danish side... This is not yet ratified on the Danish side, because the Danish side, at the end of the last year, frozen work on the termination of this agreement, because the Danes were waiting for this today's decision on the Achmei case, what will be the verdict, whether these agreements are compatible with EU law or not. And today, the verdict is that these agreements are incompatible, so it is natural that Denmark will now return to work on ratifying the agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u239	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u240	Well, then I have this logical question: didn't we hurry up a bit? Because this procedure had already been initiated in Poland, and the Danes, as the Minister mentioned, were waiting for a dispute to be settled in this regard. And here's the question: wasn't there some kind of rush? I mean, I am absolutely not against ratification of this agreement, I just mean to understand that, so to speak, bilateral Polish-Danish relations, as well as the substantive reasons for this decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u242	It was the Danish side that initiated the whole termination operation, only the Danish investor Falck, who invests in Poland, claimed in Denmark that he has investments here, and that at the moment there is a new law under which the rescue services will carry out their work... Only state companies, where the Treasury has most... And that's a big threat. It's for Falck. And we expect that this has caused them to freeze these actions. Because they initiated the action, and then they froze the work, and we decided that we would continue it. And today it turns out that we were right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for the Minister in general regarding such laws. Because, as I recall, we were already one during this term of office, concerning Portugal, in the same way they withdrew from the legal order. Now it's Denmark. But all this is done at the initiative of the other entity, not of the Republic of Poland. Portugal and Denmark. And couldn't we, if it's good for us, have such an initiative in the case of other countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u245	Just in case We were the initiator of Portugal. Denmark was the initiator of this current termination, and here we are the initiator... Because you have to separate that there are countries that are capital recipients, and there are countries that are donors. Countries that are donors generally want these agreements to stay, because in some sense they feel more secure, and countries like Poland, which are donors... We want to terminate these contracts as soon as possible, because we have risks and costs. As well as the European Union, the European Commission has just come to us and has told us that we are mistaken that these agreements are against the law, rather than telling all countries that we are all at the same time. This is... It's important to remember that when we solve a deal, it's so-called. Sunset clause, the investment is secured for 10 and 20 years. And in a situation like this, when this deal with Denmark is extinguished, this sunset clause is immediately extinguished, too, there's no guarantee for 20 years. There are countries that do not agree to extinction, and we, as Poland's side, must say... And then theoretically, there are 10, 15 or 20 years when the investment is secured by this clause. But I expect from today's ruling at the Court that the Union will now force all such agreements to be extinguished quickly, without any sunset clause. Because there was a ruling from the Court that they were incompatible with EU law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u246	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Tadeusz Kościński: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And I'm announcing a recess until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 22 to 18 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u247	I'm reopening the session. I remind you that until the sixth item of the agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2017, i.e. during the presidency of Estonia to the Council of the European Union, we will proceed tomorrow at 10 a.m. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 745 and the report of the committee In print 745 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u248	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday's committee met to consider the bill, to issue an opinion on the bill. The Act provides that persons selected by employees to the supervisory authority of companies will not have to comply with the requirement to have a positive opinion of the Company Council with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. Nor will they have to have higher education and higher education obtained abroad in the Republic of Poland and meet other requirements set out in the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. For such persons, the prohibition to remain in employment or similar relationship with a subsidiary has also been waived. In the opinion of the designers, the new solution will allow the supervisory body to identify candidates from among employees who do not meet all the requirements provided for candidates for a member of the supervisory body but have sufficient knowledge of the company and the trust of other employees. At the meeting of the committee, Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski defended the law and asked for a quick implementation of the law in connection with the forthcoming meetings of supervisory boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury and subordinates. During the discussion, the senators submitted... They asked properly, they asked why they were not required to have a higher education in the case of the company and the representation concerned. The Minister pointed out that, in particular, this is about cases of posting by social representatives, e.g. by trade unions. As there was a request that... Aha, when the Legislative Bureau submitted its comments, the legislator presented a number of amendments which in his opinion would improve both the way in which the legal provisions function and the way in which certain shortcomings were corrected. The comments were taken over by the chairman of the Economic Committee, Prof. Stanisławek, and recommended by the High House. There was also a motion to reject the bill. The committee's conclusion is negative. The proposal for both the adoption of amendments and the adoption of the law, together with the amendments adopted, recommends that the committee give a positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u249	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee on national economy and innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for minority committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! A minority has filed a motion to reject the bill. During the meeting, we asked if there were any companies of the State Treasury in which there was a problem with the selection of employee representation. As we know, it's not like employees on the board today don't have their representation. They do, they are ordered by law, they are required, and they are respected. Once upon a time, there were uncharted places, but today there are no such situations. So you could say that there is no problem here, the crew already today in general election elects their representative to the Supervisory Board. So what is the essence of this law? We've been trying to find out. After all, the problem is not the choice of competent employee representation. The Minister, referring to his union past, said that he wanted to ensure that he was present on the supervisory boards of persons not so much competent in business matters, in management matters, as well as those who would be determined to fight for labour matters in supervisory boards. Moreover, in the Minister's opinion, there is no need for those powers which the other members of the supervisory boards must have. It is difficult to agree with such a thing, because where, but it is in the companies of the Treasury that your trade unions are the strongest and exert strong At times, I feel too strong The impact on economic affairs. And it seems that further strengthening the voice of employees can lead to such a sound management, where the interests of employees would prevail over the economic interests of companies, where more would be devoted to the well-being of the currently employed than e.g. for the necessary investments. But when we asked further, it turned out that it was not really about the fact that some genuine charismatic leaders were necessarily elected to these counsels, because the restriction on trade union activists was also lifted. And so far it has been so that not only did it have to meet certain substantive requirements, but it also clearly separated those issues which the Minister wants to combine, i.e. being a trade union activist who is to put firm demands on the board of directors, on the supervisory board, on the management, on the economic and management functions that should be met by the supervisory board in this case No, it has control functions but also functions in this area. And I have to tell you that we have the impression that that's what this is all about, that's what this is all about, that is. To allow a group of unionists to enter supervisory boards so that they can benefit from the apanages and opportunities behind them. In my opinion, or in our opinion, because I represent a minority proposal, it's not a good idea. That's not necessary. I repeat: this is really not necessary. We're in favour of keeping up with our demands, too. Mr. Minister, we will agree on this. After all, nothing bad is happening to the crew or the companies. On the contrary. The individual ministries that manage companies show good results, and we know that wages and supplies are very good. Because this argument by the Minister could indeed be taken as true if the workers were ill there, or if they had not had sufficient influence, if the trade unions were weak, but none of these claims were true. That's why we think it's more like a union lobby that wants another place for itself, another privilege, so that I can do it. called, further strengthening their position, as well as the possibility of obtaining additional salaries. Therefore, it seems to us that the arguments which were put forward on the occasion of this law do not very much stand the test of fair verification. We cannot regard them as leading to a good goal, because all these goals which the Treasury wants to achieve are achieved, and among the abolished requirements is that the specially appointed body, just appointed by the ministers, evaluates the qualifications of the members of the supervisory boards, so it will have nothing to say about it either. That, I think, is to reduce the prerogatives of the ministries themselves in this regard. I therefore ask the High House to reflect on this. Let us really try to ensure that the remaining members of your company are directed not in the interests of anyone but in the interests of all of us. Employees are an invaluable resource of these companies, the most important is outside the discussion. They have an excellent representation in companies of the Treasury in the form of strong trade unions. Statistics Which each of you can verify immediately, looking at how the earnings of ordinary employees in the State Treasury companies have recently increased, show that their interests are really well secured. And why can they be secured? Because those who run the board of directors and those who are supposed to take care of good governance today allow for increases. I think there's a false understanding of the workers' welfare here. The workers will be well under two conditions That companies will be in good financial condition and will be well managed and that trade unions will be able to strongly claim workers' rights. These conditions are met. That's why I'm asking on behalf of the minority to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u251	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u252	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Which of your rapporteurs?]] Mr Marshal, to both rapporteurs. I'm a little surprised because when I'm walking here At 6:00 p.m., I was looking on the shelves of this law, looking for opinions, looking for nothing, so I couldn't read it. About what I've heard right now. I am, of course, surprised by this, especially what Senator Augustine said, which is why I want to go back to the merits of the case. I was briefed on the material, but I completely do not understand what the purpose of this law is. We know well that to sit in companies of the Treasury, you have to pass the exam. I used to take this test myself, so I know what the requirements are, what you need to know and so on. However, I do not understand how such derogations can be created. After all, any trade unionist can be a member of the board of directors, there is no problem, just meet the conditions that need to be met to become a member of the board. So I don't see any reason to make any exceptions right now and write down that someone doesn't have to have an education, it doesn't have to be... etc., etc. What's it done for? Well, to me, it's a completely incomprehensible story. I'd like to know if you've discussed this. That's the justification I've heard. It's not enough for me. I think I'll ask the Minister later, too. Because it's completely incomprehensible to me. Why is there an exception? Well, right now it's breaking the law. That's what I think. This is another example of ruining the law. You're making some additional exceptions. And this is about groups of trade unions that have their representation in each company. They can have relationships, there's no problem with that if they want to be on board, so be it, but let them meet the conditions like any other person. And here it introduces some other trade union privileges. I don't understand it, so I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you. [[Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u253	Before I explain, I'm going to allow myself one more detail, because in the meantime, I heard from a colleague about things that the Minister wants to connect... This is not a ministerial presentation, this is a parliamentary presentation. And the minister didn't show at the committee meeting yesterday that he wanted something here... I think it's a bit of an abuse... [[That's right.]] The project is a parliamentary submission. [[That's right.]] And if I can answer such a question, which basically already contains an answer and a certain expression of will, I will answer this: it is an attempt to change the law as to how employees are selected for supervisory boards. This is described in detail in the law and we change this law. Because we have the majority, we have the right to shape this law at our discretion. Unfortunately, I regret to answer your question here. This right will apply to very few companies from those that, after the previous government, represented by your organisation, have been sold. In other words, this right will apply only to companies that have not yet been sold in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u254	Would the senator like to refer? [[Yes.]] There you go, minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u255	♪ If you get an impression ♪ And I don't think I've used that expression. That this is a government submission... It is not, of course, but the government, as the Minister emphasized, because there were questions in this area... [[Voice from the room: Who? Minister?]] Yes, Minister Tchórzewski represented the government on this matter. I think I've been very faithful to this argument. I've been trying to be really impartial about this case. Moreover, in the explanatory memorandum itself, one of the objectives is: Senator Flork, I'm here to answer your questions. It is to protect the interests of the workers, to ensure what the Minister has talked about extensively, i.e. a situation in which representatives of the crew will be able to select their representative without any restrictions. I also asked about the ratio legis of the existing rules, why it was not before, and then it was introduced to make these exams and these requirements. That's why, to ensure that those who are to supervise 'Cause they're supervisory boards. The management work in companies and, in the case of companies of the State Treasury... The Minister was unable to tell how many there are, and I checked it out and I'm a little surprised because at the beginning of January there is always a special regulation published, a list of all these companies is published... Well, those companies that form the core, they're giants. We should take care of this national property as closely as possible. And I understand that, as the Minister said, the crew representatives are not the majority there, so if any adverse decisions were to be made for these companies, it certainly cannot be done by union votes alone. Nevertheless, I believe that since they are collegial bodies, it is important to ensure that each participant understands the matter he is to supervise and to make decisions consciously. Senator, I want to answer you: in 2015, when we lost the election, there were over 600 companies, six hundred dozen, I don't want to turn it, I don't remember if it was 618, or 614, I don't have any notes on me. Do you know how many there are today? Four hundred and a dozen. In this short time 200 companies ended their lives as a result of liquidation, but also sales. This program, which was, is simply continued. If you want, check it out, compare it to the list published at the beginning of the year. Thus, the fate of the companies of the State Treasury varies. [[This is manipulation.]] Some of these companies were of all kinds, so to speak, leftovers with which we did not know what to do with them. There's a permanent program for tidying up... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. Are you still answering Senator Flork's question?]] Yeah, I'll answer that, but I'm finishing that answer right now. Mr. Senator, I understand and share your concern, and I believe that the justification is only one point. And maybe it would be worth putting in place those rules that talk about the possibility for subsidiaries to select candidates. Because there is really a lot of consolidation today within companies, there are a lot of large plants scattered across the country, and that's why it would be good if not only the head office could select candidates, but also subsidiaries. And that's actually the value of this bill. But everything else, I think, is wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u256	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u257	I'm directing it to both of you, but these are different doubts. First doubt To the Senator of the rapporteur... [[Questions or doubts? I think it's questions.]] Doubt is always a question, Mr President. [[Proceed.]] [[Philosophical discussion.]] Then there will be a question. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. He has shown that he is a discipliner. The question to the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority, who, as I understand it, identifies itself with this law, which is important. Is it true that a minority representative claims that members of the crew, rather than trade unions, on the supervisory board, are to defend workers' rights, although this function is attributed to trade unions in an establishment and not to the supervisory board? Is that it? ratio legis of this law? And a question for the rapporteur of the minority. How do you imagine the crew who chooses? A representative to the board of directors... After all, he must meet many conditions in these elections. And this isn't supposed to be a union activist, and it has to be an education census... It is so important that in elections, for example. we senators and Members of such a census have no and practically even illiterate can be a senator or a Member. And if I don't run this far... Business management is not a representation of the nation. There is doubt that what comes out of the business pact requires such discipline in terms of these competences. In your speech, I read it. And that's also a question. That you'd like to eliminate any union representatives from the board of directors at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u258	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u259	Thank you. For the first part of the question... Mr. Marshal, before I answer the question, can I make a little correction? Given the fact that there's been a thesis that... [[Please answer as you see fit.]] All right, Mr. Marshal. Well, maybe I'll just focus on the answers to the questions. I'm sorry. In that question, there was a thesis that assumes that I identify with the provisions of the bill. I'm not at the moment where I'm talking about my beliefs, Mr. Senator. I now report to the committee's meeting. So I won't. Don't be mad. He was talking about his attitude to this. Okay? [[Good.]] Thank you very much. As for this matter you asked about, this was not discussed at the committee meeting yesterday. The other part was... The first part of the question was not discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u260	Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u261	Mr Senator, you have argued literally the same as the Minister in answer to my question that, after all, Members or Senators are also elected and they do not have to meet these requirements. Except we're not responsible for specialized management. Fortunately, there's a long way between us and the companies. That's why I don't think that's a good argument. When it comes to this question about protecting employees' interests, it's not exactly that it wasn't... No, the Minister was just saying that's what this is all about. Thus, it is not by chance on page 2 of the opinion, which is constructed on the basis of a parliamentary submission, that in the opinion of the designers the proposed solution is intended to protect workers' interests. So there can be no mistake here. I think it's worth asking the Minister, too... His statement in the latter case did not suggest that one of the major changes in the law is that union activists Not trade unionists and trade union activists They will be able to be appointed to the supervisory boards... [[Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: That's the point.]] ...and that's what this is about. Yes. That's an explanation, because these two cases were discussed at the committee meeting and these were the answers from the Minister who represents the government. Of course, it's a shame there weren't only applicants, none of them were, but it's not the first time. Not only in this term of office When the authors of the parliamentary projects do not appear or appear very rarely.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u262	You're asking Senator Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u263	I have a few questions. First question to Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Mr Senator, were there any opinions presented at the committee's meeting, e.g. trade unions? How do they feel about this bill? That's my question for Senator Pekkis. I also have a series of questions for Senator Augustine. With one question, did he get away with one thought? I'm Senator Rulewski, but there are other issues. Senator, first question: do you know how many companies were privatized during the Civil Platform? For as far as I know, Law and Justice, and precisely the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, has abolished the Ministry of Treasury just so that there is no privatisation. And today there are no privatisations and companies. Many companies have simply been misunderstood, handed over to local governments. This applies to PKS or spas. I think it's Jedlina's spa. I don't remember the name of the name anymore. It was given to the Marshal's Office of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. That's what they were called. The leftovers. Do you have any information at all if you provide such information? That's my first question. The second question is this. Mr. Senator, do you think if we give the crew... These are seats on supervisory boards, not for union activists, but for crew representatives. The Act gives the right to choose the supervisory boards of employees, crews. Do you think it's fair that crews can only choose those people who have specific competence? Employees cannot choose their colleague who enjoys authority and respect, has great knowledge and often knows the company because he works in it for 40 years. And he identifies with this company more than some boards that come and go, but he can't be elected to the board of directors because he doesn't have a higher education, and that's the requirement. Do you think that's fair? Whether he's a union activist or not. He may be a union activist, but he doesn't have to. Do you think that's fair? First we say "crew," choose a representative, and then we say "you can't choose," and you can't choose that, because this one doesn't have a course, this one doesn't have an MBA, this one doesn't have a doctorate in law, and this one doesn't have a higher education. And people with a lot of experience often have no higher education. Do you think that if someone doesn't meet these requirements, there isn't, let's assume... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u264	Mr. Senator, one minute. [[That's the last question, Mrs. Marshal.]] Maybe it's the next round because you've been asking questions for a long time. [[Good. Thank you.]] The point is for the senators to be able to answer questions that have already been asked. Mr. Senator Pekkis. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u265	I'll answer that. During the committee meeting, separate opinions were not read, but the Minister expressed a positive assessment of the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u266	Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u267	Questions for me. What you're asking wasn't the subject of the committee. I do know, however, that the privatisation of companies was carried out on the basis of the Seym Law, which indicated companies of strategic importance to the state. Probably on the basis of the same, still unchanged law, companies are still being disposed of today for the benefit of different entities. There's probably some way to document it when it comes to numbers, but that's not what we've been doing. I didn't do it either. I only referred here to what Senator Pekkis said, because I asked you earlier. It's natural, isn't it? What is the scale of this project and who is involved. I asked that at the committee meeting, and I didn't get an answer, so I was looking for her myself. I was surprised to find that there were 1/3 more companies of the Treasury in the 2015 regulation than today. Do I think it's fair that requirements exclude certain crew members from taking off? This could be extended: whether it is fair that the requirements at all exclude anyone from taking off, since people can have other wonderful character traits, etc., etc.? Well, I don't think we can look at it that way. Let's look at the function of the organ, at its tasks, and let's pick people for these tasks. Personally, I believe that the function of the Supervisory Board is not to care for the interests of employees, unless it affects the effectiveness of the company, and of course it can be. Therefore, all members of the supervisory boards Now that we're talking about justice, They should be treated in a similar way, they should meet the same requirements, otherwise it will be unfair the other way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u268	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the minority rapporteur, Senator Augustine. I wasn't supposed to ask that question, but you provoked me with your speech and your answer, that it is, as you put it, a collegial body, and that on the board of supervisors, the voice of employees who are in minority is not decisive. You also used the phrase that these are management functions... [[Supervisory.]] ...yes, supervisory functions, and that there should be some criteria here. There has been an example of senators, a choice of senators, and you could probably also join Members. I have a question, Senator: how do you assess the criteria that must be met by the person running for President of the Republic of Poland? We have had different presidents in history, with different educations, and this is the highest authority of the state, this is the commander of the Armed Forces, who decides on many key matters for the whole state. How would you answer such a question in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u270	I could say briefly that this is not the subject of a law or the subject of a committee, but I would say this: a different political responsibility and a different management of a company. We should understand that. The Minister is also a politician and does not make such demands, although he is politically responsible for the operation of various companies. Of course, it would be great if he knew his stuff, and that's why we try to find such people to rule, but it's not really required. That's why, Mr. Senator, that's why where it's about direct business management, we make certain requirements. It is not that those who do not necessarily have substantive competence must have enough, because there is too much likelihood of economic error here. Of course, we have the right to differ in these assessments. I present my position and my position as a minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski, and then Mr. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna start by saying that we're a little lost in the vacuum because there's actually no author of this bill. And I have a question for the Senator of the majority. I'd like to know if the senator can confirm that these things, the problems... How did the representative of the Sejm justify this, and how did you accept it? And the other one... I expect the answer, so in the light of the security of this law, I would ask the marshal to present a representative of the Sejm. [[We have the Minister with us today.]] [[Yes.]] But he's not the author. This is the bill, Mrs. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: This is a parliamentary presentation.]] [[Well, I get it.]] [[But I'm an envoy, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u273	I think the Minister will answer all your questions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u274	Yeah, I was just... In answer to the question which has already been answered, I will say that at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on Opinions to the Act on the amendment of the Law on the Rules of State Property Management and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers was not present...I am sorry, there was a representative of the Sejm, i.e. Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski present here. [[No, no, no. Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, can I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u275	Please... [[...to supplement your doctor but to call for some precision?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u276	There is neither in the Seym nor in the Senate so that the Minister is also a representative of Members. Besides, the representative of Members is another person, not the Minister. So I'm asking you to answer if there was a representative who was... [[Applicant.]] Was there an applicant?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u277	Shortly: Was or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u278	There was no other representative than yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u279	Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Senator Krzysztof Frost. I'm asking that we be in this minute... [[Good.]] ...as defined in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u280	I only have one question for Senator Augustine now. Mr. Senator, because you were talking about the justice with which members of the board must be treated. Here we have such a specific situation that we are giving the floor to the crew representatives and, in my opinion, these requirements may be different. Do you think this is some kind of violation of standards, rules? Because, as far as I know, the European Union is going in such a way that this social factor is present. After all, they are mandatory, as is the case under EU law, labour councils and this control of employees over the company, about what is happening in the company, is kind of desirable. That's my first question. And the second question, if your marshal will allow me, is the question... I wonder how to briefly formulate them... Are you... Is the Civic Platform against the ability of crews to elect their representatives for supervisory boards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u281	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u282	Mr. Senator, participation and control of crew representatives are necessary, desirable and guaranteed by law. And today in all companies of the Treasury, your crew representatives are selected. To answer your second question... Well, we share the position of all those who believe that this check is advisable and necessary. It's just that we want those who control, have the right preparation, the right knowledge, so that they can do it effectively, effectively, with understanding. That's all. And to this day, it is. Even more: I tried to emphasize that it was okay. Companies stand well, they earn the crew well, and there are employees' representatives on the board of directors. Then don't be surprised, because this isn't just looking for a second bottom. I honestly said what's good about this bill: that it's about these subsidiaries that it was worth taking into account. However, as far as the latter is concerned, we simply do not share this approach. We don't think that's what we used to give up so that the bad old state could be restored now. One might say this: it does not take much imagination to consider it probable that today a competent representative chosen by the crew is taking a substantive view of everything that the supervisory board controls. And in the future it's gonna be like this... I think during the discussion, one of the senators said he was gonna be... Excuse me, I don't want to offend anyone. It may be someone with a great heart, probably a good man, but without proper qualifications. The question was, is this about choosing a pole for the board of directors? It's not, to say the least, proper protection of the crew's interests. That's not the right security. It's not like I'm working with the trade unions in lawmaking from now on. How many times have they sent top-notch experts, experts who have successfully defended their interests? And that's good, and that's what's desirable. There is no lack of trust in trade unions or disregard for their interests. If to assume that the good condition of companies is in the interest of crews I don't think it's necessary to justify it. It is also in the interests of the crews that those who are to ensure this have the appropriate competence. And I am convinced that, so far, so in the future, the crew would not view this as a handicap, but as a guarantee of a competent representation of their interests in the sense that it would ensure the company's well-being so that adequate wage increases and social rights could be fully implemented. Thus I understand the participation and necessary, absolutely necessary, control of employees through the supervisory boards of the economic condition of the companies in which they work. This is of course crucial for the stability of their work, salary etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u283	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Minister of Energy is with us today, Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski. Does the Minister, as a representative of the government, wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. Come on in. [[And it's up to you to discuss...]] There isn't. Sign up because there's no secretary. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, I'm afraid so. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! To begin with, I would like to explain the background to what is happening, the reason for this law. By 31 December 2016, the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act was in force, e.g. there was no requirement for higher education mentioned here. The opinion of the Company Board was not necessary, etc. The current Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property has just introduced these additional requirements. And there was some confusion about the social side's approach to these requirements. The representatives of the social side clearly stated that if you, on your behalf, as the State Treasury, wanted to establish certain requirements as regards the persons who would represent on the supervisory boards I will repeat once again that I am talking here about the supervisory boards of the State Treasury, this country can set requirements for its representatives. But the State, given the agreements signed on commercialisation decisions that took place when state-owned companies were transformed into companies... And then there was a settlement between the State Treasury and the crews, as a result of which the crew's settlements were granted the right to have their representatives on supervisory boards, and in some cases also on boards, also on subsidiaries' boards, depending on how the commercial negotiations were conducted. These representatives were not appointed on behalf of the crew by the trade unions, but were generally elected by the crew to oversee the proper execution of the settlement, the settlement that was concluded before the commercialization, i.e. to supervise whether it is being observed or not, whether the State Treasury as the dominant owner does not abuse in this respect and in relation to the crew of the undertakings of its powers. And that's where these representatives came from. Following the adoption of the Law in 2016, this Law on the Principles of State Property Management, representatives of the social side addressed and to the Government Party, and to Parliament, so that these solutions could be reversed in some way. Hence the initiative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the Sejm regarding the recognition of these claims by the social party as legitimate, i.e. that the social side, which, according to the rules, has designated how many people to sign so that a candidate can report... And in order to be able to cancel the candidate, this is a proposal that has to be made by 15%. crews So it's already clearly marked. So this refers to whether a particular crew candidate has a recommendation for a full crew. And that's why it's a popular election in the company. In general elections in the State Treasury company, no members of the board are elected, who are appointed by the dominant owner, the State Treasury. Here these crew representatives are supposed to be in the interests of the entire crew with regard to the contract which was related to the commercialisation of the company, so this is quite different and the role of these representatives is quite different. And in this connection, the crew's representatives insisted on this matter, believing that they had the right to choose the ones they wanted. Because of what happened with the current choice... e.g. at the Institute of Energy Systems Automation, where most employees have a higher education They're people. Even with doctoral degrees and higher education, these employees refused to report their representatives and reported representatives of the crew who did not have a higher education. So they said it was their wish for the crew to represent you. Thus, this institute still does not have its representative on the supervisory board today, because due to formal deficiencies it has not been accepted. And there's a formal conflict at this point, which can be raised to a certain summit, because, let's say, 70%. The crew has a higher education, doctor's degree, professor's degree, etc., and the choice shows that there's a rule here that's been violated. It is similar in Siarkopol Tarnobrzeg, where candidates who do not meet the requirements have just been submitted and other candidates have not accepted a proposal to represent the crew It's like, to mark the attitude of the crew, that the crew doesn't agree to such treatment, contrary to the agreements. So that's the way it is from that point of view. And here I would like to stress that there is a very different matter here. Well, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, members of this club, considered that the crew should be dealt with subjectively, not subjectively, and that something needs to be changed in this area, to take a step backwards, to go back in terms of those solutions that have been adopted by the law. Thus, when submitting this bill, they acknowledged the right of the social side and the representatives of the crew with regard to the law and their decision as to whether they choose a person with high qualifications, which has a certain dimension, or whether they choose a person they have full and deep confidence in. And that's the difference in the approach with which... And that is what the majority of Members of the Parliamentary Club agreed on. That's where the bill came from. What I'm trying to say is that I agree. Mr Augustine stressed that I had expressed my view during the debate. I simply share the view that the role of a representative of the crew in this supervisory board is quite different, all the more so because the supervisory board is something like Members or Senators in relation to the government. There are no management activities, only supervisory activities. And here you require quite different competences, here you do not participate in direct management of the company. From this point of view, it is a completely different responsibility. Therefore, these things have been taken into account in this way. I would like to refer to the fact that neither the state budget for 2016 nor the state budget for 2017, i.e. the budgets created by Law and Justice, was founded and no privatisation revenue was assumed. Indeed, there were 612 companies at the end of 2015 and at the end of 2016.498, but I would like to point out that this results in some efficiency because it was in the liquidation of 81 companies at the end of 2015 and at the end of 2016. 46. These companies, which were in the worst condition, were somehow wound up and the property was mostly transferred to local governments. And that's why these companies, let's say... Therefore, this number of companies decreased. At the end of 2015, there were 81 companies which did not carry out any activities and were listed in the company register, i.e. those which were not formally dissolved. At the end of 2016, there were only 18 of them, of 81, so here there is just a certain ordering of state property, which, as you can see, was a little neglected. The same is true of the number of companies in bankruptcy. At the end of 2015, there were 70 of them, at the end of 2016, 62 of them, so in this area we are also striving for a certain order. Hence, these numbers do not mean that any privatisation activity had to take place. I would also like to point out that, in most of the current companies that were previously commercialised, crew representatives participate in supervisory boards. Among the companies that are in the management domain of the Minister of Energy, e.g. Enea, headquartered in Poznań, has its representatives; the team of the Water Power Plant Niedzica, has its representatives; Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, one of the large listed companies, has its representatives both on the board and on the board of directors; Węglokox The country has its representatives; the head office for the sale of Węglokox has its representatives; the Company for Restructuring of Mine has its representatives... So, if I look at the whole thing, 'Cause I'm not gonna read them all. Two thirds of companies have representatives, and in 1/3, in smaller ones where the crew did not expect and did not ask for representatives, commercialization processes were carried out. This was all due to the consensus that was reached at the moment. I would like to add that in some way I represent here as regards my participation in this bill... Since these representatives are essentially in these larger companies, and these larger companies are in the domain of the Minister of Energy more than in the domain of other ministers, I am a representative of the government. I would also like to stress that the government, from the point of view of the subjectivity of the crew, agrees that these proposals of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice should be accepted. And that's what I'm asking the senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u285	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As a substitute reference, Minister, you must be prepared for my, maybe ugly or difficult, questions. Minister, do you think you and the government represent the government here? This will increase the efficiency of companies or reduce them? And if it does, on what grounds does the government claim? The education censor will be lowered, which is, let's face it, at least a few percent will be, so to speak, excluded knowledge and science. The second question will go as if a ricochet also against the doubts of Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. The government boasts that there are no privatisations, but there are other forms of privatisation, raised during mining strikes. Employee shareholder or crew with strategic partner, strategic capitalist... Does the government think about such solutions? Because if there's no one willing to privatize or the government doesn't want it, then there are other forms. And finally, the third question. I have used such an expression that Members and Senators do not have to have a census of education either. But the truth is, the legislator can define I'm not necessarily referring to what you said, because I'm sure you're thinking, Minister, about the business pact. Some censuses, as was stated in the case of Members and Senators, that I am now turning to us, e.g. Census of age, census of morality, or lack of punishment. Well, voters must also read our flyers where education is given. Don't you think that Senator Augustine's charges could be used in some form? It is not necessary to rely on an earlier agreement on a company, which has been in place for 20 years. It was the last words that worked well. There were no disputes against the fact that the members elected by the crew must not be so endowed with the qualifications of the unions, but be representatives of the company. A member of the supervisory board is not a union rep in this company... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...he's just a representative of the company.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u287	Thank you very much. Do any of you have a question for the Minister? You're welcome. I don't see any calls. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u288	First of all, when these educational requirements were not particularly respected, there were employees who had a higher education in the supervisory boards and those who did not have this education. All this depended on the assessment of the crew. I would like to stress once again that those employees who are elected to the Supervisory Board are treated as representatives of the crew and not of the trade unions. So that would be more or less the result of these social arrangements. And as for my view of what it looks like in those companies that I oversee. This has no major impact on the operation of the companies. It is the attitude of the Management Board and the activity of the Management Board that essentially determines how the companies operate. The board of supervisors may be motivated by the board of directors, but as far as we're concerned... Well, I didn't see any significant difference here, significant impact on the company's functioning. However, there is social peace within the company and confidence in the main owner, the State Treasury. If this owner partnerly treats the choices of crew representatives to supervisory boards, does not interfere with these choices, then this is it. much better received than when it is active in this area and tries to influence it, because in the first case the crew considers it more reliable... Well, it's more based on the positions of these representatives. But they report their actions to the crew every once in a while. Now I'm going to refer to the second part of the question, about how... As far as the impact on the results is concerned, I've already said it, and as far as... Maybe the senator will remind me because I'm missing it right now. [[...Crews will have the right to participate in these...]] Yes. Every employee shall have the right to participate. If this amendment of the Act is introduced, each of the employees of the company will be entitled to be selected if he collects an appropriate number of signatures on the list of support before he makes his candidacy. The crew here is treated fully subjectively. I think that's right, and so far I haven't noticed the needs that, from the point of view of the company's functioning, would be clearly... Of course, there is also the question that the presence of crew representatives on supervisory boards has a positive impact on the care of the crew, and this care is greater. I agree with the fact that in such companies there is a greater trend and greater emphasis on general meetings and representatives of the State Treasury, so that there is a fairer distribution of the profit earned. Then the crew gets more. And that's good, that's the way it should be, because these companies are very dynamic. As I look at the companies that I supervise, I see that they are dynamically, actively working with the crew to achieve as much profitability and profit as possible. And I do not notice in companies in which the State Treasury dominates when it comes to shares such as Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa... It clearly shows the activity of the crew to ensure that this profit is as high as possible and to ensure that the profit is properly involved. This is slightly different from the activities of typically private companies, where the subjectivity of the crew is not always seen. This is how we view it as law and justice. I present the view that the state should, in a sense, pay attention to how you approach your crew in private companies. Hence our initiatives towards a much more dynamic increase in minimum wage than before. We believe that workers who make profits should be more involved in the distribution of the company's income, because it actually translates... If they have that possibility, it translates into... Currently, the revenue of the State Treasury from taxation and the profits generated in the companies is growing very rapidly. That is why I do not see any danger here and ask the senators to be kind to support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński wants to ask you another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the transitional provisions. Art. 3 and 4 are transitional provisions concerning the amended law. I want to make it clear how they're going to be applied. That's what the regulations say after the change. Art. 4 says that the company has 45 days to adopt resolutions and submit them to the registry court from the date of entry into force of the law. A. 3, also after the amendment, says that after this entry, new provisions, i.e. the provisions of the Article, apply for the first time. Two after shifts. Question. Does this mean that the election of new members of supervisory boards will be required, or will the term of office be expired and new members will then be elected on the basis of these provisions? In other words, whether these changes are to be, so to speak, consummated immediately as regards subsidiaries and parent companies, or after the term of office of the members elected by the Management Board. The second question is, in a sense, related to the absence of a transitional provision to Article. 1 because this situation in the 2 companies that the Minister was talking about cannot now be consummated by this article. The question is, what about those who were elected and who did not comply with the provisions of the Act in the old version, and who fulfilled the terms of the Act in the new version. This should be validated and simply a transitional provision should allow these crew members to be included in the supervisory boards according to the new wording.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u291	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have just found print 2235, and indeed, I see 21 Members signed under this print. I don't see the Minister's signature here. I don't see the Minister signing his name. This is a parliamentary project, so we are all the more surprised that the representative of Members is not here. Minister, of course we agree that a crew member should be on the board of the company, here is the agreement, but there is a question that there are exams that entitle us to sit on the boards of the Treasury companies, there was a requirement not only higher education, but also middle education, it was possible to pass this exam and many, many passed. Why make an exception in this situation? If a person is to sit on the board of directors, he should have a certain knowledge, at the courses, at the exams to gain this knowledge. Why deprive ourselves of the possibility that a representative of the crew... It may be anyone, but let him meet this particular requirement, let him have the power to sit on the boards of the Treasury companies. Why did you turn your back on this? It's completely incomprehensible to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u293	Thank you. Does anyone else have any questions for the Minister? Thank you very much. [[He didn't answer my question about employee shares or other forms of privatisation, to see if they were anticipated.]] Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u294	Thank you. They're not anticipated. [[No.]] No, they're not. I'll start by answering the first question. Well, Mr. Senator, when it comes to these two companies, whose examples I gave, the institute and Siarkopol, it's over there. the elections simply did not take place because these candidates for such elections could not be allowed in accordance with the rules in force and the elections did not take place. As far as this principle of qualification is concerned, this is, as I said at the beginning, a question of how to interfere, as if to enter into the field. If the crew has been authorized without any conditions in the commercialisation contract to elect their representative for the supervisory board, then any violation of this principle is in a sense violating what happened earlier, namely what concerns commercialisation. Looking at it from the point of view that this is the right of the crew, it's up to her to choose who she chooses, whether the person who is qualified or the person who doesn't have the qualifications, it's a matter of giving the right trust. Especially since in practice for the results of the company's activities it is not only important, but it does not matter because these persons in the supervisory board are always in minority. These are crew representatives, they don't happen to be the majority in any company. Thus, qualified representatives of the Treasury may decide on how to assess the work of the Board. From this point of view, it is important to ask a normal human question, why, when it actually does not affect anything, the importance of workers who, for example, are being reduced. they have no higher education, and they are considered not to be representatives of the crew on the Supervisory Board. And this is... Because this is the personal domain of the company's employees when it comes to this choice, the Members considered that... that's the point of this action.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u295	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Minister! I had the opportunity to present all the points behind the minority position so that I would not accept this law. Let me stress once again that we see the need for representatives of subsidiaries to participate in the selection of candidates. That's the good of this bill. Of course, one can wonder whether it should be so that this requirement of higher education is, and certainly it should not be so, that we eliminate from these requirements the transition of this training, the course that teaches the exercise of this function and ends with an appropriate exam, not necessarily easy, but guaranteeing that a person headed to the supervisory board will be a partner in solving cases, sometimes difficult, which are in companies to solve. Today's experience, current experience shows that, apart from exceptional situations in which, as the Minister said, the crew was not interested And it was even negotiated. In principle, all the companies of these representatives have their representatives' participation in the supervisory boards. That's right. That's it. the requirement of the European Union. You are right, Senator Frost, that we have witnessed here making decisions about employee councils, especially in companies above 50 people, etc., to ensure this representation. I am a strong supporter of strong trade unions who defend workers' rights. It is unfortunate in Poland that these relationships are not in large private companies or that they are residual, that they are weak. Therefore, labour interests are not necessarily represented there at the appropriate level. But that doesn't really apply to those companies we're talking about here today. There, trade unions are strong and well represented by the interests of the crew, as the Minister stressed. And it is. This is seen in statistics on earnings, allowances, etc. That's why I think that what's been going on for so many years, there's no reason to violate, there's no reason to change. Well, unfortunately, it's hard not to notice that this lifting of requirements is a discussed issue, and one time it's not known. In the case of various institutions important for the functioning of the state, we constantly limit, reduce requirements. Each time, of course, there are other justifications, but there is no denying that this is some trend in which this law also fits in. On this occasion, I'd like to say that we'll probably be witnesses... The Minister said it was a matter of pace, because the elections are approaching the supervisory boards, and that this law should be implemented as soon as possible. It was even a question of whether to adopt legislative amendments or not. We'll probably decide that eventually, but there was no proposal to accept without amendments. I think we're gonna at least give ourselves time to get these legislative comments in place. But what the Minister said is some sort of announcement of some, well, far-reaching exchange of those representatives who, so far, met the requirements, high requirements, represented the crew. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not necessarily allow the exchange of good for the better, and that we will not serve the well-interested crews of these companies. I think if people with the right trust... I have noted here the words of the Minister: full and deep trust. Well, I can't imagine those people currently elected to the board of directors... Are they chosen by chance? Don't they enjoy the full trust of those who chose them? Well, I don't think we can even think that or say that. Since they've been chosen, I understand they've been endowed with this trust. That is why I rather believe that this will be the exchange of competent people for unfortunately, at least in a formal sense, certainly less competent. And I think we should be very reserved in this respect. It is natural that the crews can demand what they are saying, and it is difficult for me to blame them. But we who are here to be responsible for the efficiency of companies, which are often responsible for sectors, even if those managed by the Minister, so sensitive to each household, should look more here... and ensure that due to an adequate level of efficiency the price of goods supplied by these companies will be friendly to everyone. And that a good result will not be the subject of a corporate, intra-corporate, intra-company, mutually agreed split, only that first you will look at what we have fuel prices, what we have the price of energy, and only second order - Yeah, only in second place. At this point in time, whether we can afford to take even better care of the interests of workers who contribute to the development and functioning of these companies without any increases in efficiency. That is why I would ask you very much to treat our motion exactly as we say. We also think that employees should be well, and we think that it is worth it for them to participate in supervisory boards. We just want to. And that's the only difference between us, and it's the only difference between us, so that they can do it as competently as possible, equipped with the right intellectual tools to do it the best they can. And I will repeat once again at the end: there is no better way to the best possible situation of employees in companies of the State Treasury like the excellent results of these companies. This will be guaranteed by professional management and professional supervision. It's in the interests of the employees. I don't think there's any difference between us in this respect, except, as the Minister said, there's a difference in approach. I believe that our approach guarantees the crew and participation in decisions, and the good functioning of companies, so it guarantees the well-being of employees better than this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u297	Thank you very much. Minister, you want to speak, I understand. Or maybe after all the speeches, you'll respond to it. Okay? [[Good.]] Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! There is a request from a minority of the committee to reject the bill, and I will not repeat this proposal, although I also believe that this law should definitely be rejected. I think I'll make a few points. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple requirement. As regards the powers to sit on boards of companies of the State Treasury, exams have been held since the 1990s. I can't remember which year, but since the 1990s, I'm sure. In 1997 or 1998 I myself passed an exam entitled to sit on boards of companies of the State Treasury. By the way, I haven't been on any board so far, but I have this document. Enough to have a middle-school education to get a document like that. Well, you have to have knowledge, be well prepared to be on the board of directors. But this is the board of directors, this is an important, very important body, and we need to remember that. About what Senator Pekkis said here so nicely... Well, I'm going to refer to these companies now, the privatisation of the thief, etc., etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there was a law on the commercialisation and privatisation of companies. I myself commercialized, privatized and transformed 30 companies into companies. If I didn't do it, I'm sure of it, I have no doubt about it. A large group of these companies would have fallen. In fact, there is only one company that was bankrupt but has been transformed and is now in liquidation because it has assets that can cover these possible costs of bankruptcy. In general, this helped to protect the crew in many companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like every company... And we were getting out of the socialist economy where something was produced and put into the warehouse. You still have to sell it all, that's what it's all about. In order for these companies not to fall, so that workers would not lose their jobs, something had to be done about it. If this is what you call stealing privatisation, etc., then I'm offended because it's quite... Today, it is easy for you to say this, but it was important to protect this crew at the time of these transformations when they took place. It has been many, many significant companies, and that is why I stress that this has helped to achieve many jobs. Mr. Senator Pekkis, well, that argument you made convinces me. This one argument that you have the majority, so you can do what you think is right, convinces me. Well, okay, all right, that argument is convincing me. You've got most of it, all right, but I'm gonna say mine anyway. You do what you want, and that's why I'm not even gonna make any adjustments here. It is clear from the Act that any employee of an undertaking or member of a trade union may be on the Supervisory Board. Well, that's clear, that's obvious. What's the bill for? I can't understand it. Why change that? The point is that those who can enter a supervisory board can't, because they lack these documents, etc., but in this supervisory board they can place them. Yeah, okay, okay, you guys have the right to do it, you can do it. We can agree with that, only that we say it should not be so, because we need to take care of the interests of the company. Well, that's what the Members have decided. I've just read it. I've got this 2235 print right here. That's right, 21 Members signed off on this, but I think I only know two people, and the other names don't tell me anything, I don't know who it is. But, indeed, 21 Members have signed off on this. They want to do some little jump to possibly get past those requirements that are, but they didn't even come here and they're not trying to justify why they want to do it. Yeah, but you probably know why this jump is supposed to be done. The case is obvious, so they won't come because what are they supposed to say? So they're gone. For me, there is no doubt about what is going on. I didn't even know it was on the show until six o'clock, because I didn't think to talk about it, because I didn't even know it was gonna be on the show today. But after a brief analysis, there is no doubt about what is going on for me. The proposal is simple, ladies and gentlemen: normally we should treat it in such a way that this law is suitable for rejection. Let's keep an eye on the order, let's not make exceptions that make no sense, that we want to help someone, to make things right, and so on. You know, I don't have to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u299	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought that after this very concise and synthetic explanation of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski's statements, certain things would no longer be repeated. But I see that both Senator Augustine and Senator Florek are persistently worthy of a better cause, or do not want to understand certain things, or do not want to function in a certain reality. What's the bill for? We passed a bill in 2016 It was probably in December. .. which has quite substantially tightened up the requirements for sitting on supervisory boards. It's not like that, Senator Florek, that we lower requirements everywhere. It was this law adopted in 2016 that increased the criteria, among others. it introduced a requirement which was not there, as the Minister also said, that it is necessary to have a higher education in order to sit on the supervisory board, not only the right to sit. And, ladies and gentlemen, for many years you have been talking about, in fact, the crew representatives have chosen people with these privileges, because these crews have been informed, there was time to take courses for supervisory boards, as the senator rightly pointed out, and these crew representatives have simply done these powers. But since January 6, 2017, if I'm not mistaken, when this law came into force, there has been a requirement for higher education. It is known that these people, who are trusted by the crews, are often elected for many terms of office, will not complement this higher education, so naturally they cannot be on the board of supervisors. And to various parliamentary and senatorial offices, at least the Law and Justice... [[They can go to college.]] ...the crewmen came and said, "Mr. Mr. Senator, this is a problem for us." E.g. such a problem occurred in KGHM, where it is trusted and elected from many, many terms of office a representative of the crew, who simply does not have a higher education and cannot be elected now, and the term of office of the company's bodies ends in June this year. And in fact, Mr. Senator, this is a higher education. Those representatives who function today, who want to apply for these places, have 100% Because otherwise they could not be there, as far as courses are concerned, but there are cases where they do not have a higher education. And that eliminates them. In addition, we have also tightened these requirements, because there is this board of companies and even if someone meets the requirements, has a higher education, has a course or meets other criteria, the board does not have to give a positive opinion at all, because there is a decision of this board, which also looks at some other criteria and evaluates this person. And that was the main reason for the change, that is to say, it was the answer to those signals that reached the senators' offices and the Members' offices. Hence this initiative of my fellow Members, those 21 Members who... Well, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps no one came to your senator's offices, and that's because you were generally in favour of privatization, privatisation and only privatisation, i.e. generally eliminating crews from sitting on supervisory boards. Because that was the consequence of privatisation, Mr. Senator. Well, you have to confirm that when the company was privatized, its employees were no longer entitled to sit on supervisory boards. And that's one thing. That's why I'm surprised this case, which is kind of obvious, doesn't arouse any giant controversy. "So that the crews can choose in any way the people they trust, and who are very often uneducated and will not pass through this board of companies, as the Minister said... And he even gave an example of this energy institute to show that this tightening of the rules we have made is unfair from the point of view of the workers. So, we're pulling out of this tightening, since that's the social signal. Insinuating by your senator that Law and Justice are already thinking here about how someone who doesn't meet the requirements would press into the board of directors... Well, Mr. Senator, no one in Law and Justice is gonna push anybody on the board of directors, and these people are gonna choose crews. We have tightened these requirements for our representatives In this sense I say my own government, and it is very real, so that we now have to meet a lot of requirements, more stringent requirements than we have so far, to sit on the supervisory board of the company, representing the State Treasury; not only the Treasury, because also the local government units. So, in general, for the representatives of the authorities. I mean, how could you say in quotes, for Law and Justice, if we apply such a convention These requirements are very, very high. The last point I would like to address A little bit by the side, though. Because it has been raised, this is a matter of privatisation, which was mentioned here by the rapporteur Senator, but I will also do so in response to the suggestions of Senator Flork and Senator Augustine. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when Law and Justice came to power, for another year some privatisation processes were completed and later said: no more privatisation, no more privatisation in Poland. The point is to guarantee that after our governments I don't know if you're gonna win it, but I'm sure someday the Law and Justice will go against it. It's not going back to privatisation. We even removed the Treasury Ministry, scattered the company supervision so that no one would ever have to privatize again. And that is why, Senator, just under the rule of law and justice, these new supervisory boards with the participation of the Treasury representatives... [[Government.]] ...government representatives Let me put it this way. and these new boards They manage companies so effectively today that these companies have profits. Well, it's almost raining. So he had to be privatized quickly, and the main concern of the Civic Platform government was whether anyone would buy this bankruptcy mass of the Polish flight. And today, this flight is profitable. And it was you who wanted to privatize the company which today falls under the authority of Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, or Lotos. Well, you were eager to sell Lotus immediately. And today, this Lotus brings huge profits. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And it is you today who are protesting when we want to further integrate these companies under state control. It was under Mr. Donald Tusk's rule that you sold 10% with a light hand. KGHM. And today is the question: in this situation, when in KGHM we have only 32% Shares, is it possible to exercise effective supervision? So the government introduced the so-called. list of companies and changed the statutes, among others. It's just to limit the possibility for private shareholders... 'Cause I think it's over 20% on the general... And it's you guys for this privatisation process that let me say that. Today, the vast majority of companies in the State Treasury are making huge profits, including those companies that, under your governments, were destined for privatisation. Well, this is where Senator Rulewski's friend tried to convince me that this privatisation generally saved those poor, failing companies... Well, two more years of the Platform's government and we wouldn't have had a national carrier... and the railroad, too, because the regional railways were barely dead, and today they're starting to function. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there have been good privatisations, yes. But let's be honest. The whole queue is willing to buy PKO BP shares, while those willing to buy some failing company that has problems are... Many of them weren't because they sold mainly the good, the most attractive bites. And that's common knowledge. That is why, in conclusion, I think that the Minister will make an even more appropriate summary, and I would like to say that we are surprised that the bill, in which we thought it would not cause any controversy, suddenly arouses such extreme emotions. You're making the most far-reaching motion to reject the bill, which is amazing, because it's a law that increases the possibilities of people, crews, when it comes to choosing the people who will represent these crews on supervisory boards. And really, believe me, those people who vote in companies often care more about companies than they do about boards over the years, and they will definitely choose people who care about these companies. And let us not limit their opportunities in terms of whether they can choose their friend who has a higher education or not. Because higher education alone is not a guarantee of knowledge, competence and qualifications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u301	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a little bit... As I spoke during the report about what was happening at the committee meeting and I did not speak my own opinion, I would like to say that in fact, as I was still looking at as a student, writing my work in the next studies, from management... I've been writing a paper on privatization of the Power Plant. And that was a very difficult example of privatisation. To this day, no one answered my question: why was the power plant privatized? The power plant, then one of the largest power plants in the country, the area's largest power plant in the country, was very carefully invested before the sale, the boilers were renovated, constant deliveries were provided from a nearby mine belonging to it, and, for example, ultra-modern gas desulfurization system, electrofilters were installed at that time. Well, everything that could be done was invested in it, then sold for about three times the value of the exhaust desulfurization system itself. In other words, this is an obvious example of this... The important thing is that no one has ever lost on this business in post-war Poland. Never. No employee has ever lost in this business. Poland had a clean, undisturbed profit from this. And from that profit, some of the bands decided to give up, in fact. As the later reality has shown They decided to own themselves, make money on it. Therefore, various companies and companies were created, various systems of manipulation in the workforce transformations were manipulated by people who were underinformed. There was no internet, there was no universal knowledge. Anyway... I am not accusing you of this, I am accusing you of the time you have been fighting. But unfortunately, it took a very, very long time. Why? Because when the coming opposition elite saw how the communist elite was earning money on almost nobody's property, that is, state property, how she was able to manage this property economically... Well, unfortunately, the consequence of that was that when this opposition came to power, it behaved very much the same way. The example set out here by your second rapporteur is that of the number of companies that have fallen since the rule of law and justice... Anyone who looked at the number of companies multiplying at a turning rate, e.g. on the railroad, he knows what it was all about. That is, very clever gentlemen of the presidents formed other companies only subordinate. And these companies were doing virtually nothing except that they were paying to the president, possibly to his supporters. And there were dozens of such companies on the railroad. I don't care if there's a hundred and thirty companies on the railroad today. So let us not be fooled about where the number of disappearing companies comes from. It does not result from the fact that they are sold or privatized, because there is virtually nothing left in the property to privatize so that the state does not cease to function. These companies are disappearing because elementary pathologies have been eliminated. I'm saying "pathology," because you can't call it anything else. What do I think these pathologies came from? I'm watching as... every one of us is watching because we're alive, but I have an opportunity to observe industry, because I'm driving around industrial plants as a scientist, as a lecturer, with students, watching how these bets change from year to year. Ladies and gentlemen, the way the power plant was privatized is a disaster. Those were the most important decisions made at the summits of power. But there were a whole bunch of smaller companies, and until recently, 20 years ago, I remember that from when I was a student. Polish pump construction industry, such elementary energy machines, which are very often used. They were three large companies, very strong, dynamic, profitable. And again, as a result of the operation of the gentlemen who had their head perfectly organized, they were sold to these gentlemen. Few: the smallest of these companies bought the other two, basically for the assets of these companies. And then what did it turn out to be? All you had to do was rent... One of these companies is based in Warsaw, I am talking about the former Warsaw Pomp Factory. And the profits for all the activities of these 3 companies were collected only from the lease of the land of this one company. It was only possible because it was the law, and there were some gentlemen who could use it to subdue themselves. It was a change of law at the time, with that law. But someone guaranteed it, someone allowed it. I personally know the employees who work in these establishments, I talk to them and I know that if they had then Really anything to say, they would say. But all they had to say was that in order to get on the board, they had to have more exams, more exams... and, what's very important, as you remember, exams were about those who weren't Communists at the time. Because if someone behind the communes was the director, the president, then, as you know perfectly well, the exams were not passed, they were fluent. The exams were for those who wanted to enter the company. And that was one of... [[And that's what happened?]] It was, it was. Well, you'll have to check it out. For those of you who wanted to step in. And that's why these exams were getting harder every year. This is going to change slowly, because the structure of our society is changing naturally. And I would therefore like to say one more thing, present, so that it is not that I am only criticizing the actions of the predecessors. I also criticize the actions of modern authorities if they serve to realise their own profits. It's not like we don't make mistakes, even today. And it's not like you're the only ones making those mistakes. Although the fact is, there were quite a lot of them. We could finally start learning from these mistakes. What the Ministry is proposing has one gigantic advantage that you do not seem to notice. Very well-educated people, who are theoretically the most and best suited to business management and supervision of these companies, sometimes fall into pathology. I am talking specifically about such a case, which I know personally from Polish reality: a group of very wise people, brought to the management of some plant in Poland, in the field, was so smart that she could get along on her own in this narrow, narrow group of specialists, create operations, in quotation marks, and bring money outside. Not much, it's all legal. After all, you know very well that opinions can be taken, e.g. legal, which costs several hundred thousand zlotys from opinions. Why not? Of course it's to the detriment of the plant. It would seem to me that to the detriment of it, but it is lawful. And now, why am I talking about this? Because in this particular case I quoted, the workers, these elementary workers, had knowledge of it. So what if the company, the State Treasury company, if the state secret, all the certificates... Even if he had knowledge, he couldn't share it, because that would be the disclosure of the state secret of this company. He'd lose his job and have legal problems. And these are pathologies that happen all the time today. Let's not kid ourselves they're not here. And thank you to the Minister for trying to respond in this way. I don't think it's just about the way Mr. Senator used to say that these particular employees, who have been there for 40 years, who have been working for 40 years and who have this support... It is also a matter of taking into account this basic, elementary, i.e. employee factor, which today is not included in the boards. I'm from Kędzierzyn-Koźl. In Kędzierzyn-Koźlu there is a management board of a large company, Grupa Azota, and there is no one from Kędzierzyn-Koźl. Oh, no, it is today. Today he's acting president, he's... [[Voice from the room: Oh, please!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But it's only because the previous president resigned. This one's on duty for a while. But this is the first such case in decades. For several decades, the presidents were outsiders, well-educated outsiders. Today we already know history and we know that this education, I would say, acted in both directions: the plant functioned properly, but unfortunately each of these people can be attributed certain expenses, let's call it morally reprehensible, albeit lawful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u303	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is not only why I am speaking because I was provoked by the name of the call of Rulewski, but very polite. The senator also betrayed the part of the polemics that were taking place in the clowns. I don't think I'm a loser, but I haven't convinced Senator Mroz since he started here after this conversation with us making heretic views that I have to face. [[Voice from the room: Why heretical at once?]] Senator, don't be offended. Here's what I'm gonna say. Of course, it's about privatisation, because that's what I wanted to talk about, and I'll talk about it later. When you say that here are these magnificent establishments, including industrial ones, today they bring in the presumption: under the power of the PIS The profits, you're the one telling the truth, even tempting truth. But the Lord forgets the context, namely that for this to happen, those who manage these companies I think it's good... you had to go through the entire commercialization-privatization path here. At the beginning of this path, among others. Here present, but also thousands of managers in state-owned companies at that time, because only state-owned were, they had no idea what the commercial code was. What's more, you forget that it was all in debt, you forget that you needed some oxygen for these companies, and that oxygen they didn't want to give up for us and private entrepreneurs. ..bankers.. or our creditors And those of the state. But what happened happened. I'm not saying it was the optimal solution, but... On the way there were also such elections won by the SLD. I don't think you're going this way. First of all, we are not interested in pensions, betting efficiency, betting efficiency, betting efficiency. I saw one of your prominent politicians, who, when Wałęsa as President of the State considered whether the state, whether the Polish community or the Polish nation, or the economic political interest... I don't say partial ownership business. That's when I saw one of your politicians throw, smoke, or participate. We have chosen this way by which we can say today that our economy is neither Belarusian nor Ukrainian, nor even some others, with private property, even Greek property. It is stabilized and the state property operates on market principles governed by law, control and success. Very good. So I want to put an end to this topic by saying that I am opposed to the extreme doctrinal terms that fall here: not for privatisation, and after us even for the flood and for privatisation, even if someone needs help. Yeah, not for privatisation. There's Orlen. What's going on? There is a state board, and within a year there are 2 changes to the board. Are you saying that this is a positive phenomenon for all investors, for consumers? And I'm gonna say, I'm hurt by this kind of management of Orlen. Orlen received everything, 1,200 stations, crews also got something, participated in all this, and I'm paying the highest price in Orlena for gasoline, oil, gas. [[And now it's going to be taller.]] [[There'll be another raise.]] And why did you change CEOs? You dumped your best men there, not only managers, but also people with party ideology, and you changed them. I do not mention that a journalist who has never been involved in promotion in her life has become one of the company's main strategists in terms of promotion. And that's why I'm against the extreme that requires a veto for privatisation. But I am also, of course, against, I am not hiding, to this priest privatizing Balcerowicz, who says: there is nothing else but privatisation. And that's how I signed up for this bill, which, as I see it, has bad axiological assumptions that the employees... And I am saying this because we were involved in creating a pact about an enterprise that was the essence of which the state and I sign, that we believe in the goodwill of people, in their good intentions, but we should also believe in their knowledge, that they can make a joint effort on the basis of dialogue in the company, if not the maximum profits, at least the necessary profits. But the necessary profits are not enough either. It's not enough to have just 2%. profit, what are you talking about? You have to have some time to maintain your competitiveness, 20% of your profit. And here, by the way, is the issue of "Lot"... Actually, I'm sorry. I forgot about that. This flight, in my speech, which speaks today about this saying that it is not for privatisation, because it is good... The flight behaved precisely because it was supported by the Polish state on the basis of the consent of the European Union, freed it from the obligations that you and I would all have to pay. Let's hope this adventure of Lot is successful, but I say that Lot will not stay on this market, which is run by lions and dogs such as German Lufthansa or several American companies. Why do I think that Poland still faces huge tasks, especially in mining companies? We're still having a crisis out there. They make profits, we just forget, especially the state you forget there are huge subsidies on mining, which means they don't make profits. They bring operating profit under the law, but they're not really net profit. What's more, we've come to the absurdity that we're bringing more coal than... than... [[...we're extracting...]] ...and we export, which means there's a market, too, because it just doesn't pay to export. Okay, but does it pay to work so hard, and with a huge state grant, which I think, Minister, if I'm wrong, is 250 billion zlotys, i.e. the money that maybe is missing for the power plant? I believe that it is in such a combination of good unionists, crew members and board members, which are even from the party nomenclature, that there can be success. But I'm also aware, Mr. Senator, just like you. I told you... You're not gonna take your money to the wrong bank. I am aware that the board of directors, including workers, workers, whatever they call it, will invest where the most money can be earned, that is to rob those who own it, and maximize the profit, not just earn it. That's what I believe. But in order to believe that, I say, you have to have knowledge. I would indeed agree with the Minister here. It doesn't have to be at the time of the election. But I'm sure it's important to make a commitment that, as a member of the supervisory board, this knowledge will evolve. Now it's something that's important. There is a statement here that representatives represent workers. No. The Supervisory Board is Okay, I'm gonna stress this. . the body of the company. It is responsible for many, many things, including privatisation. It is in the supervisory board that decisions are made. There are representatives of the owner and opinions are issued there. This owner is, of course, a country that has its representatives. Let them act with full knowledge, let them act. This advice should, in my opinion, stop being a union, a management or a state. She should be the supervisory board of the company, because that's what she's chosen to do, and that's what she's committed to. So it's not just about defense, because that's what trade unions are for, collective agreements... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] At the end of the day, it's an appalling thing. That's what I know about it, because it's what I've been doing. It was about shutting down Ciech. They say there's been abuse. Well, I can say that kind of the testicle of Ciechu, or Soda, in my district was drowning. With Ciech. There were strikes and demonstrations. Today I can say that Soda is investing in. And the sale of this Polish, Kujawski product is finally profitable. For the Kulczyk family, but also for the workers and for the city of Inowroclaw, which receives taxes. And so on and so forth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the rulers now believe that the state is better and that it was necessary to maintain the state property at the level at which it was at the time of the Polish People's Republic. Not only here, it is not only in this discussion that I hear voices that the state is better, and therefore nothing should be changed. This, in my opinion, is false and dangerous. I also hear voices that it's a shame that the PGRs have been eliminated. [[Not all of them.]] Well, if the state were to be better and the PGR would function well and bring income, then in 1989 and 1990 we would enter with a thriving, great economy. Were there pathologies? Of course they were. But what is today, the economy that is developing, is the result of certain actions, as well as the restructuring that these activities have caused. And now a few, in my opinion, adjustments. Mr. Senator, Flight. I hear about this because every once in a while somebody invokes it and says: "Lot fell, and when we came to power, it blooms, it brings income. Yes, sir. But, Senator, you should also know. 'Cause you read the same thing I do and you listen to the same thing I do. That when the flight, so to speak, lowered its flights and had problems, it received funding and State aid. Due to the problems, he had to for some time eliminate many of the most profitable lines, and just when, as you say, you came to power, this withdrawal period ended and the flight opened new lines to the Far East, additional lines to the United States Sana. And that's why there's been a change in the lot. You should know that. They say, "Shipyards, you've destroyed the shipyards." This is repeated by people who do not know at all about the maritime economy, on shipyards, do not know what they look like at the moment. People from the south say that. I understand that they know shipyards better than others. But wherever the shipyards are privatized, they bring income and function well. The repair yard in Gdansk, ladies and gentlemen, builds the most modern ships, electric ferries. She's mastered the Norwegian market. He's building cable cars. He's building specialized ships. It is there that a trawler was built for the Polish Navy, very complicated, with a very difficult construction. In the territory of the Gdynia shipyard, which has fallen, more people work at the moment, in various companies that operate in its place. The whole yard's functioning. That's tens of thousands of people. This is the situation in the Tricity. What if it's in Szczecin, where the shipyards remain the way they were? There was a lot of combing, a company was set up, and debts were removed, and then they were converted, and so on. And it didn't work out. In the yard of Gryfia, the minister and the state activist who supported the shipyard of Gryfia led the yard to lay a keel under the ferry In the shipyard, Gryfia, which had not built ferries, and for several or several years did not build anything. So the keel was laid. You should have bought that keel somewhere else and solemnly unveiled it. That keel's still standing. And at the repair yard. 'Cause she's private, or maybe because she's in Gdansk. Who built the ferries, those ferries didn't order. Well, now it's gonna have to be. If Poland is to build ferries, it will have to order them where these ferries are built. And such attempts, such combinations that we will combine something here, that we will build together here, that this private shipyard will build something with that in Szczecin, regardless of the cost... This is the situation in the shipbuilding industry. What about the shipyard in Gdynia? When the Gdynia shipyard fell and there were no decisions, there was a prominent activist of the current PiS in this Gdynia shipyard on the employee's behalf. Very prominent. He was laundering money on the board of directors. He wasn't on the employee council at the time, because I don't think the employee council was there yet, but on the board of directors. What else are the employee councils that we have set up by law. They don't actually work or work marginally. [[Employees.]] [[Staff council.]] [[Yeah, employee council.]] Yeah, employee council. But this is... you know what it is, employee council. They were supposed to manage not so much as represent all employees, have an impact on different activities, etc. The supervisory boards have other competences and other obligations. You can't confuse that. I am concerned that this amendment of the law is intended to ensure that union activists can easily sit on these staff councils and receive additional apanages. They're gonna be such fat cats, because once you pick a union activist, you're basically for the rest of your life. This election is just a fiction... [[Fictitious and sad.]] ...and in all relationships, not only in connection with Solvency, but also in OPZZ. And at the end of the pathology. If you think that the state is better, make sure that those state officials manage the people who have the right preparation for it... [[Qualification.]] ...and qualifications. After all, at the moment the State Treasury companies are filled by PiS activists, positions of all levels. In Energa, in Gdansk Energa, the board changes for the fourth or sixth time. I've already stopped counting. All subsidiaries are filled by PiS activists, by local PiS activists. The mountain is still to be divided, for the central nomenclature, but below, subsidiaries are already the nomenclature of the voivodship committee. Senator, look at KGHM, these subsidiaries, how they're filled. That's what he's calling for revenge from heaven. And of course this is happening, even though there are certain criteria, criteria for supervisory boards. So these criteria can also be avoided or not applied. Yes? That's what it looks like. I'm not looking at Orlen. The second board of directors in Orlena and other changes to what is happening in other companies are really small changes, small changes. But somewhere else It's a horror movie. [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] In Energa, in Lotus... The second shift isn't much, either, but you've turned people into executives. In all subsidiaries, yes, all directors were mentioned in all subsidiaries. And you're saying it's okay that it's for the good of these companies. Yes? Let me not believe it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u307	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 744, and the report of the Commission In print No 744 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report on the work of the committee on the amendment of the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products - Senate printing No 744. The Commission worked on 6 March. The aim of the Act is to add to the tasks of the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles the tasks of carrying out laboratory tests on samples of agri-food products for the implementation of the mechanisms of the common agricultural policy and the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. Intervention purchases and sales, private storage aid are carried out under the common agricultural policy mechanisms, while the European Fund for Aid The most Deprived is to carry out laboratory tests on samples of free-food products. Both the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the National Agricultural Support Centre do not have their own laboratories, and it is therefore advisable for the IJHARS to carry out the tests as an individual equipped with laboratories and a properly developed test methodology. In carrying out its new tasks, IJHARS will cooperate with the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture in the framework of the implementation of the common agricultural policy mechanisms and with the National Agricultural Support Centre in the framework of the implementation of the European Fund for Aid to the Most Deprived. The Act gives the President of the Council of Ministers the power to modify the budget by means of a regulation to the extent necessary for the implementation of the Act. The Act is to enter into force 7 days after the date of the announcement. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u309	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Jacek Bogucki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Your Senate, I'm about to announce a recess by 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. There's still an announcement, right? [[Yes.]] Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll start at 6 p.m. from information for the Polish Parliament and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2017, i.e. during the presidency of Estonia to the Council of the European Union. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u310	Thank you very much. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment on the review of the Law amending the Hunting Law and certain other laws will take place on 7 March 2018 at 8.15 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the first reading of draft resolutions on the 50th anniversary of March 1968 will be held tomorrow at 8.30 in room 186. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-06-senat-57-1.u311	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 19]]
