ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose supplementing the agenda with items: the Act amending the Act on Employee Pension Programmes, print No. 816 and considering this item as item of the 21st agenda; the Act on Central Communication Port, print No. 824 and considering this item as item of the 21st agenda; the Act on Personal Data Protection, print No. 811 and considering this item as item of the 23rd agenda; the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, printing No. 812 and considering this item as item of the 24th agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to the introduction to today's agenda of the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws... [[It's not there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u3	But, Mr. Senator, it's not there. [[I'm sorry.]] Senator, that's not what this is about right now. It's tomorrow morning. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, tomorrow morning. There's no point now. You're Senator Rulewski, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u4	I object to the inclusion on the agenda of this meeting of the fourth paragraph, which Mr Marshal called the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts and the Supreme Court, given that negotiations are taking place in Brussels concerning, euphemistically speaking, the rule of law in Poland, having a direct impact on this law. As you know, both sides are willing to continue negotiations. Anticipating the status of termination in this bill would mean we're being ridiculous because we're introducing a bill to which there'll be further laws... There can't be any senator for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u5	I understand, Mr. Senator, you have expressed your objection. [[Yes, objection.]] Yes, sir. And you explained it to the senator. Good. Are there any other votes on this proposal to complete the agenda? I understand that we are now going to vote against the senator's motion, which is my... I mean, who's in favour of introducing point twenty-four to the meeting: the law on amending the law on the system of common courts, the law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. That's my conclusion. You objected. Who's in favour of my motion? Who's in favor of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who abstained from voting? We'll get the results back in a minute. We can do it now. You're welcome. 58 senators voted, 42 against, 16 against. [[Voting No 36]] [[It doesn't work for me.]] You have to put the card in properly. But we've already voted it out... It works for me, Mr. Senator. [[Yes?]] Does it work now? [[But what voice was this voice counted as? It's not glowing...]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that my proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, print No 812 has been adopted. We will consider this item as the next item, item twenty-fourth of the agenda. Dear Senators, after considering the 21st item, an hour's interruption will be ordered. After the first point of discussion today, there will be an hour's break. After the first one we're considering today, which means it's not gonna be point one, it's gonna be point 20... and I'm gonna say... After item twenty-first, yes, an hour's interruption will be announced after the twenty-first. Tomorrow, May 16th, the session resumes at 10 a.m. In case of preparation by Senate committees, the order of the current sitting will be supplemented or may be supplemented by: the Act on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws; the Act on the promotion of new investments; the Act on the amendment of the Law But it's gonna be tomorrow, so we're not voting on it right now, it's just information. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes. The text of the Act is contained in print No 816 and the committee report In print No 816 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Now, in time, I would like to present to you a report from today's meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the revision of the Act on Occupational Pensions. The aim of this amendment is to align the provisions of this law with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014, which, as Poland, should be done by 21 May 2018. This immediately results in one of the provisions proposed in this Act saying that the Act enters into force immediately after publication. There is simply no time for a transitional period, for a vacathio legis. What does this bill contain? Several decisions that are important for workers on the cross-border labour market, which move, when companies change and sometimes end their business. It strengthens the position of the employee so that during periods of entitlement to participate in the programme the employee can receive the money due more quickly, the benefits due, even in the form of reimbursement. So far it has been so that in order to obtain permission you had to work even 5 years and more, now it is enough that you work 3 years. In the case of workers who work in Western European countries, these 5 years were far too much and in a situation where there were occupational pension schemes, they were really losing everything. The European Union has recognised this problem and proposes that this period be reduced to 3 years. Those who carry out these schemes will have to adapt to the new obligations, i.e. to amend the relevant regulations on occupational pension schemes, until 1 January 2019 under the strict principle of nullity of existing contracts contrary to the amendment, as the Act requires these amendments to be made. It is beneficial for workers, but also for employers, to change information obligations. Well, at the request of the workers, they will have to be informed in writing. In the event of termination of employment with the programme's employer or in the event of the liquidation of the programme, the amount collected in the account of the participant of the funds shall be understood in a way that is understood by the terms and conditions of the acquisition of the right to pay. This information shall include an instruction that, in the event of a refund, a participant should consider legal advice. Employers will in turn be immediately able to receive information from the managers of occupational pension schemes on the value of the funds collected in the employee's account and other data that are necessary. The bill did not raise any controversy at the committee meeting. The vote was unanimous. It seems to me that this will improve the situation of almost a thousand companies that run occupational pension schemes in Poland, and those 390 thousand people, i.e. 2.5% workers who have already raised 11.5 billion of capital in these programmes. As I say, we are entering into uniform European solutions, so of course the implementation of this directive will also improve the situation of Poles who work abroad. During the discussion, the Minister informed that, despite the changing labour market, there is no increased interest in occupational pension schemes, which is why the government is working, I understand that this is already advanced work. On the introduction of employee capital plans, which may be an attractive proposal from Pillar III in the collection of savings. They should be collected against the weaknesses of this solidarity, Zussian-Krusai pension security. On behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Any of you ladies and gentlemen want to ask a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At the meeting we welcome the representatives of the Ministry headed by Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a question to the Minister from a place lasting no more than a minute. Does anyone want to ask that question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. As I understand it, Senator Jan Rulewski signed up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It would be inappropriate not to speak on the employee issue by the member of the Solidarity Group. I will start by accusing, or actually commending, the European Union for encouraging our authorities to take initiatives in favour of Pillar III for pension reform, in which many people on the right took an active part, I think you are not denying it today. In the third pillar, it provided for the possibility of insurance in various forms of individual insurance or, as today's law says, in occupational retirement schemes. And that was good. The bad news is what the Senator rapporteur has already said. Well, he says that this third pillar did not play an attractive formula in the working language, despite the favourable provisions of the law which impose a specific obligation on the employer to participate in this program. And if this program is taken up in a given facility or facility Because this also applies to educational, cultural and other entities, and even private entrepreneurs. This is an obligation to pay a contribution of 7% on remuneration. , of course from the funds of the establishment, plus, of course, the possibility of recapitalisation this contribution with its own contributions. Data indicates that only a thousand of these programs have been recorded. Over these many years, only a thousand agreements, a thousand work programmes have been registered. And I would add that, although they are of a staff nature, they are not necessarily involved in those persons who, in the future or even now, may be missing at the end of the month of the relevant pension or pension. And what kind of institutions do that? Well, those where there's a lot of money, economic operators, e.g. Heat plants, mines or budget units, where in turn there may not be high wages, but there is a guarantee of employment. In other words, it's hard on the garbage deal. And now my comment on the government's actions. First of all, I point out that this bill was adopted at the last minute and even too late, a few days too late. I hope Brussels doesn't hear that. That's why this deadline, which is why this law has been in force almost since yesterday. But what is perhaps more important is that I have not noticed that the government, based on care, various concerns, different perceptions, and this solidarity, and this need to care for people, veterans of work, has made sufficient efforts to popularize these programs or even such changes, so that they become the welfare of workers. Such efforts are not seen, instead we are dealing with the deterioration of the pension system, not with its sanity or use of its good sides, and this is the good part is the participation of entrepreneurs in the future life, pensions and pensions, workers. That's not the kind of effort I see. I don't see them, to tell you the truth, even in the central institutions, where they might be, especially in the Ministry of Labour. Well, I don't see any such programs coming up. It is important that so far they have not been attractive. It is also difficult to burden any governments with a lack of, say, ambitious or aggressive even advertising, the popularization of this in recent years, due to the fact that there were other financial instruments that outweighed the attractiveness of the offer offered by occupational pension schemes. It was up to 30% from investments in various funds. However, now, for at least two to three years, for a few years, we have been dealing with a situation in which investment opportunities under favourable conditions, even in terms of in-plus, have decreased. Such financial instruments on the Polish securities or financial deposits market are no longer present. There are known cases. Banks are currently applying a virtually zero interest rate. Investment funds or even corporate funds after a year give 0.4% capital increase. Also, our bonds, fortunately, have not been revalued, do not yield the same profit as before. And that is why I hope that the Minister, also with the stamp of Solidarity and the heart of Solidarity, will not be pushed forward with European Union directives, that we will even be ahead of them. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u9	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u10	High Senate, I inform you that the meeting of the Legislative Committee on the continuation of the first reading of the resolution on the 70th anniversary of the death of Captain Witold Pilecki will take place half an hour after the announcement of the break in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u11	I'm ordering a recess until 12.20. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 21 to 12 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Central Communication Port Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 824, and the report of the Commission In print No 824 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Misiołek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! At today's meeting, the joint committees The Commission for Infrastructure and the Commission for Territorial Government and State Administration have examined the draft Act on Central Communication Port. The committee was attended by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mikołaj Wild, who proposed the bill. Then there was a discussion during which two senators had some doubts about the validity of certain provisions of this law. A single legislative proposal has been tabled to delete the article. 131 of the Act was also requested to adopt the Act without amendment. In a vote joined by the committees by 8:2 votes, they adopted the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u14	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You signed up for Senator Florek. You're welcome. And Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I was at a committee meeting, but only at the end, because unfortunately today the PKP failed me. I would like to ask if you talked about the source of funding for this investment. As I heard about the area, the Minister said it would be okay. Three and a half thousand ha. But I'd like to ask you about the source of funding. How would that possibly look? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u16	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u17	There was no such discussion. The funding was not discussed at the meeting of the Joint Committees. [[It's gonna take some shit to do.]] [[Tax...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u18	You're asking Marshal Borusewicz another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u19	I actually have almost the same question. I would like to ask you why this 35 billion PLN to make this investment... But I understand that that's the kind of detail the committee hasn't considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u20	There were no such questions. [[Thank you. I'll ask the minister.]] But during his speech, the minister did not speak on the subject, he did not mention the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u21	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, Senator rapporteur. First: is what we always do when we build a house the most important thing is presented at the committee meeting? When we build a house, we always do the so-called. analysis, because we finance it from our own wallet and we need to see how much it will cost us, what the initial costs and the final costs of the investment will be. Because 50 years in my life I've been paranoid and paranoid about investments, I know how to prepare them. My question is simple: whether such a typical economic analysis was presented at the committee meeting, from which not only cost but also what will be called cost-effectiveness. It's such a basic economic vademecum. And the second question is, did the government ever talk to the inhabitants of the Baranów commune where this central port is to be built? From what we hear, from what I read and heard, it appears that the inhabitants are probably against it. Is that true?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u24	I'm answering the first question. We didn't talk about financing investment costs at the committee meeting. As far as the second question is concerned, yes, the question was asked, what would be the case when residents of a municipality, e.g. in a referendum they will speak against it. Well, the minister said that it would be necessary to talk to the inhabitants of these municipalities, to convince them that they would simply have to use a method of talking, convincing them that there are not only negative issues related to construction, with such a large investment, but also positive issues that are related to the possible subsequent development of this region, this municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u25	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the first question is this. As far as I know, after the liquidation of the 36th Transport Aviation Regiment, the areas previously occupied by the military unit are usable. The question is: did you at the committee's meeting talk about this option, or was it not better to simply expand Okęcie instead of building a new airport in the open field? And the second question is this. We know that there is Okęcie, there is Modlin, there is a lot smaller airport near Łódź, Lublinek, etc., etc. And investments have been made at these airports in recent years. Has any analysis been presented to you at the committee meeting, what will happen when these airports, which are being invested today, cease to function because the Central Communication Port absorbs all these passengers? Thank you very much. [[Warsaw is not made of rubber.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u27	Thank you. On this subject, we did not talk about other ports, we did not talk at the committee meeting. There was a brief mention of the fact that Okęcie airport is nearing its end of development opportunities. Here on Tuesday last week, exactly a week ago, a study meeting of the Infrastructure Commission was held at the Okęc airport, but this is not the subject of this meeting which I report. So if the senator's interested, I'd be happy to... [[Yeah, okay.]] ...information on the possibility of developing the Occasion, but that's later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u28	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u29	Mr. Senator, part of a second ago, but he answered this question so quickly that I would like to ask. I wish, if that were the case... But I would ask for an in-depth response. Will Chopin Airport in Warsaw and the Modlin Airport be liquidated in connection with the construction of the Central Communication Port? If so, how long? Is there an idea? What about the charges? Because the Polish state has had huge expenditures on both these airports. Was there a speech about that? And second question. Was there any mention of how many people will be exterminated and how many people will be affected by these changes? I mean, simply forcing you to change your place of residence. Did she mention that? [[Who would say?]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u31	There was no discussion at this meeting about other airports, namely Okę and Modlin. We talked about this at other committee meetings, but, as I say, I'm not going to refer to the previous meetings. And about... [[Location decision...]] [[Transfer.]] ...the second point is because, as the Minister said, the location decision has not yet been taken, it is difficult at the moment to talk about the number of people who will have to be expropriated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u32	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u33	And have you talked about a situation that could happen, even with a high probability that this investment will either not be started or will not be completed and people will be expropriated? And then what about those who were expropriated? [[There was no mention of that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u35	No, that kind of question didn't come up at the committee meeting. [[So, what was in the meeting?]] [[So, what was in the meeting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u36	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u37	I just asked, quietly, the question: what was it, Senator rapporteur, at the committee meeting? Because I hear there was nothing at this meeting, including the location issue. And now the second line. And I'm afraid to ask another question, because it certainly wasn't there either, but I'm gonna ask because maybe the minister knows something. Well, it's a big investment, even if it's-- I believe it's going to work. Will there be European support? That's one thing. Secondly, there was no business plan, but... [[What was the question?]] ...you need to know who you're building this airport for. Was it at least said what kind of people would be the customers of this airport? For free, for everyone, but will there be customers for this airport? [[Please?]] Was there a speech about... It's called marketing. You know the word "marketing," right? Market research. [[Voice from the East Room.]] [[Voice from the room: What question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u38	Mr. Senator, about who this airport is destined for... Well, it's meant for passengers. [[But who...]] We know that when the Central Communication Port is established, the Okęc airport will be closed for passenger traffic. Therefore, the airport we are talking about here, as the main airport of the country, will take over the functions of the Occasion and perhaps even a few smaller airports. [[Will they have money?]] But who's gonna have the money? [[Passengers.]] Oh, I don't know. The senator is asking me a question that... [[Mr. Senator, please direct the questions just a little bit...]] Mr. Senator will forgive me, but I'm not the Holy Ghost. I can't tell who's gonna have the money and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u39	Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u40	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm going back to that first question you asked Senator Rulewski. I'd like to do it again. Maybe in two sentences you could say 'Cause we all didn't take part in the committee meeting. What you talked about and what the main elements of knowledge were at the committee meeting. That's the first question. And second question, Mr. Senator. Is your decision positive in that sense, because you are the rapporteur? Was it based only on the bill, or did you have any analyses, studies, studies? Did you have a document to look at? And have you personally, as rapporteur, read this document on the airport decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u42	We had comparative material, and I personally got acquainted with the entire parliamentary debate on this bill. [[And the first question? The first part...]] [[What were you talking about? What were you guys talking about?]] The Minister presented a report on the bill, said what the bill was about, how it would work, and then the senators asked questions. To those senators who had doubts, the minister responded to these doubts. They mainly concerned expropriation in the case of areas, the area to be occupied by this airport. And all the questions the senators asked were answered.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u43	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u44	Mr. Senator, the Central Communication Port isn't just an airport. 1/3 of the funding will be allocated to the construction of high-speed rail networks. Today LOT operates basically on domestic lines, 60% LOT's revenues are national lines. If we build a network of rail connections within 3.5 hours to reach the capital, how will this affect the condition of LOT? And can this national carrier just stand it? Was that what the committee was discussing? [[It wasn't.]] [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u45	No, there was no discussion about LOT. If the senator is interested... As I said, a week ago we had a committee meeting at Okęcie Airport, where such cases were discussed. We discussed this issue for several hours with the President of
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u46	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to share with you such a question which, I think, raises some reflections. They are not only economical, but also logistical. At the moment Okęcie airport in Warsaw is located nearest to the city center from all airports capitals of Europe 7 km from the centre we have an airport which can be, just as the senator sitting next to me rightly noticed, expanded and can of course increase capacity. However, after the construction of the airport in Baranów we will have an airport located farthest from the center of the capital from all European capitals. That's exactly how it's going to be 45 kilometers. There is no capital in Europe that would have an airport so far away. The construction of this port and the closure of Okęta means, above all, the degradation of Warsaw, its declassification and deprivation of its metropolitan function, and the deprivation of its competition with Prague, from which to the airport is 10 km or with Budapest, where it is 16 km. In turn, the airport in Brandenburg, in Schönefeld, which will be one of the largest in the world, is to be opened next year 11 km from the centre of Berlin. And we most importantly, Warsaw airport want to move so much that 7 km will turn into 45 km. There is such a basic question about the fact that there is a lack of logic in logistics. It's not easy for passengers, it's difficult. I would like to share this reflection with you, rapporteur, Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u48	Mr. Senator, there was a brief information from the Minister at the committee meeting. All analytical work on airports indicates that the airport should be located not more than 50 km from the city centre. I'm gonna let you share... You may not know this document, but there is a document called the Central Airport Concept for Poland. The document was prepared on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure and dated 26 June 2010. It is available, you can read this document, 226 pages. It is already stated in the introduction of this document that the airport in Okęc in the perspective of 2035 is unable to handle passenger traffic and therefore the central port must be built. It was a document drawn up at the request of the Minister of Infrastructure in the government of Donald Tusk. [[And did this document take into account the possibilities of expanding the existing Occasion? That's what Senator Libicki was talking about just now.]] Senator, look at this document, in it, as I said, already in the introduction it is said that there is no possibility that the possibilities of the Occasion are limited and close at some... actually at the moment they are almost maximized.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u49	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u50	Thank you very much. Could you tell the senator what the public consultation on this law was like, how the local authorities spoke about it, how representatives of regional airports in Poland spoke about it? In most big cities, or at least halfway through, we have these airports. What did it look like, as the inhabitants of Warsaw said in the public consultation on the liquidation of this airport in Warsaw? Tell me, too, how long was the committee sitting at all, since there were so few questions, and so few questions were raised by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u51	I'll answer that. The committee meeting lasted 1 hour and 10 minutes. And as for the public consultation... It was a government project, there's a minister here, and he'll probably be able to speak up in a minute, and that's a question for the minister. At the committee meeting, we did not discuss public consultations, apart from this one issue, possible referendums in municipalities, as the Ministry will try to solve this problem. That's what I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u52	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, on Friday we were talking about the CepiK bill, we were saying that the Sejm passed it, and she came to the Senate right away. We had no legal opinion, but yet such a large, extensive bill was passed in the Senate. Now we're talking about a law that, within 20 hours, passed the first, second and third readings in the Seym, but fortunately it was Saturday and Sunday, you could read this law even though I read it thoroughly. I'd like to know what the Legal Bureau's opinion on this bill was. You also spoke about the 2010 document. etc., well, it's been changing a lot for eight years, so it needs to be updated... Was this document updated then? But the first thing is, what was the Legal Bureau's opinion on this case. And I would also like to know what guests were invited to a meeting on such an important bill, who still attended the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u55	Thank you very much. As far as invited guests are concerned, they were invited by the management of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Supreme Chamber of Control... [[And the uncle...]] ...someone else... I'd have to look at the guest list, who else... From the U.S. Attorney General... [[And the commune wasn't there?]] Please? [[The commune wasn't there?]] No, it wasn't, but which commune was it supposed to be, if the location isn't yet known? Well... [[The uncle wasn't allowed in.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u56	Are you done? [[Yes.]] The question is, Senator Klich... [[Voice from the room: What's the opinion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u57	Oh, an opinion. Yeah, he was... [[I'm sorry.]] ...was a patron, a representative of the Legal Office, gave an oral opinion on the bill, raised some objections to some solutions. That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u58	Mr. Senator Klich. [[There was no written opinion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u59	Mr. Senator, the extension of the regional airport, much smaller, in Krakow, I am talking specifically about the third stage of the expansion. It lasted about 5 years after my decision as the then Minister of National Defence to transfer tens of hectares to civil operators and the possibility of joint management with the military of the runway and taxiways. It was 5 years of terminal expansion, building new access infrastructure, building multi-level parking lot, hotel and probably something else that I can't remember at the moment. This is a microscale compared to what is planned as a central airport. How does the Ministry assume that San Francisco will be able to be built in a long, but still a short time in an honest field?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u61	Mr. Senator, I think the most appropriate person to ask this question would be the Minister. I am not a representative of the executive authority and I am not a planner for this investment, and it is therefore difficult for me to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u62	Now, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u63	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The construction of a new airport is a huge investment. Even today, it is difficult to say how great, how huge the cost of this whole project will be. Did you analyze at the committee meeting the problems related to financing this investment in the context of construction of infrastructure in Poland? In the last 2 years construction has been suspended or tenders have already been announced for the expressway network. A classic example is the Kashubian route from the Tricity ring road to Szczecin. Its construction has been halted due to lack of resources. Now the minister says maybe something will move here. Nevertheless, everywhere and at every stage, the lack of funding for basic road infrastructure is highlighted. The highways were built, but the expressway networks were not built. Will the decision to build an airport not stop road investments that are already designed, prepared and extremely needed? Will this not lead to such a situation that the entire extra-metropolitan area, located outside Warsaw and large centres, will be switched off by communication, because the work will not be completed, because it will accumulate funds for the construction of the central airport? And that also requires building... for all of this to make sense, the airport has to be connected to various high-speed rail networks and so on. Did you analyze it? Have you asked the Minister such a basic question? How can we get money for this, and how can we do so so that we do not slow down other work that is necessary today? When I'm driving, for example. In the Middle Pomerania, I see there... It's extremely difficult to get there from any city. Roads are broken, old, broken, etc. New routes were to be built. In the days of the previous government, tenders were announced, but everything was stopped. And it's said that it's been suspended due to a lack of resources. The government is also talking about another big investment, namely the construction of a nuclear power plant. This cannot be done without the contribution of the state budget. And it's supposed to be built around the same time. Have you considered how all this will be financed and what to do so as not to disable the communication of inhabitants of areas such as the Central Pomerania? And there are many such areas in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u64	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u65	Mr Senator, the Minister referred to this during his speech at the joint committee meeting. He said this investment wasn't just an airport. It will be a multimodal transport node, to which will have to be added networks of high-speed trains connecting north to south and east to west. They're gonna be intersecting just where the communication port is. Even in the title of the Act it is said that this is the Central Communication Port, not the airport, because it will be the task of connecting different parts of the country. Therefore, there will certainly be an expansion of these networks of rail and road connections.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u66	Okay, but that's not what I'm asking. I'm the one who knows, we know more or less that there's an airport, that there's gotta be knots and connections, and so on. But how do you finance those tasks that are to be done today? What, they're gonna be stopped to build these... And now there's just gonna be a connection between this airport and major metropolitan centers, and smaller centres will be excluded? That's the idea, isn't it? That Poland is only one airport? Well, that's some completely absurd idea. If we don't make this sustainable development, we're not gonna make the investments we need so people don't feel so communicative... Who is it to talk about such great things? For who?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u67	Mr. Senator, the question is clear. You'll be supplementing the senator if you need anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u68	Mr. Senator, as I said before, there was no other investment during the meeting. [[But that's the basic question.]] During the meeting... Yeah, but senators can ask any questions, no one limits what questions they can ask. That's not the kind of question they asked. [[Okay, but how are you guys planning an investment like this without a basic...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Senator Kleina, for discussion, please...]] I'll say it again. We're considering the Central Communication Port Act. The bill was a government project. The government that prepared this project has a concept. And this concept, Minister, I hope, will present. I ask me, as chairman of the committee, not to ask for the details that the government is pursuing within its concept. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But it doesn't make sense...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u69	Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u70	If, as you said, eight people voted in favour of this bill at the committee meeting... There were only two people against it, right? Then tell me what the Minister seduced those eight people who put their name on the line and voted in favour of this project at a time when, according to today's discussion, the answer to a dozen questions asked today And there were certainly more questions at the committee's meeting. The financial aspects of the project are unknown. And if If these financial issues are presented, the financing of this Central Communication Port shall take into account the costs of the entire infrastructure referred to here in the questions, i.e. access roads, railways, etc. etc.? Because it also generates costs. But above all, what were you seduced at this committee meeting that you accepted these arguments and in some sense decided to adopt such a law? We would like to know at least a few of these very important arguments and your point of view, the views of the members of the committee who voted in favour of this law, those 8 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u71	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u72	Well, Senator, maybe I'll tell you first what the purpose of this bill is. The aim of the present law is to create a legal and organisational framework for the implementation of this investment, a central port. In this act we are talking only about a certain legal and organisational framework, about how all this will be done. This is not a law which refers to what all this will be financed and how it will be financed. These are separate issues. The second question you're asking is, what did the minister seduce... Well, it's hard for me to tell what he seduced the other seven colleagues with. Me with clarity of speech and readability of presentation of the project. [[The question is, Senator Wach...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But what framework...]] No, this law creates an organisational and legal framework for this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u73	Sure thing. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, was the work of the committee presented, even in outline, a timetable for the work? We actually know from the press that in 2027, at least it seems to me that this work is to be completed. But has the work schedule been presented, and in particular has it been said when the implementation work begins? Because for now, it's a very preliminary phase. What is the timetable and when will the concrete implementation work on the investment begin?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u75	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u76	During the committee meeting, the issue of part of the timetable was raised, of course, not the whole, but the question of the deadline by which the localisation decision should be issued. The Minister spoke about 2020. And from that moment on, it will be possible to... [[It's too soon.]] ...to talk about a further schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u77	You're asking Senator Infantry a question. [[What about me? I volunteered earlier.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u78	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I wanted to ask you the question that the Senator said. I meant whether the Minister mentioned earlier ideas about the need to set up such a central port. Mr Senator mentioned today that such a concept had already been born in 2010, fully justifying the need to build a central port without the possibility of achieving further communication objectives by the port of Okęc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u80	Thank you. Yeah, I made that concept, she's ready to read. This is a large document, prepared on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure in 2010, a more than two hundred-page document, which makes it clear that there is an absolute need to build such a port because Okęcie has almost exhausted its development opportunities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u81	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u82	Senator, you said a moment ago, unable to answer one of the questions, that you are not an executive, but a legislative authority, and that certain questions to the legislative authority... And I totally agree with that. But if we exercise legislative functions, and to a large extent also... above all control, this audit, which is carried out by the committees, by the chairmen of these committees on the subject matter of the committee, requires certain information and opinions. Mr. Senator Czarnobaj's question about economic analysis, but some in-depth study of this has escaped the subject, because Mr. Senator only said that you analyzed what was going on in the Sejm. But that's not the answer to the question. I would ask you very much to tell me whether the committee has been given a study on cost-effectiveness and how much it's going to cost, what it's going to be... Were there such studies? And that's my first question. Maybe they weren't there, and then it'll be very simple to answer that. And the other. You were talking here about the 2010 study, but I remember that at the moment when Modlin was created, there were studies that just countered that direction, because I remember there was a political push, more than 10 years ago, between what the government is planning at the moment, and the concept of Modlin. And there were studies that clearly stated that Modlin together with the expanded Okęcie are absolutely able to withstand transport possibilities. Did you have any other such studies at the committee meeting that were at the time of the decision on the Modlin? Those two questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u83	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u84	About the first question... Senator, in the Committee on Infrastructure before today's meeting, we were preparing for the debate, among others. Before today's committee meeting, we stayed in Okęc a week ago, where we discussed with the president and the board of directors about exactly what the possibilities are. This is very detailed, very precise. There were senators there, they had a chance to get to know it, ask questions. From what has been presented to us, it is very clear that Okęcie has completed its development opportunities and is no longer able to accept more passengers. As far as Modlin is concerned I'm talking about what was said at the previous committee meeting, not at the last one. These are certain constraints, both infrastructure and legal, as regards the merger of these two ports. According to those who have developed this presentation presented to us, it is not possible for these two airports to take over the functions of the central airport. The members of the Infrastructure Commission had the opportunity to look at these issues at the source a week ago, because of the President of the Airports. [[Thank you very much for extending this statement to the information from your visit. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u85	You're asking Senator Tight. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u86	Mr. Senator, we already know that there was no debate at the committee meeting about finances. But the bill assumes the creation of a special purpose company. Was there any discussion about who was to be a member of this company? How will these potential members of the company be persuaded to join this special purpose company and invest? 'Cause they're probably gonna have to invest some of their own money in building this port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u87	Thank you. Mr. Senator, yes, there was a discussion about the company. The question was, isn't it better that it was a state-owned company, or is it better that it was a special purpose company? The Minister argued that it would be better if it were a special purpose company, because the company had more opportunities to operate. With this company And the minister also stressed that. It will be a 100% company of the State Treasury. It will not be possible to sell the shares, i.e. the 100% owner of the company will be the State Treasury. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u88	Thank you. [[Can I ask you a question?]] You want to ask, don't you? Okay, Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u89	You did not answer my question as to whether there was a discussion about how these companies of the Treasury would become a member of a special purpose company. Will it be a matter of their will, of declarations, of wanting to be beneficiaries, or will it be a decision of a minister who will arbitrary determine the composition of this special purpose company? What will be the mode of creation of this company?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u90	I think that's the question... That is a question you should ask the Minister. Well, he's here, he'll be answering in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u91	Thank you. Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u92	Mr. Senator, I don't have any substantive questions for you because I like your senator, and I don't want to upset you. But I have a question for you as a senator, a colleague, and not for one term. Don't you think that an hour-long debate at a committee meeting on such a crucial issue as the Central Communication Port effectively destroys the Senate's thesis as a reflection chamber, and very much sustains the thesis that the Senate must be wound up recently?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u93	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u94	Mr. Senator, no one has restricted the senators, the members of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the possibility of discussion. The sitting was not concluded in the course of the discussion. The discussion ended, after the discussion was over, no one asked questions, did not want to speak, and therefore the committee's deliberations ended. There was no situation that the senators wanted to ask further, they wanted to discuss further, but for some reason we had to close the committee meeting. That wasn't the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u95	Thank you. I'd like to ask Senator Philip Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I may not be an expert in communication, but... my neighbor, Mr. Senator Komarnicki, has been talking about a long-standing airport in Brandenburg. Well, from what I've read, there is a great deal of trouble at the airport for those who are to serve as such a central communication port in Germany. I'm not talking about the fact that the original estimates have been repeatedly exceeded. There are voices saying that the very idea of establishing this airport is slightly missing the goal and that it is not really necessary. Did you, in discussing at the committee meeting about our Central Communication Port, somehow use this German case, analyze it? Or, for example, The ministry assured you that perhaps this situation in Germany is happening for some objective reasons That such troubles as the Germans have, or what well-organized nation, we are able to avoid when building our Central Communication Port? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u97	Thank you very much. About the comparison to the German airport... This was not the subject of the committee's analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u98	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u99	To the previous question about those paying, about what users they're going to be, you answered very simply. Passengers. There are senators of Silesian land on the committee. Why doesn't this airport arise where there are most people? People, I think, not the poorest. In an area adjacent to countries where there are no such great hubs? Have you given up without a fight?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u100	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u101	That's how I'm gonna answer it. If someone plans to build such a port, as the Minister said, he must take into account that such a port must be centrally located so that from different parts of Poland it is possible to reach this airport at a comparable time. ♪ This time ♪ This is not information from this committee meeting today, but from this one week ago. It should be from 2 hours to 2.5 hours. This should be the amount of access from larger centres in Poland to this airport. I deliberately said passengers. If I said that only Poles, it would not be true, because this port will also have the role of an international port, a large international airport, as well as a connecting airport. There will be passengers from other countries who will cross through this port. As I say, this is the information from the meeting with the President of the Airports. [[Is that a deal with them?]] [[How's that?]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u102	Mr. Senator, you're still here. Yes? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u103	Does your reasoning suggest that the airport in Africa should be in Sahara? [[If they build it, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u104	Okay, okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u105	I'll leave that question to you, Senator, unanswered. I'm not a specialist in airport construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u106	Mr. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u107	You've touched on this subject a little bit, but I'd like, by analogy, to build a nuclear power plant... the choice of its location was a process of several years. And rightfully, because it's a very important, crucial decision. Did the committee's meeting present, in addition to such general points, that there should be access, etc., a detailed analysis of why such a place was chosen? I would like to add here that, in this first case, it was very important to have regard to this community project, of course. Was that even considered here? I would ask for information on how it was at the committee meeting and where, possibly, scientific studies could be found that would indicate an optimal location. A little bit of you, Mr. Senator, and I'm flying, and I'm gonna say that I haven't been going to the main airport of any capital for two and a half hours, fortunately, because someone was thinking. So I'm curious how it's figured out here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u108	Well, there was a discussion at the committee meeting about the location. The minister, reporting, said that the location decision would be taken shortly. Well, the case is pretty... [[Isn't that a decision yet?]] It's pretty obvious, there was a conversation about it too. The point is not to speculate on the ground. Well, if it's said early enough that it's going to be right here, the value of this land is going to grow rapidly and speculation will occur. Among other things. It's this bill that we're working on today that's supposed to be eliminated. Therefore, where this location is... I suppose that's what I suppose The government has some 1 or 2 or 3 locations that it will announce at some point, but only when the possibility of speculation with land is blocked. It was said that the location could not be more than 50 km from the center of Warsaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u109	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u110	Mr. Senator, the novelty in the bill is what hasn't been in any special laws so far, which is a land reservation. There'll be a reservation for two years. The reservation of the investment area shall be made by the voivode in the booking plan and made in the form of an order constituting an act of local law. And, of course, after this act has been issued, there will be some restrictions on this reservation. There's, for example, in the bill. It is stated that there will be a ban on building permits, a ban on building conditions, a ban on property distribution decisions, a right to buy real estate, i.e. if one person wants to sell the property, then the special purpose company will be able to buy the property. And it's supposed to work for two years, but to make a location decision. You said that the Minister said that the location decision would be issued in 2020. In order for a location decision to be made, there must be an environmental decision, a division must be prepared, because the decision approves... etc., etc. So I'm already saying today that this decision isn't going to be made for two years, for example, because environmental decisions... In the case of one of the carbon discoveries, environmental decisions have already been issued for several years. What about the reservation then? What happens after two years? Because that's where it's said absolutely that it won't be possible to extend it. If we buy something and the investment doesn't happen, what happens? This period of 2 years threatens to block residents from various types of activities, as well as possible claims that they could not do anything during that time, and the localization decision was not, because this deadline is too short, it is simply unrealistic. Did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u111	Yes, Mr. Senator, we spoke, the senator himself asked that question to the minister at the committee meeting, so the answer to that question... [[I'm talking about what happened before. Because I was asking... what happened after I got here late, I know, but what happened before.]] On this subject... you, Mr. Senator, asked a question and the Minister answered that question. We didn't talk about this at the committee meeting earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u112	Senator Philip Libicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have this question: did you at the committee's meeting discuss why a special proxy institution was set up? Because as I understand it, this is supposed to be one of the biggest and perhaps the biggest Polish infrastructure investment in the coming years. And it looks a little... Because the attorney is, as I understand it, appointed by law, while the Minister of Infrastructure... well, this ministry can be eliminated simply by a pure government decision. Therefore, it seems that the position of proxy will be something in the formal sense stronger and stronger in terms of responsibility for infrastructure in Poland. What does that come from? Or, for example, The result of any misunderstandings in the government is that this is how it's constructed... that it's like the Ministry of Infrastructure is duplicated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u114	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u115	Thank you. Mr. Senator, we haven't talked about the attorney, his powers and powers. That wasn't the kind of conversation we had at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u116	Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u117	First, I'll refer to the senator's answer. Let me remind you that when I asked you if an hour-long discussion of such an important project did not prove that the Senate was unnecessary, you said: well, you could have asked questions, and if there were no questions, then it was over. That's what I'm talking about, Senator. That's what I'm talking about, eight senators representing most of them didn't have any questions about it. [[You can come to the committee meeting and ask questions.]] No, sir, don't direct this to me, don't direct it to me. There's a proper committee. I have my committee, I come to her meetings, and I have questions. So that's it. And here's the question. Namely today we have international flights from various airports, e.g. from Cracow there are many international flights, from Gdańsk, from Poznań, from Szczecin. Will all these flights be moved to this central port after the Central Communication Port is organized, or will they still remain there? What will be the role of these airports, let's say regional, which are not really regional, because this is not just about internal flights, but also about serious foreign flights?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u118	Mr. Senator, I'm here to use the information from the meeting with the president of the Airports last week. No, these airports will not be excluded. The role of local airports is foreseen for them. There's a lot of... Passenger traffic services are not only based on cruise flights, but also on charter flights, cheap airline flights, etc. And probably the idea will be that local airports will be taking over these other types of passenger traffic.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u119	I'll just ask if you don't mind. If so, why don't you treat the Sun as one of those airports? Why lock them up?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u120	Because the development opportunities of the Rounds are over, and the demand for passenger air traffic is much, much greater. [[You've said that before.]] Those who study air traffic and its development dynamics claim that in 2025 Okęcie will no longer be able to accept the number of passengers to be served. [[But I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna do a little bit of that. I'm telling you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u121	Mr. Senator... [[Yes? Sign up?]] I'll let you in... Yeah, I'm on the list. [[Write that down.]] And now Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u122	Whether it is appropriate to acquire these land and buy-outs in accordance with the Voivodeship Act, whether it is the newly established special purpose company, or whether it will be done as it is done in energy investments, i.e. will this be done by the general contractor on the basis of the contract design and build?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u123	Mr. Senator, the details of the land purchase... that question is addressed to the Minister. There was no discussion on this at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u124	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Augustine. [[I already did.]] Excuse me, Senator Borowski. [[Already?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u125	Mr. Senator, I probably didn't make that very clear. Anyway, the answer was next door. Even if we assume that there will be such a Central Communication Port in the place where it is to be set up, and it will take over some part, as we hear, of a very large part of the movement, and also an additional part, etc., and yet there will remain airports in cities such as cities. Kraków or Gdansk, or Poznań, with international flights, I ask why Okęcie cannot remain, maybe even limited. The Lord says: but it can no longer expand. I don't want to expand it, let it be limited. The point is, like a Krakow resident when he wants to fly, I don't know, to the United States. 'Cause, I guess, there's a flight out of there. He takes the suitcase and goes to his airport, not to Łódź, so the Warsaw resident does the same on Okęcie. Then why are you closing Okęcie?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u126	Mr. Senator, I didn't say close Okęcie. [[You did.]] [[He did.]] At the meeting with the President of the Airports, it was made clear that Okęcie would completely change its character. It will change the nature of the central airport, which is now, to some other, unknown which. We as senators asked questions about what airport it would be. The president said that there is no decision at the moment, but it will certainly not be a Polish central airport anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u127	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u128	Following this lead, because this is an important lead, let's note that from all the ministerial mouths... As it was at the committee meeting, I do not know because I did not participate in it, but in all public statements it is the closure of Okęcie airport. I would very much ask that we speak precisely. There are many cities in the world, but I'll mention 2: Barcelona and Brussels, which have 2 airports each: one within a dozen kilometers El Prat in Barcelona, Zaventem in Brussels and the second in a considerable distance, several dozen kilometers away Charlesoi in the case of Brussels and Girona in the case of Barcelona. Both airports are functioning, so I ask you again: does the government have an idea to close Okęcie? Why would we close it if there are two airports in other major metropolitan areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u129	Mr Senator, the committee was not discussed by Okęc airport, it appeared only in a brief statement by the Minister who mentioned that Okęcie had already completed its development opportunities, that it could not develop further. As for the fate of the airport in Okęc, as I said, we were on a study trip last week and we spoke as the Infrastructure Commission with the President. This wasn't the subject of the committee, but if the senator's interested, I'd be happy to tell you what happened last week at this studio meeting in Okęc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u130	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u131	Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna be able to google all those statements right now about Okęcie being shut down. In the meantime, I don't know if you've noticed. The local government campaign started in Warsaw and one of the candidates says that it is one of the basic elements for him, and the other does not know what to do with it. Suddenly I hear that the PiS is about to retreat from the liquidation of the Occasion. Very well, because it would be the dumbest decision, just tell me why you didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. After all, it is not the President of Okęta who decides whether Okęcie will be closed or not, that is decided by a completely different grammar. Thank you. [[Kaczynski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u132	Senator, we've been talking about the Central Communication Port Act. There was no talk about the future of the Round. [[I'm here on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u133	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u134	Mr. Marshal, could you remind all the senators that, in part, including questions to the Senator, there will be questions to the minister, the expert on this matter? Instead of tormenting our sympathetic senator, you can ask all these questions about the Occasion Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u135	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bielan, this was not a formal matter, which I draw your attention to. And I'm also pointing out that I'm the one driving. I'm in the middle of a debate, and I'm in the middle of it. If you have a question, go ahead, but it wasn't... [[Mr Marshal, the Rules of Procedure provide for a formal proposal on the way in which proceedings are to be held. And that's in this category.]] It doesn't fit in this category. I'll let you ask questions. [[In my opinion, it fits.]] [[It doesn't fit.]] If you change me in this place, your opinion will apply, Senator Wind. [[You don't deprive me of...]] There you go... Thank you very much. Thank you. Maybe it'll be in the future... You're welcome to ask more questions. No more questions? [[Well, well, how the club worked.]] [[And what was that for?]] [[Voice from the room: What was it for?]] [[How effective... 100 percent efficiency. Now you should have told the law...]] [[I was effective.]] You were effective, but not regular. [[Voices from the room: No mode...]] Good. I'm interrupting this discussion out of mode. The bill's draft was filed... Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The government's position in the course of parliamentary work was authorised by the government's representative for the Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland, Mr Mikołaj Wild. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: With pleasure.]] Good. And then you'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u136	All the more reason to be happy. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I'm very happy to be here, and I can defend not only the bill that was the subject of the committee's action... Because today, at the committee meeting, we were dealing with the bill, not the decision whether to build the Central Communication Port or not, we were debating the creation of a framework. I am very pleased to be able to take advantage of the situation and talk a little bit about the concept itself, even though the government's resolution which adopted the concept contains answers to most of the questions you have asked. It is published on the Internet, i.e. Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 7 November last year, which is also available in English on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure. However, as I said before, I am very pleased that there is an opportunity to talk about this investment because this investment deserves it. The first question that comes back here is: why? Why charge yourself for an investment like this at all? [[Exactly.]] The answer to this question is: because it pays off, because it comes from analyses that have been ordered consecutively by all the governments of the years.... in the 21st century. So, governments... At the end of the SLD government, an inter-ministerial selection team for the location of the central airport indicated... The interdisciplinary team said that we needed such a port, he said: we need such a port, because we expect Okęcie Airport to exhaust its capacity, it will reach its limits, so we need a new airport for Warsaw. Moreover, it was not revealing because already in the times of the Polish People's Republic, when the Ursynów estate was located, it was known that for social reasons the airport would at some point be a problem. 2003... In 2005, a feasibility study was prepared for the location of the central airport. It was prepared for PLN 1.5 million by the Ineco-Sener consortium, which not only carried out an economic analysis and here it was again stated that a central airport should be built because it pays off But it also analyzes the location. About the locations. Because this issue also appeared in your statements There's a problem. I'll add that it's about the locations indicated earlier. There is a difficulty here, because the locations that were examined, also examined by the Ineco-Sener consortium in 2005, were selected on the way You can say the local beauty pageant. It has not been analysed where, from an economic, environmental and traffic point of view, it is worth building an airport, but it is said to the local authorities: "Who wants to have a central airport at his place, let him come forward." This is how the site was chosen, so reported dozens of locations that were investigated by an inter-ministerial selection team for the location of the central airport at the end of the airport ♪ Like I said ♪ SLD governments. These locations have also been studied by the Ineco-Sener consortium and this method has already been criticised, because in this way it is not the choice of the location where the airport should be built, just as the gold mines are not arranged where people would like to dig and find gold, only where there are deposits. It's 2010. After the Government of Law and Justice reported to the European Union funds, to the PAIiIZ funds, analyses concerning high-speed rail and central airport, the Minister of Infrastructure in the Civic Platform and PSL government manages the preparation of feasibility studies. 12 million PLN for a feasibility study designed to answer the question whether we need a central airport and tens of millions for a feasibility study on high-speed railways. Two scenarios were then analysed. First scenario We eliminate Okęcie, we build the Central Communication Port. The second one, we try to spread the movement, just as the politicians of PSL have advocated, if I remember correctly, throughout the whole Republic. Again, for the third time already, the conclusion of the feasibility study was clear: build, because it pays off. Build, because around 2018 and 2019 the port of Chopin will encounter such difficulties in satisfying the growing movement that it will not be able to cope with it. And the minister was canceled, the feasibility studies went to the shelves. Nothing has been done besides the construction of the port of Chopin by roads of high speed, apart from changing the port of Chopin into a road node in such a way that it is not possible to further expand it, so that it serves more than 20 million passengers per year, maybe more than 22 million. That's the problem we're dealing with. So, when you asked me, you actually asked the Senator rapporteur, but I take this question as a question addressed to the government side. If the decision to close Chopin's port has been made, I answer: "Yes, it has." It was taken by the government of the Civic Platform, housing the port of Chopin in such a way that it could no longer be expanded more. [[That's not true.]] This is... [[Okay, then we'll have a vote.]] We're here today. And what are the next steps in a situation where the forecasts commissioned by a specialized forecasting company, probably MK Metrics, work out like a string? The port of Chopin reaches its limits. It's trendy 'cause it's the only way I can say it. The duoport theme, i.e. We have the port of Chopin, which is, as the guests from abroad say, it's so cozy, the Germans say gemütlich, is so small, friendly, sympathetic, located nearest to the centre... It's true, only, unlike the senator thinks, I believe that this is proof of the provinciality of Warsaw, not its development. We have a port located very close to the centre, in which the area of limited use lives 285 thousand people, surrounded by residential settlements, and we have Modlin, whose financial situation nobody knows, because there is no code of commercial companies and representatives of state legal entities that have the majority in Modlin... Modlin is not a regional port, and I would like to remind you that at this point, the port in Modlin is a port where the majority have state legal persons who do not have access to the company's basic financial documents at the same time. The idea of a duoport would be very attractive if there was one element, that is, LOT would go bankrupt. If there were no LOT, then the national carrier of the Republic of Poland could be Ryanair or Wizzair or Lufthansa, and then we could lead to a situation where we could tolerate the dispersal of traffic in favour of passengers. What is the dispersal of movement? To answer that question And here I apologize if I say the obvious, but I think it's worth it. We need to distinguish between grid traffic, from point to point, and hub traffic, transfer traffic. Grid movement, i.e. offered from regional ports, is that airlines open at medium distance usually at medium distance, sometimes at long distances, if the length of the belts so permits. It's a very profitable connection. What are profitable connections? These are connections that we are able to generate within the region. So the regional port for Małopolska provides passenger service from Małopolska, the regional port for Mazowsze provides passenger service from Mazowsze, the regional port for Pomerania provides passenger service from Pomerania. That's the idea of volleyball. However, the grid movement has 2 limitations. The first of these 2 restrictions is the lack of infrastructure to operate long-distance, intercontinental flights. Over time, this element can change, because modern aircraft need more and more infrastructure, we can fly more and more planes that we have only been able to fly through Europe until recently. There are already first examples that such aircraft fly through the Atlantic, narrow-hulled. But there's another flaw in the point-to-point system, the grid system. This disadvantage is that we are not able to operate, to offer such directions that we do not have an overlay from the inhabitants of the region. If the inhabitants of Małopolska do not want, they are not interested in flying to Gothenburg every day or flying to Hawaii every day, then we will not generate a traffic that will provide a profitable connection. That's the problem with grid connections. And how do airlines deal with this? The airlines cope with the fact that from regional ports and from various airports which are treated, as is said from English, as Feeders, or Feeders, they feed their base port, i.e. their hub, passengers from different regions of Poland or from different regions of Europe, in order to then send their passengers in directions to which the demand would be too small in regional ports. And now let us refer this situation to the situation which is in the Republic of Poland. In a situation where there is no LOT If LOT had gone bankrupt It's a very special kind of movement. On one side of Europe we fly low-costs, and it happens, cheap airlines are, we tolerate that they are subsidised by regional airports. On the other hand, if we want to fly long distance, we use ports located in Western Europe such as Munich, Vienna, Frankfurt and Paris. This is a scenario that would have happened if it hadn't been for LOT. Central Communication Port... I am not discovering anything new here, these are the arrangements that were also adopted in the development created during the Civic Platform. Such connections in case of operation of the network carrier can be operated from Poland. Then passengers, especially passengers travelling eastwards, and the Far East are the most dynamically developing segment of air traffic... Then passengers travelling not only from Poland, but from the region of all of Central and Eastern Europe to the east do not need to go west, to the western hubs so that they then travel in a non-economic, inefficient cost, bad for the environment, roads, time-consuming way of traveling east, only on the most economical route. The scale of the ethnic movement that we are dealing with in the Republic of Poland is also invaluable, to put it simply, the scale of the movement that involves immigration from our region to the United States. This is also a specific feature of our market, and by our own, I mean not only the market in Poland, but the market in Central and Eastern Europe. Therefore, the Central Communication Port pays off, which is why it is a profitable undertaking and therefore the duoport does not constitute any alternative to the Central Communication Port. And I have to say again: if there wasn't a LOT, you'd think of a duoport. Now a few Okęcie issues. Wouldn't it be advisable to leave the Occasion as it is and build the Central Communication Port? Fortunately, we build a communication port at a certain point in history, when we can already benefit from experience, including negative know-how, gathered in other countries. One of the basic errors that were made for other such investments I refer here, in particular, to the example of Montreal Airport, which was leaving the old operating airport. Because what would it mean for our economic situation to leave Chopin Airport in Warsaw? This would mean that intercontinental flights, flights offered by a national carrier would take place from an airport located And here's the corrigendum, 36 km, not 45 km... and I'm going to tell you where the 45 km error comes from. So it's 36 km from Warsaw. And LOT's competitors would use a port located 6 km from the centre of Warsaw. This is a situation that... I ignore whether it would be profitable. I ignore whether it would be profitable, whether it would not affect the profitability of the project, but during meetings with investors, during meetings with technical advisors we are taking place, one of the first questions that weighs on the profitability of the investment is the question: but you are moving traffic from the port of Chopin to the Central Communication Port, not building traffic from scratch, do you provide a stable basis for this undertaking? So... With all due respect to the opposing voices, we consider the idea of leaving any part of the civil traffic at Chopin's port to be wrong. What can you... What do we mean, maybe Chopin's airport will still function in some form? Decisions have not yet been taken in this area But I trust they'll be taken sooner rather than later. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. as regards activities related to the provision of national defence in the port of Chopin, in the current port of Chopin. There is not yet a decision made in this regard. I trust these decisions will come to pass. Personally, I am in favour of a consistent return of these areas to Warsaw. Because this is an opportunity for Warsaw, this is an opportunity for 285 thousand inhabitants who live in the settlements surrounding this airport. And now questions about location, questions that are coming up. Of course, in the course of the... Connector to the concept of preparation and implementation of the investment Central Communication Port, adopted by the government last November, which concept, as I said, is also available on the Internet. There is an analysis identifying 2 areas where such an investment can be created. Speaking of this kind of investment, we are talking about investment in the form of a central airport, because this was the profiled task of advisors. Contrary to earlier analyses, which were based, as I said earlier, on such a beauty contest among local governments, two areas were identified. One is an area of 100 km2 located near the town of Baranów, and the other is 60 km2 located near Grójca. However, the analysis of the railway network shows that investments in the vicinity of Grójce are completely wrong if we want to think of Central Communication Pot as the main point not only on the air map of the country, but also on the railway map of the country, i.e. as the main connecting station for the Republic of Poland. Question... Oh, I'll go back to where the difference is between 45 and 36 km. If we look in a straight line from the spire of the Palace of Culture and Science to the port of Baranów, that is, on a railway route, it is 36 km. If we look at the A2 route, then to the current passenger service point of the Aries is 39 km, which is exactly what it is to the Modlin. On the other hand, if we are counting the access to Baranów according to the existing road network, as I think the critics of the project are pointing out. In other words, with a partial motorway exit, with a break through the communal roads, then we actually reach 45 km. But this is a completely inadequate distance, not giving away the scale of the project and not giving in to the reality of the project. I would just like to add that the new airport for Lisbon, which is now moving from the conceptual stage to the location stage, is located at a distance of 40 km. So how about a Barcelona variant? Why don't we leave... what's bothering us, like Senator Klich said? The problem is that in the case of airports of the same kind as the airport in Barcelona, located on the seashore, the intake network can be so shaped that it interferes minimally with the lives of residents. In Poland we do not have this comfort, and therefore we cannot construct the airport as it is done in Barcelona, we cannot have an airport where traffic would be provided in such a non-intruding way. Is the time of 10 years real? This is twice as high as the rate of investment. That is, it is twice as long as the new investment for Istanbul or the new port for Beijing. There is one and a half times more than the time when Denver's new airport was being realized. However, we are aware that this type of investment and this kind of schedule is an extremely tight schedule. And that's why the fact that a few kinds of work goes on at the same time. They run out, for example. currently traffic forecasts ordered by Polish airports in the IATA association, which will determine whether we need a port with capacity, in the first stage, 40 or 45 million. The Polish Development Fund's analysis of location, multi-criterial analysis of location is also ending. Thanks to these analyses, we will be able to identify 2 locations that are necessary, which we need to identify the needs of environmental research. That's how we proceed. We are aware that we are working on this at the same time, but we are convinced that what we are doing is based on data and not on mentalology. There was a brief question as to how the port "Solidarity," because this is the name of the Central Communication Port "Solidarity" will affect the operation of regional airports... [[NSZZ.Solidarity is reserved for Szczecin...]] NSZZ.Solidarity... We are aware that in Szczecin there is a port of NSZZ Ladies and gentlemen, regional airports, as I said earlier, offer a different kind of service. For people who fly around Europe, it is quite natural to use the airport close to home. For people who want to fly further, for people who want to fly to places where the region does not guarantee demand, the Central Communication Port creates The question is how does this affect the profitability of domestic LOT connections. It's a tradition. And it's not a secret. According to Germany, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. These aren't profitable connections. These are connections in which airlines invest in order to make money on long-distance connections. Therefore, we do not anticipate the fluctuations in profitability, profitability of LOT as part of the domestic connections will be taken over by the Central Communication Port. I also trust that we are all aware that rail transport is much more... It is not only temporary, but also cost-effective and less burden-bearing for the environment than air transport. As far as what is important in terms of deadlines is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, please note that what we are doing now in terms of linear investment, namely the preparation of new railway routes, the preparation of the development of the road network, which will provide passengers with free access to the port of solidarity, is actually preparing plans for the future EU perspective. We have time, we do not interfere with the plans that are currently being prepared, but we are acting with full awareness because the Central Communication Port will be able to achieve the European Union's objective of less transport burden for environmental relations. The Central Communication Port also fits into the TEN-T corridors and can be a hub on the TEN-T core network. We consider it natural that the European Union will participate in this project. I'm talking about linear infrastructure, not because it's in our interest, just because they've been launched. TEN-T funding. I will also add to that what sounded like last week, which is the issue of defence. The Central Communication Port may also constitute an entry point for NATO troops. The development of railway infrastructure for the Central Communication Port is an important element, and as you well know, this subject is beginning to be strongly stressed, also at EU level. At the end of March this year it was published so-called. action plan on military mobility. It is simply a subject that the European Union is also starting to face. I'll try to answer all the questions. So much for the vision and the basic reasons why we decided to invest.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u137	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And I'm the first one to enter, Minister. I have a question for you about your funding. [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Yes.]] How are you gonna finance this? You mentioned the European Union, but others, e.g. The Germans will not necessarily want to support this investment. They have their hubby, but it's secondary. Well, 35 billion zlotys is a huge sum. What are the measures? You're gonna finance this? And a more specific question, such an approximation. You said the eastern lines were very forward-looking. Is there an expected share of Chinese capital here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u138	Thank you so much for these questions. Maybe in the first step I'll break those 35 billion into components and explain what the individual amounts are going to do. [[And at what time.]] Yeah, and at what time. The amount of 35 billion consists primarily of an estimated amount of PLN 16 and 19 billion. These are just estimates, closer amounts will be specified in the feasibility study, but in these estimates we move. This is the amount allocated to the construction of an air-rail node, i.e. the port itself. This includes not only the purchase of land, but also the establishment of this airport-rail infrastructure within the limits of the junction. The amount in this respect shall be treated as an investment directed towards the financial rate of return. And in this respect we allow the involvement of investors, including private investors. It is a tradition that, with large investments, contractors from other countries provide financing on favourable terms. No decision has been taken in this respect. We're before... We are aware that such decisions have a geopolitical value, they have a strategic value that goes beyond the economic viability of the investment. In this respect, we believe that as a state, precisely because of the scale of this undertaking, we can expect some kind of offset, i.e. some actions that maximise the benefits of financial engagement for the economy as a whole. For innovation, other than strictly financial objectives. Another amount, estimated by the indicators given by PKP PLK at 8 and 9 billion, is the cost of a new high-speed rail connection. At the same time, when we talk about high-speed trains, we're talking about connections that allow us to travel at a speed of 200.250 km/h, i.e. within the range of pendolino warehouses. In this respect, we regard it as investments that are no longer directed at the financial, but at the economic rate of return. Traditionally, this type of investment is generated by public funds, traditionally such investments are returned through their impact on the economic development of the country. And in this respect, we are counting on EU co-financing, because, as we know, the Union is putting its weight on the railroad. It seems that it is high time that Poland also began to put on the railroad. For the past twenty years, we have reduced the rail network, not expanded it. Further amounts, depending on the scope of the investment, are amounts related to the large ring of Warsaw, i.e. the highway bypass of Warsaw. These are amounts, depending on the scope of investments and budget opportunities, ranging from PLN 1 billion to PLN 7 billion... [[How much?]] I'm sorry, between $2 billion and $7 billion. It's up to you to decide how wide this ring should reach. Such investments are also dictated by the economic rate of return and not by the financial rate, so here we provide for public funding partly, we do not exclude EU involvement. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, of course, large amounts. We are aware that these are large amounts But I'd like us to find a point of reference. Over the next three years the expenditure related to the national railway programme will reach PLN 70 billion. These are expenses that are scheduled not for the next 9 years, but for the next 3 years. If we add to that the expenditure of the national road programme, this expenditure will exceed 100 billion. We believe that an investment in the Central Communication Port is indeed the biggest investment because... Money flows into one place, money flows into one particular investment. They are not scattered around Poland. Of course, we assume within the programme and within the framework of the concept which was adopted by the government, the extension of the railway network by 830 km of new routes, but with regard to the scale of the investment and the investment effort which is currently, I would say, implemented, the amounts are incomparable here. As far as the schedule is concerned, it is the following. A brief explanation. The Act provides for 3 stages of the investigation into a localisation decision on the basis of which land ownership will be transferred to the investor. The first is a regulation of the Council of Ministers, which allows the preparation of the investment site. This preparation also limits to some extent the management capacity in the areas covered by the future investment. The duration of this limitation is 2 years. During these two years, materials should be prepared and consulted socially to enable the voivode to adopt an arrangement under which the land requested by the senator will be reserved for the next two years. The validity of this order shall be two years. In other words, the maximum time we predict here, until we get a location decision, is 4 years, not 2 years. This is the maximum time, Mr. Senator. It will be 2 years of validity of the Council of Ministers regulation and 2 years of validity of the regulation of the voivodeship. Environmental research lasts at least one growing period, which is a full year. For this, it takes time for the environmental report to be reviewed and environmental decisions to be obtained. We predict it won't take less than six months. So the minimum time that is possible here, the time for environmental research, that's a year and a half. We believe that the four years that are included in the project are sufficient time for all preparatory work to be carried out. Lands that are purchased by the company before obtaining the location decision may then be... If there is a decision that we want to build the port of Solvency in cooperation with a private investor and that it is desirable to establish e.g. the company dedicated to the construction of the node itself, the land can then be transferred to the company as an import of the State Treasury or, to be precise, the import of the special purpose company. The special purpose company itself, whose task will be to coordinate hundreds of processes, which will take place simultaneously for the next 9 years, will remain throughout its activities, so we assume a 100% company of the Treasury in connection with the amendment of the Property Management Act. We include it in the catalogue of companies in which the Treasury cannot reduce its involvement. These are the companies listed in the article of the Property Management Act in an enumerative manner. I hope I took a stand on the case. [[And then there's the Chinese capital...]] Chinese capital... [[What you said about the first part, about the air and rail infrastructure, is 16 and 19 billion, and that would actually fit into Chinese public money. Is there something...]] Decisions have not been taken in this respect. [[But you're considering it. Yes?]] There is an interest of the Chinese party in this investment, but any cooperation on such a scale with our potential Chinese partners is a decision that goes far beyond business decisions. So in this respect, decisions have not been taken.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u139	Thank you, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Could I get information from the Minister about what kind of strategy paper you're working on or the group you're running? It is about this document, which was the subject of an examination of the Council of Ministers and on the basis of which the Council of Ministers adopted this resolution. I read that resolution, and I'm not gonna... In the discussion, I will talk about what I think about this wonderful document. But tell me what strategic document the Minister presented at the Council of Ministers to convince the members of the government of this right decision, according to the Minister. That's the first question. And second question. Minister, the resolution mentions, as far as I remember, that the model for us is the airport. im. Charles de Gaulle. In support of this resolution of the Council of Ministers. Would you mind referring to some similarities and saying what? Because I don't know this airport and I'm not a professional, the Minister is probably. If you don't mind... And a third, short question, Minister, because I didn't have time to read your entire story... Could you tell me if you were in charge of such a large project in your life, or is this the first project in terms of implementation or implementation? Is this the venture you're starting from? Such an important task, at the level of 35 billion PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u141	Now. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a strategy paper first. As I understand it, the question goes to the analyses that have been carried out. [[No, Minister. Mr. Marshal, may I...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u142	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u143	Minister, from 2003 and 2010 I know. In the meantime, I've gotten to know one thing and another document. As much as you can at that time. I mean, that's the thing. I come to the Council of Ministers meeting, I say: listen, I have a proposal for the implementation of a central airport in Poland; and I submit the following analysis. And this is the document you presented. If you could tell me what document you presented to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u144	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u145	The resolution of the Council of Ministers, which we are talking about, is the resolution of 7 November, and in the annex is the concept of preparation and implementation of the Central Communication Port. [[From 2010, right?]] No, from 2017. It was the implementation of the decision taken by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2017, I presume. The resolution is available on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the annex is also available there. Now the question about de Gaulle airport in Paris. Well, let me put it this way. Of course, the answer to this question is a little embarrassing, because in fact de Gaullea airport was the first airport where high-speed trains were synchronised, they were integrated into an intercontinental airport, only that it was in the 1970s. [[Why?]] The problem is that, today, de Gaullea is one of the worst airports in terms of experience in Europe and does not constitute any benchmark for us. The idea itself, the idea of integrating the port... [[You mean, Minister, the pattern. Because not everyone can understand the word "benchmark."]] Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry. [[Speak Polish, please.]] Polish Language Act, Polish Language Act... This is not a reference point or a pattern when preparing the Central Communication Port. It's just an idea. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The idea of integrating intercontinental airport and high-speed rail Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, This is the execution of the 1970's. Since the 1970s, when the TGV was introduced, until today, from the point of view of the development of the aviation market it has not passed a decade, the entire era has passed. If we were looking for reference points, we would rather look towards airports such as Incheon, which supports Seoul and is located 50 km from Seoul. But despite the fact that it is located 50 km from Seoul, access there is guaranteed in an impeccable manner. There is also an airport serving Singapore, a port of Changi, and there are airports that are currently being created in the Middle East for Gulf carriers. Because, whether we like it or not, Europe has lost its primacy over airport investments. From the point of view of airport, airport-rail investment, what is interesting in the world is happening in closer and further Asia. Now, about my management experience... My comfort in this situation is that I am not the president of a company that will manage it, which will be operationally managed. I am a representative of the government, whose task is to keep an eye on the strategic parameters of this project. This assignment has been entrusted to me for two reasons, I suppose. The first reason is some experience that I acquired in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury, now the Republic of Poland, the second experience that I acquired in managing, supervising on behalf of the State Treasury Polish Airlines LOT, when they rose from the situation in which we found them. Let me put it this way. [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u146	Question? Do you want to fill in, Senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u147	Mr Marshal, Minister, in that case, after listening to the Minister's statement, it should be pointed out in this resolution that what concerns benchmarking or reference points, in the context of Charles de Gaulle Airport, must be understood conceptually rather than in a real sense. Then I'll say it fully, and I'll give you what you're talking about. [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u148	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That's the question you're asking, Senator Tight. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u149	Minister, I agree on the directional transfer of passengers at distances of 400, 500 km from the airline to the railways. The EU's assumptions are right. But we cannot abstract ourselves from the fact that in Poland the airline LOT 60% revenue is derived from local, i.e. domestic transport. Regional ports also operate domestic flights around the same range. The construction of high-speed rail connections will automatically take these passengers away from LOT. [[In the country?]] In the country. That's 60%. LOT's revenue. Yesterday at the European Economic Congress, during the panel devoted to the Central Communication Port, the airport manager Katowice-Pyrzowice said that this is the subject of their concern and that there will be an antidote for the problems they will encounter. I understand there's no such antidote today. You do not yet know how to compensate LOT for the loss of passengers, and how to compensate regional ports for the loss of passengers. I would ask you to show the direction in which the activities of the Central Communication Port will take place so as not to cause problems and LOT and regional ports. The second question, about this company, which is to carry out the investment. How will this company be created? I have already asked the Senator the rapporteur this question, I have not received the answer, he has sent me back to the Minister. How will this company be implemented? Will the partners, members of this company have to make their own contribution? Because if the main funding is EU funding, someone will have to make their own contribution. Probably not the state budget. These companies. And will these companies be combined by an administrative decision, these special purpose companies, or will the government convince potential future beneficiaries to join such a company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u150	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First, the question about regional ports. First of all, I would like to stress that we are in constant contact with regional ports. And to be honest, it's hard for me to refer to the data that was given because, according to my knowledge, only 15%. income of regional ports Of course it depends on the port, perhaps there are ports where this income structure looks different It is linked to national connections. It is also difficult for me to comment on data that relate to LOT, because my experience is different. All the more so if we look at the perspective of the target LOT model, which, as I said... In the case of transfer carriers, flights which are carried out at short and medium distances, the main task of which is to provide long-distance connections, are usually moderately profitable. I think we should actually operate on specific data in this area. And I'm able to, of course, present them. As far as LOT's approach is concerned, it seems to me that LOT is generally aware that LOT is one of the main supporters and entities that support the development of the Central Communication Port, because in Okęcie there is no possibility of creating a node, or hub, anymore. Here's another note. Sometimes I meet with such a position: how is it possible that the airport that I was just at and saw was empty there reaches the limits of its capacity? The answer is as follows: this is due to the specific characteristics of the airport as a hub airport. This port of Chopin is really the only hub port in Poland. And this particularity is about the formation of the so-called. Incoming waves. In order for passengers to be divorced after these, so to speak, thinner or long distance directions, they must first be all taken, in a relatively short time, in one place, so that passengers brought from Krakow or from Katowice can continue their journey as they choose. This results in a situation where the reserves needed in such a port must assume a sharp increase in the number of passengers served, which is sometimes followed by a decrease in the demand for infrastructure. However, the infrastructure in the hub must be adapted to the maximum rather than the average traffic. Here, too, it is never enough to stress that restrictions on traffic in Okęc are due to environmental constraints. If we do not want to fly over people's heads 24 hours a day 7 days a week, we need to develop this in the most balanced way possible. As for the question, as I understand, about the ownership structure of the company, the company is under the assumption of a law And that is the statutory requirement of a 100% company of the Treasury. The management company of the entire project is not a company in which any other legal person, even a State, may hold shares. In other words, there can be no situation in which other companies, whether LOT or other entities, will own their shares in the special purpose vehicle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u152	You're asking Senator Borowski a question. Would the senator like to ask you another question? [[I'd just like to ask the Minister to hand over the data you were talking about...]] [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Well, of course.]] [[...in writing. Thank you.]] [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Of course.]] Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First of all, if you'd like to elaborate on the subject of the Modlin, because somehow we're not talking about it at all... [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Of course.]] All you said was that there was a tight relationship between the partners. Well, we know. Yeah, well, things like this are pretty much solved right now. Why can't Modlin be this airport, this hub, this central port, which is gradually expanded? That's the first question. And the other. How many passengers, let's say, last year, in 2017. If, of course, this data is already available, but I think it's more or less known that it served Okęcie, and how many of our other airports? You may not remember this data... [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: I remember.]] But I'm not talking about the ones I've been asking about right now, because I'm sure you know them by heart, but... [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Data from 2017 I remember.]] Yeah, yeah, but I'm talking about the rate of growth. Did... [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Yes, very important...]] If you know the data from 2016, from 2015. At what rate does this increase across the country?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u154	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u155	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for bringing up the subject of Modlin, because it is indeed one of the fundamental issues that we are dealing with. At first, maybe a step back. Speaking of the Central Communication Port, we are talking about a port that can be a port for a national carrier, i.e. a port to which a national carrier will be able to transport its passengers and transport them around the world, presenting the widest possible offer as a port, as well as an airline. From this perspective, we can say with full responsibility that Modlin is an unattractive alternative, because its maximum capacity is limited by environmental conditions, it is a port built on a very simple infrastructure, which should not be expanded so much but completely changed, and that would be costs comparable to the cost of building a new airport. As long as we treat Modlin as an airport for medium-distance traffic, for low-cost traffic, so long Modlin has fulfilled its role. But Modlin has no way of becoming a central communication port. It does not fulfil this role because Modlin is located outside the main railway and road routes, it is located in an area with a rather moderate population and at the same time in an area where we are dealing with a national park, with a delta of rivers. From an environmental point of view, it's not a good choice. And now the situation in the Modlin that we have today. This situation is quite special, because for today, as I have allowed myself to indicate earlier, most of the shares in the Modlin are owned by state-owned legal entities. Most of the shares in this airport belong to the Polish Airports and the Military Property Agency, however, due to the intervention of one client of Modlin airport in this port, the application of the Commercial Companies Code was suspended. It was suspended in such a way that, in accordance with the wishes of one Modlin client, members of the supervisory board from one of the state-owned legal entities, i.e. the PPL, are denied access to the company's financial documents, namely the agreement that the airport in Modlin has with Ryanair. What does that mean? This means that today we do not have reliable data on the possibilities and economic consequences of investment in the port of Modlin. What we know from the Technical Advisor is that the first 400 million that will be invested in the airport in Modlin will not serve to increase the capacity of the airlines currently using Chopin Airport Which means it won't release the capacity at Chopin's airport that I'm gonna put it this way. According to Germany, the Commission considers that the aid granted to Ryanair is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And in this respect, we support the airport in Modlin, because all passengers who want to be served by Modlin, and will not stay, will go to Warsaw and clog even more the port in Warsaw. And in Mazowsze, we already have capacity problems. And that's why Polish Airports invest in a complementary airport. It is not in any way against the Modlin, but from the interest point of view of the company Polskie Porty Lotnicze, which is a very simple business: to release capacity in Okęc, to submit, to formulate offers for lines that operate on Okęc, so attractive that these airlines do not feel discriminated against when offered to operate from another port... From this point of view, within this interest, Modlin is not an attractive solution, because Modlin And we know that on the basis of widely available price lists. For passenger service today 6 PLN is paid, and any airline that would like to start operating with Modlin pays several dozen zlotys. In the case of a very competitive market for cheap carriers for any carrier wishing to go to Modlin, this is a death sentence. At the same time, the agreement with Ryanair is binding, according to our information, until 2023. That's the problem with Modlin. But, as I said, it is not in our interest and it is not in the interest of the company to limit Modlin in any way. In the interest of the company, the Airports are guaranteed for something you know, not to live on investments to which you... well, when you don't have access to financial documents. And that's the business of releasing the Okęc capacity. And that investment in Modlin we're not able to make. [[The question is, Senator Comfort...]] [[But there was a second question...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Second question... Please... [[It was the increase in the number of these passengers, the number of...]] Oh, yes, of course. Thank you very much. This is a very important, indeed very important question. 40 million passengers were aired in the last year by all airports in the country. By 2035, according to the Civil Aviation Authority, these passengers in Poland will be 96 million. Yeah, 96 million. Traditionally, 40% of the traffic is supported by Okęcie. Last year it was 17 million passengers. The heights we're experiencing... Last year it was 22%, year by year almost 1/4 increasing the number of passengers in Okęc. Today, in the first months, we recorded an increase of more than 15%. We are talking about this kind of growth in the Republic of Poland. And this is a trend that will not be reversed soon, for a very simple reason: Poles still fly much less than the people of the European Union. Average citizen of the European Union, the old Union, 3.5 times a year, Pole on average once a year. In this respect, not only Poland, but also other countries of Central and Eastern Europe still have a huge field of growth. The best evidence is the profitability of the connection opened by LOT in the United States of America. I would like to stress that this is not the case that LOT has fought a deadly competitive battle against Western European carriers so that it can operate from Budapest to the United States. He went into a niche that the Western airlines weren't interested in. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll ask about this, okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u156	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u157	So, as I understand it correctly, Okęcie serves 17 million passengers... [[Government Plenipotentiary for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Last year, yes.]] ...and all the other airports 23 million? [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Yes.]] Yes? [[Government Plenipotentiary for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: That's... That's the ratio.]] Good. Now let's assume that the Central Communication Port is set up tomorrow, Okęcie closes, 17 million passengers pass there, how much would they estimate would go from all these other airports, from those 23 million passengers?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u158	It seems to me that when it comes to the investment of the Central Communication Port, according to analyses, also prepared by IATA, to which I had access, we are talking more about a mechanism of a slightly different kind, we are talking about the scale of demand raised, because in Poland there is still a very large... underservation. I'm sorry, I don't know how to translate underserving, because it's so rare... There is a great underservation of Polish passengers. There is a very high potential for growth, which is why in the long term we are talking more about the scale of demand raised by the Central Communication Port than about the scale of the ban on passengers from regional ports. We can talk about regional port passengers who will be taken away in 2 cases. The first is the case in which 2 conditions are met. First, the airport will be located in the so-called "airport." the area of gravity of the Central Communication Port, i.e. access to it will be comparable with access to the Central Communication Port. And the second element: airlines offering connections from this port must be ready to bear the higher costs of operating from the central port instead of from regional ports, which, as a rule, as is the case across Europe, operate on a simple infrastructure and therefore this is a slightly different kind of... This is the first situation. The second case of negative impact of the Central Communication Port is the impact on domestic connections. This is not just about the airport itself, it is about the situation in which passengers who currently use airports consider it more advantageous for them to reach the port of Katowice or Krakow in 1 hour 15 minutes, in 1 hour 40 minutes or in 1 hour 50 minutes from the train station in Wroclaw and... [[How much of Szczecin?]] Please? In such a situation, the replacement of air traffic by rail may take place, although we are aware that this does not happen suddenly. This may be a gradual displacement to which the market will adapt, but in the end I would also like to stress this with all my power. In the distance of 100.400 km, some say that up to 600 km... In the case of distances from 100 to 600 km, the rail should be the means of transport of the first choice. If it isn't, it means that the transport system doesn't work very well. If it pays us more to fly to Wroclaw than to take the train to Wroclaw, it means that something is not right with our transport system, of course with all respect to the customers of these connections. The Central Communication Port and the extension of the railway network will respond to such needs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u159	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u160	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm going back to this... You have partially responded and distanced yourself, but I understand that this inspiration has appeared somewhere, I am talking about the port of Charles de Gaulle in Paris. This is indeed a very similar distance. I'm lucky or misfortune enough to land there and commute to Paris and it's quite... well, it's an extremely cumbersome trip, because at best it takes an hour, and really 1.5?2 hours, and it doesn't matter if she gets in a taxi - No, the bus's going longer, of course. Or in the RER, or the suburban queue that crosses Paris. In this context, I have a question. I have no doubt that for Warsawians it will be quite a big or very big change at the speed of arrival. For many years in the vicinity of Pruszkow on A2 there are gates for toll collection, which already today cause that regularly every morning and around 5 p.m., I am no longer talking about some trips for long weekends... Well, that's where things happen pretty horrible, I mean. You wait at least 25, sometimes more than 30 minutes completely pointless. [[And an hour.]] And it's gonna be an hour. I understand that the access to this airport, which we are talking about, from Warsaw will be through A2. And I also understand that you will need to make an additional downhill node, because neither Grodzisk nor the Żyrard node will serve it. I've written over the last three years two letters, addressed to your ministry, and to the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, asking if anyone could scrape their head and eliminate at least, if you don't know what's going to be there, these two islands, so that you don't have to slow down to 40 km/h with an accident risk. And I'd like to know if you have any idea if you couldn't do it for three years and your predecessors... ♪ 'Cause I wrote ♪ It's just so it's even. Also to your predecessors, that is to say to yourself in a sense. And that's impossible. How will you solve this problem? And do you even want to... because... In Paris, the toll collection starts at Charles de Gaulle airport and you don't pay before, because it's such a distance that if the toll was earlier, it would be a blocked access to this port at all. Do you have any idea? And if you do, as I understand it, you will. So when are you gonna get rid of it? Thank you very much... I'm talking about these goals... [[Yes, please.]] [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Ladies and gentlemen...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. In addition to what you've said... Well, I'd have a huge request. As far as these goals are concerned, I would like to ask for a written reply as to the plans for this node behind Pruszkow. It's a huge pain. Here I am looking at Senator Radziwiłł, who is from there, from the so-called. The bagel, so I'm sure he knows from the lining these problems of his constituents and I'm sure he'll back me up, at least from his look. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u161	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, the question concerning a rather fundamental issue, i.e. road access. I think that also from this perspective the Central Communication Port represents a great opportunity for Warsaw, not a threat. To answer this question, we need to go back to 2... to the 3 basic objectives that were formulated in the concept adopted by the Government of the Republic of Poland on 7 November last year. The first is the most bearable media issue of the intercontinental airport, which will be able to replace Okęcie, will have no development boundaries such as that of Okęcie. The second objective is to expand the railway system in such a way that it is finally competitive towards car transport, so that... definitely ended this period when we have in the Republic of Poland nearly 100 towns over 10 thousand inhabitants, which are excluded from communication, while countries comparable to us have such towns with a government of size less. The third objective is the integration of Łódź and Warsaw. The integration of Łódź and Warsaw is beyond the improvements asked by the senator, also the large bypass of Warsaw, which will free this area from the freight traffic, which currently runs through Warsaw, as well as the third lane on the A2 motorway. And in this context, it is completely technical to continue to use this ferocious place on the highway, which we all know, just behind the corners. Let me just add that, in this respect, concepts for the development and use of what has already been done are currently being developed. We are also faced with the challenge of how not to waste this investment effort that has been made and whether it is possible to incorporate this section of the motorway into the system of national or local roads. Conceptual work is underway today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u163	The senator has a supplementary question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u164	Yes. I'm asking you to answer me one more time... [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: In writing.]] ...in writing, why it is not possible to perform as simple a procedure as to cut out three islets, which would completely make... And why do we all have to get tired of coming to Warsaw? Because it concerns everyone, not just the Warsaw people. It seems, from a technical point of view, that it is simple and easy to do and that quickly... And I don't understand why this case... Perhaps here this discussion and the task of this question directly to the Minister will make a difference. Second thing. I wonder... If you were thinking, in one swing, which is logical, more infrastructureally integrated Warsaw with Łódź, then why did you choose the north side of A2 where there is no A2 at the moment... The whole railway infrastructure is between A2 and the 8th. Possession of the port between A2 and 8 would also give the possibility of access In Warsaw, that's what they say. The Katowice route. Why is this? The north side, not the south side, which is much closer to the infrastructure you'd like to use?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u165	Thank you so much for that question. The hardest questions are questions you don't know the right questions for. That's not their question, fortunately. We worked and searched for a place that would allow the investment to be carried out as soon as possible. We used analyses carried out earlier, and in some ways we moved in the footsteps of crossed-road high-speed trains connecting Warsaw with Łódź and connecting with Central Railway Magistrala. Place of connection of high-speed railway tracks Warszawa. Łódź... It's about the future so-called. icrek, about the connection of Wrocław and Poznań with Warsaw. The location where the new high-speed railway route connects with Central Railway Magistral is located in the vicinity of the Baranów commune. This place was considered ideal from the perspective of the railway junction and the main location on the railway map of the country. If we tried to give up analyses, and these were multi-criterial analyses carried out in 2011 and 2012, we would have to answer in our conscience the question why we are throwing away tens of millions of zlotys, which the Polish State has devoted to drawing up a study on high-speed railways. We consider that since the high-speed corridor on the Warsaw section The boat is carried out north of the A2 route, that is a good solution. I do not know how many ladies and gentlemen of the senators are aware that we pass the viaduct provided for the construction of high-speed rail, needed to carry out the railway route extending the central bus. Making an investment north of A2 will not even stop the traffic, because we will be able to carry out the railroad along the route already routed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u166	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll be asking questions about what you said. If I misunderstand anything, you'll have to get me out of the way. You said that in Poland there are air connections from point to point and that in fact one of the most important functions of the Central Communication Port will be to allow you to operate further routes, especially to the east, because this is a fashionable direction. As I understand it, and I don't know if I understood your idea correctly, the passengers who will be using the calls, let's call them long-distance... The increase in their number will not only be based on the fact that the average Pole will use air services no more than once a year, but also on this Well, I understand that's the assumption. That other travellers will be acquired, those who today choose other airports if they want to use long-distance connections. And I'd like to ask This is the first question. It's about whether or not...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u168	I'm sorry, I'll give you the answers right away. We focus more on raising demand, creating an offer for people who are not flying today, because it is cost-effective and inefficient in time. Of course, due to the extent of the load this airport is, the port will be a natural competition for ports such as Vienna, such as Berlin or, to a certain extent, Helsinki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u169	Good. I understand you're mostly into that. The Central Communication Port is created simply because more Poles will fly in the coming years, also to the Far East, which you mentioned, and the fact that customers will be picked up by other large airports is of secondary importance. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u170	Yes, these customers, including Polish residents, who today benefit from Western hubs, will, of course, get a more favourable offer of connections. On the other hand, looking at the competitive side, we are actually more focused on the demand raised than on the deadly fight for customers. Our region, the region of Central and Eastern Europe, is today a region that supplies its passengers with foreign hubs, and let's add that the service of hubs is the most profitable part of the aviation business.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u171	Good. That's the second question, then. Because you said it was actually worth building the Central Communication Port, given the development of our national carrier, LOT. If not for this, we could basically return to the idea that Warsaw has 2 airports nearby. Well, I would like to ask you what you are planning for LOT's development prospects, since you think it is worth making investments for these prospects, which is estimated to be about PLN 35 billion. How well will this LOT develop if it is worth making such an investment for this development? And question three, a little funny. For two years, even longer, we hear how many things the Civic Platform government has been wrong about. The Senator rapporteur and the Minister have shown us here as proof that this is a good idea, a 2010 study. Don't you think that since the Civic Platform government has been wrong so many times, maybe it's also wrong about this case, and this report isn't worth mentioning, as you gentlemen present it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u172	Please, Minister. A joking question can be a joke answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u173	Maybe I'll start at the end. We are aware that we have collected projects under the 1st programme, to which our predecessors have simply run out of force. Yes, we are aware that this is a multi-cadence decision, this is a decision that assumes a long-term commitment. And we are aware that such decisions are difficult to make, especially in a policy that is often focused on shorter periods. So we are aware of this, and at the same time we take into account the fact that with the topic of the Central Communication Port, the new port, we have really been facing in the Republic of Poland for more than 30 years. I do not hide the fact that we are counting on this project to be considered as something extra-political, strategic, cross-party, because the scale of the challenges, but also the scale of the benefits associated with it, exceeds the benefits that fall within the party accounts. That's the way I'd put it. I now return to the question of the development of LOT. That is actually a fundamental question. I'll answer them as follows. The decision on the Central Communication Port actually involves some question to some extent, but not the question of LOT, but the question of whether we want to have a national carrier. This is really the question of whether we want to have a national carrier, understood not only as a vehicle that provides us with access to the financial rate of return, or whether we want to have a national carrier as a tool for foreign expansion, as a tool for developing exports, a tool for developing international contacts. Look at how it developed, you have to admit, after the trajectory of ups and downs, an airline like Turkish. It is a line for which the Turkish Government is currently building near Istanbul, a notabene 40 km from Istanbul, an airport. It will serve 70 million passengers in the first stage and 150 million passengers in the end. The question is quite fundamental whether we want to develop in the aviation sector, as for example. Finland, which served 17 million passengers in the port of Helsinki last year, i.e. ten times the population of Helsinki and three times the population of Finland. Why? If we go to the Far East, we will see not only Finnish planes there, but also Finnish butter, Finnish food products in hotels. The development of airlines, the development of the aviation sector is far more than just a profit in strictly financial terms. And it is indeed a fundamental decision, because without a national carrier, an investment in the Central Communication Port would require much greater business gymnastics, so to speak. If we are dealing with the most aggressively developing airline in Europe And that's what LOT is now. The outlook for the success of the Central Communication Port as an undertaking not only economic but also economic, from the point of view of the economic policy of the state appears in much brighter colours. [[Can I ask you a question, Mr. Marshal?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u174	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u175	Thank you very much. So, for all the reasons you mentioned here, you think it's worth investing 35 billion zlotys to give LOT the opportunities you've told us about. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u176	First of all, it is worth investing 35 billion to create opportunities for Polish residents, for entrepreneurs in Poland to travel in a much more economical, comfortable and effective way than today. It is worth investing PLN 35 billion in order to benefit from the advantages of the development of the aviation sector. And let me add that according to the European Commission, 1 job generated by the aviation sector generates 3 more jobs in other sectors of the economy and 1 euro generated by the aviation sector generates 3 euro generated by other sectors of the economy. I would add that, in line with the aviation strategy that is currently being discussed at European Union level, the density of European airports, the density of airspace is one of the three major challenges facing the European aviation market. It is therefore worth spending 35 billion to take part in this game because the possible profits from this game exceed in a significant way the risks involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u177	Senator Grodzki will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a lot of questions, but I won't ask you if you're familiar with the history of Ciudad Real and Valladolid, because it's obvious. But I need to explain some inaccuracies to you. I listened very carefully to what you said. Narrow-hull United Airplanes such as B757 have flown across the Atlantic for years I'm using them. From Tegel straight to New York. Because you said it happened recently, and it's been a long time. Now I've Googled the Lambs and hence, from the Senate, this is currently a 53 km road that takes an hour to travel. [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: After the existing road network.]] Yes. I... [[Government Plenipotentiary for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Well, this is the problem that we determine the distance by moving on the existing road network.]] I use the airport, which is 45 km away from my place of residence, notabene NSZZ. Solidarity in Szczecin, and I always tremble because they build S6, whether I arrive or not, whether there will be a shuttle again Or, God forbid, an accident on a one-lane road. But when I get to Warsaw, I know I'll make it to the Senate. Now you're giving me another 45 kilometers. So, where is this improvement in my comfort, that's another matter. National carrier... Well, our nephews, Hungarians, somehow Seppuku didn't commit... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but why don't we share your questions...]] Okay, okay. Okay, okay, [[...to the minute parts so the minister can answer one at a time?]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. I'm just finishing up. Well, only the Hungarian national carrier, Malév, fell and somehow Hungarians didn't go bankrupt. They're traveling, they're supposed to be developing. But my question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u179	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, because there are very good answers to all these questions. I do not know if you know that LOT had to open direct connections from Budapest to the United States, because after the fall of Maléva Hungary did not have any direct connections to the United States. [[Mr. Marshal, I know that very well. We behaved like Lufthansa in relation to...]] So I am convinced that the Minister will simply answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u180	But my main question is one thing. Are you familiar with the opinion of the Warsaw city planners who say that if we crossed these lanes on Okęc and built underground or underground or around the queue and the second terminal on the other side, the airport would serve us for the next several decades, serving 40 million passengers In this area surrounded by junctions, as you were gracious to mention. I'd like to ask you if you know this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u181	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u182	I'll try to take it one at a time... What I could suggest when it comes to accessing the Central Communication Port is a 15-minute train connection that... [[When he gets here.]] ...as it will be public transport, we find it much more attractive than using the A2 route affected. Of course, we're gonna be doing everything we can to unload the rail node... I mean, the road node near the port. And this 36 km will be possible by rail or 39.5 km you will be able to cross the National Army Route. Now, a question of opinion on the crossing of two lanes. There are two problems with that. The first is the total omission that outside the nodes that block the development of Chopin airport, we have 285 thousand inhabitants in the area of limited use. This is the first element we have to consider. I took the liberty of pointing out in one of the interviews that just as we placed the screens throughout Poland, so that the rye would grow in peace, so let us ensure the right to silence for the inhabitants of Okęta. The second element is that the restrictions that would be in the course of construction work would have to assume the total exclusion of Chopin port from air traffic, and this is the only airport station in Poland that operates transfer traffic on such a scale. Please also take into account this element that in Mazowsze we have very big problems with capacity. Trying to unload them, even in good faith, by expanding... blocking traffic that last year. As I said, in answer to Senator Borowski, it amounted to 17 million, and it is growing at a rate of up to 22%. per year. From the point of view of market development, it would be to take oxygen away. I am no longer talking about the national carrier at this point, because I think that he would somehow be doing well, but from the perspective of the development of the aviation market in Poland it would be a very negative scenario. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u184	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, just out of curiosity, could you tell us how many planes our national carrier has? Because I'd like to know what it looks like with regard to the competition. You said it would increase... When it comes to this generation of jobs, etc., it is clear that somewhere the number of jobs will increase, it may decrease somewhere. As for the number of passengers, if in the Central Communication Port it all looks like this, then you should be a little afraid and even very afraid for regional ports. And, Minister, my last question is not to stall today. I'd like to get back to the issue of residents. I'm sure they're listening to us. 'Cause they live there. And it's important to them what it all looks like. I mean this reservation of the investment area, which is made at the request of the special purpose vehicle. There's a record there that it's no longer than two years... And this period, these 2 years, is not extended. So, period, there's no... It is registered that this will not be extended. We now know what the process of selecting location decisions looks like. We know these decisions that need to be made are essential, you said about this environmental decision, that this is a matter of about a year and a half... Oh, if it were so lucky, that would be great. Yeah, but there's also geodesic divisions, there's land consolidation, and so on. All of this has to be prepared for a location decision to be made. And at this point, we have all this land blocked, there's sharpening, and I'm sure everyone there will be asking how long it's gonna last. And now the question is, will this localization decision be made at such a time that this deadline will not pass? Well, it's obviously very difficult to predict today, but in my opinion 99% is a risk, the danger that this deadline for the location decision will be exceeded. And that's why there's gonna be a first problem. And the second problem: with regard to the valuation itself 'Cause you're gonna be there... Well, it's gonna be a special purpose company, and you're just gonna keep an eye on it... And it will be a matter of establishing the purchase price of these land. Well, we're talking about a very large area. These are not short-term investments, linear investments, etc. We're talking about a few thousand acres. Therefore, it also requires time to conduct these conversations, to make arrangements, etc. Yeah, but everyone's gonna be expecting an answer on how it's gonna be when it comes to pricing. Because here's the change... This reservation is the first case, compared to other laws, and the second is that the valuer will not value every parcel, as it so far appears in special laws, only it will be done on a different basis. So could you explain how these talks will be conducted when expropriation takes place, and how will this be determined in terms of price proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u185	First brief correction: we're not talking about a period of 2 years, but 2 plus 2 years. 2 years is the duration of the Council of Ministers Regulation, which will indicate the area, the maximum area that will be covered by the... It's an art. 28. And it's spent for two years. I 2 years this is indeed part of the reservation arrangement of the voivodship, which is already limited to 2 specific locations where environmental studies are carried out and is also carried out buy-out. So as far as the time margin is concerned, the situation here is a little bit better than the senator pointed out. Now the question is how to set the price. We needed a certain instrument to enable us, during this time of preparation for the localization decision, to acquire the land in a consensual manner. We use the services of property experts, the law provides for certain procedures in this regard. And to the extent that we do not reach an agreement, i.e. If the site does not reach an agreement until a local decision has been reached, the areas covered by the localisation decision shall pass on the date of the decision to the Treasury and the voivode shall determine compensation in this respect in a manner similar to that of other specialities. But the entire bill is aimed at ensuring as much consensus as possible, resolving such issues. [[Can I make it up?]] [[But why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u187	Minister, a little disagreeable. Maybe one thing. I'll read you the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. On the date of delivery of the notification of the decision to determine the location of the investment in the Central Communication Port, proceedings shall be initiated on the determination of compensation for the expropriation of the real estate. So it is clear that it is not until the date of delivery of the notification of the decision. So we're looking at the perspective of when this decision is going to be. Well, today we don't know what the deadline will be, because environmental decisions and so on, it could all shift over time... And it's only now that we can start talking. Either buy-out on the same principle that you say we're talking about, discussing, agreeing, we've come to an agreement, okay, or, if we don't come to an agreement, then the voivode, see: expropriation of the property, valuation of the property by the valuer and only then... And all of this, of course, as we know from the experience we have in the construction of highways, etc., takes years. It's not like you're gonna do this one, two, three. All this time, the problem is that you're talking about the fact that in 9.5 years, roads will be built, railroads... Well, at the committee meeting, we also said that PLN 67 billion is on the railroad, we know that. But, Minister, there's no chance in this perspective of doing what you're saying to build a railroad in that place. It's impossible because it's three years. Each investment process related to preparation, even by virtue of this decision, in accordance with the specification, takes time. It is not real, it is not possible in this perspective, to use that money even for the railroad, not to mention the other roads you are talking about. So it's really impossible to get all of this tight, and that's why it's the term you're giving. I in advance announce that I will continue to speak on this subject. It seems completely unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u188	I will first refer to the issue of financing from the present perspective, namely what was at the end. We are aware and do not apply that the investments I have presented to you should be covered from the current EU perspective. Here the funds have already been allocated, we have the National Railway Programme and here we have some strategic government documents that define where our country's investment effort will go. And what we are going to talk about is EU funds related to the next EU perspective and expenditure which will be borne by the new EU perspective for the implementation of such investments. And now, art. 46. Art. The 46th Act refers to the way other specialists operate. But I would like to stress that here we are dealing with a situation where the parties in the negotiations do not reach an agreement, i.e. until the location decision of the special purpose vehicle is made, the real estate will not be acquired. Then, in fact, there is a normal procedure whereby compensation is to be determined, not expropriation, but compensation for expropriation, which takes place ex lege at the time of the localisation decision. In other words, both parties should depend on concluding a contract before making a localization decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u190	Thank you. Actually, I have so many questions that I don't know which questions to ask... But maybe I'll start with what you said. Please clarify the question of this name. You said the name of the port of Szczecin, and that that's what the port of Szczecin is called, that's okay. Explain what you mean, who doesn't mind, whether one of these names will be eliminated, whether they will both function, and there will be no problem with that. Second thing I'd like to ask you. You used the term "our ethnic movement" in North America. What does that mean? What did you mean? And now the question of this consultation. I'll group up these questions so I don't ask questions later. You said in response to the question about regional ports That you're in contact with regional ports. Well, you know, right now, the government is like... in contact with protesters in the Seym... Being in touch with someone doesn't mean that the problem is solved and everyone's happy. Right? Please tell us what your opinion is. After the public consultation of these airports, what is the opinion of local authorities, which are the owners of regional ports, and what is the opinion of the Warsaw government, the main interested and possible main victim of the construction of this port? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u191	Maybe I'll start with the first issue that the senator has put forward, and it's about the port of solidarity. NSZZ.Solidarity... The name "Solidarity" and the designation both in IATA systems and in any other... Nothing prevents this undertaking from obtaining the name "Solidarity Central Communication Port." Solidarity as an idea, solidarity as a certain value and a certain mission which is given to this undertaking... There is neither a meaning identity here, nor any legal complications in this regard. So that I would like to calm down here all those who are concerned about the name we have chosen. Second line, ethnic movement. Ethnic movement is a concept used very often in air transport. This is a concept that is used as opposed to business traffic, to tourist traffic, which involves... [[What does the Polish ethnic movement mean to the United States? I'm sorry, but I just don't have that kind of knowledge and I'm asking for an explanation.]] It is visiting a family that emigrated to the United States, maintaining and cultivating family ties. This is a movement that makes the connections from Rzeszow to New York very profitable. I'm trying to explain it so graphically... [[I understand this profitability of flying Poles to the United States, it's quite obvious, it's just I don't understand the name ethnic movement, but completely... but it doesn't matter anymore. Please answer the other question.]] Yes. The project we're investigating is a government project. It has been assessed by the Commission of the Joint Government and the Government, and this opinion is positive. So that the opinion of this project is positive. When I say that we are in dialogue with regional ports, I mean that... of course I do not want to replace President Tomasik, who speaks on behalf of regional ports. I can only comment that from previous contacts with the association of regional ports it appears that regional ports are looking at this investment as an opportunity. We do not have a single statement from regional ports as an association that would say: this is meaningless from our point of view and a harmful investment. I am talking about the fact that we remain in touch because I believe that the participatory model of investment that we want to act on should be that we listen to the voices of the various stakeholders. Other representatives of the aviation industry, including regional ports, are one of the stakeholders. Here, I think, it is also worth emphasising that we are aware that we are moving with this investment at a rather difficult time, i.e. at a time of election, where it is more calculated, so to speak, to act in dispute than to act in discussions. It is so incomprehensible that what is now becoming a source of self-government debate does not lie in the competence of the local government. In my opinion, the decision to move the port of Chopin to a place where air traffic will be able to develop freely is beneficial, good for Warsaw. I know that a few candidates, two candidates associated with the Civic Platform's environment, thinks otherwise. But this is such a special situation that decisions in this area do not fall within the competence of the President of Warsaw. The port of Chopin is not a regional port, it is a port which serves the whole of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u192	Thank you very much. I may read the senators who have joined the task of questioning: Senators Czerwiński, Kopeć, Komarnicki, Czarnobaj, Augustine, Grodzki and Senator Sztark. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u193	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns defence issues. The Central Communication Port was very enthusiastic about the recent former commander of American land troops in Europe. Please zoom in a little bit. There is also a specific question related to this. In the text of the Act itself, there is a mention of the Minister of National Defence, of consulting... Well, he should be consulting on the location of the ports, which is where the port will be built. And I have not seen him so to speak, an immanent, natural share in what is to be built, what is to be built. What can you possibly say in this regard? The second point concerns Warsaw. This is where we were just talking about it. I'm sure the 285,000 will gain, because it will be peaceful, and it will also gain the city, because some architectural and urban constraints will cease to apply. In addition, something after being decommissioned, I understand, will remain the port of Chopin. It will remain ground, very well located. If you could tell me how much this land will be worth and what you want to leave behind... Because you said there might be a port, a military airport, and... I don't know if it's cargo either. Please state that. And when will it be a possible decision? Because the city can gain from it, and the people of the city can gain from it. You only need to calm down one group of Warsaw residents: those who often fly. Please zoom in on what will be the fastest way to get from the centre of Warsaw to the airport. Does that really make it that much worse for those who fly often?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u194	The first question, visit to Poland of former NATO commander-in-chief in Europe and defence issues. The Central Communication Port may be one of the points of entry for NATO troops in Europe during my meeting with General Ben Hodges. This issue is also linked to one of the main infrastructure shortcomings and is one of the challenges facing us, as a matter of principle, when it comes to transport development strategies at all. Military transport... Of course, we no longer live in times when armored trains won wars. We live in times where the transport of heavy equipment enables, also by rail, rapid transmission and logistics for the purpose of possible conflict and performs significant deterrent functions. For this reason, the European Union adopted a document at the end of March this year, which I had allowed myself to talk about earlier, i.e. the so-called. Action plan on military mobility, according to which one of the transport priorities of the European Union is to increase mobility in this area. Airports, especially large airports designed to operate the largest aircraft, provide a very far-reaching advantage in the event of a possible conflict. And even the possible destruction of airports or terminal buildings in the event of war does not reduce their military usefulness enough for them to lose their attractiveness to allies. That is why we regard General Hodges' statement as a very important statement, as a starting point for further work on developing such standards, within which the Central Communication Port will be created, standards that will also improve the quality of our preparations for war. The second issue concerned 285 thousand inhabitants of Warsaw. Indeed, so many inhabitants live in the area of limited use of the port of Chopin. This means that so many inhabitants are affected by the nuisance of the operation of this port. And it's an opportunity for them. The drive we're assuming because we prefer... And one of the goals we want to achieve is to encourage people to use the railroad. Thus, the guaranteed and anticipated transport that we want to provide to the inhabitants of Warsaw, that is, access via the railway network, is access to this port from the Central Station within 15 minutes, i.e. in time, I would say, comparable to the time at which you can now get to Chopin Airport. Finally, the development of areas located in the port of Chopin, i.e. 650 ha. We are aware that decisions in this area are ahead of us. But I would like to stress very strongly the opportunities for Warsaw, which are also connected with this. It's never enough repeating. Before the war we had an airport located very close to Warsaw. It was an airport located on Mokotowski Fields. As part of Warsaw's development, the airport was moved to Okęcie near Warsaw. Today Warsaw approached the airport. Today the airport began to be a nuisance for the inhabitants of Warsaw and we consider it completely natural to take a further step. Not only is our Mokotowski Field an example, which is already quite an important element of the Warsaw landscape, but also a conference centre, which was established at the former Munich airport, or a district which was established on the premises of the former Denver airport. It is a completely natural process, which in addition allows to take advantage of a unique chance that 650 ha can be planned and managed in a thoughtful way. From the perspective of Warsaw we consider it more an opportunity than a threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u195	If you don't mind, I'd just like to ask you a quick question. When will it be possible to decide whether or not to leave the military port, the military airport just in Okęc?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u196	A decision in this regard will be taken when the government is ready to take it. It would be good if, before completing the feasibility study, it was taken, although, of course, in a situation where we are moving all the civil traffic to the port of Solvency, decisions in this regard do not affect profitability, on the feasibility of the project itself. But the sooner it's taken, the better. The last moment, in our view, to make such a decision, is at least 2 years before the transfer of air traffic to the port of.Solidarity, so that they can start any adaptation work to prepare for possible adaptation work, i.e. for this airport life after life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u197	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is how I understood your statement. It will be powered by the State Treasury with PLN 35 billion. It is, as I understand it, a huge sum, but I have learned in the course of your statement that this money will be from the European Union. You're watching political life, and you know there might be a situation that there won't be that money for the airport. My question is this: is this initiative, this great national investment, because it is appropriate to say today, it will then be implemented and is the state determined to implement it from the budget? That's my first question. And my second question. Is the State at the Council of Ministers meeting This is a very important question. Or perhaps you were in the ministry wondering... Because we both know, and I sit in investments for dozens of years, that no Polish company is able to realize neither this infrastructure nor this airport. And do you have such an idea that the company will come? Well, hypothetically, I don't want to name it. It will design it according to the idea of the Council of Ministers or your department, and the company, on behalf of the Treasury, will oversee it, in other words, in the design and construction system, or will it be fragmented and will be done in stages? And by the way, if I'm listening to the next hour of your speech, if I were Prime Minister, I'd make you head of this company because you're doing just fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u199	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First question: Is it from the budget? [[If that were the case, I'd...]] Yeah, if. The decision has not been taken in this regard, and I would like to stress this with all my might. In the situation... The function of the special purpose company established under the law, which I would like to stress, is coordination activities that will also be undertaken by the PKP PLK or the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. And in this respect, if we anticipate profit sharing And the risk, which is a lot to say, because that's always the case with investments. In the case of a port, solidarity, i.e. that part of the income, aimed at the financial rate of return... It seems to us that if we are ready for this, then it will be more appropriate to separate, simply to set up a company that deals with this profitable investment. This has the advantage that, from a financial point of view, the company does not take into account investments that are financially unprofitable. That's the thought we had. Next: Design and build. Is it really advisable to go to the system to design and build? We are aware that there may be five architectural studios in the world that are able to cope with such a challenge. [[And absolute agreement.]] There aren't many, maybe five. We are talking about a project that combines the Berlin Hauptbahnhof project, which is a station where connections cross to the east line. West and North South, with airports that can then be gradually developed, the most modern airports in the world. The list is very short here. What are the risks associated with the formula design and build? Formula design and build it has the advantage that it frees us from dragging the rope between the designer and the contractor, when the designer blames the contractor that something was done not according to the design, and the contractor says it's not our fault, we did it the way it was in the project, and the project was wrong. There's something we're looking at as a threat and the bill doesn't decide. It's about the risk of optimization. After adopting a general project, a company that undertakes to make investments in the formula design and build within a specific amount may have a tendency to make certain cost optimizations. This is the challenge we face, and this is a case that cannot be decided in the bill. This is the challenge of creating such a supervisory system so that simple, easily accountable infrastructure can be built in the system design and build. Now that we're moving in the area of standards... As long as establishing the load capacity of the runway is a ground-based arrangement and there is no room for cost optimization here, investment in the terminal... Is the terminal convenient for passengers? How do you measure that? Like later. It's a legal screw-up related to my professional path. To proceed with the process or not to lead to a process related to whether the task put before the contractor has been properly completed or not? [[All such cases end in international arbitration. We both know it is. And it will be.]] The construction of the National Stadium fortunately did not end like this. We can be proud of it as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! That's the second time the marshal won't put me on the list. I'm gonna ask two or three questions, and then it's over. Minister, I mean the document of 17 March 2017. If it wasn't too much trouble sending him or sending him the address of the page where I could find him... It's a request because I'm looking, I'm looking, and I can't find it. This is a request I have for you. The Ministry can give me pleasure and make things easier, or I'll keep looking. I'm going back to the issue of this document. Minister, could you tell the Minister... The decision of the Council of Ministers of 7 November is, as I understand it, an uproar of this document. And I'm interested in the issue of this document. Did the Minister make any appointments? Are there opinions, co-ops? Was there any discussion among the professionals, but also the laymen? The issue of openness to work on the document when making decisions is one of the cornerstones of decision-making. Was this document based on what was done between 2003 and 2010? You have created such a document and it is under discussion by the Council of Ministers. Is there any kind of cooperation in this area? That's the first question. Second question, Minister. You were talking about the number of people who would benefit... I'm not talking about the central port, I'm talking about air transport in Poland. In 2015, the Civil Aviation Authority said that in 2030 it would be a maximum of 65 million. After two years, he said he'd be about a hundred. Is this a one-time increase, or are we going to increase this number every three years? Where did that number come from? Does the Minister know? I'm asking, but the Minister doesn't necessarily need to know. One last question, Minister. In the studies, especially in 2010, which you are talking about, we find some things about doubt. My point is that the Minister should tell us whether they were taken into account or whether you rejected them. This March 2017 document will be helpful. If possible, please comment. It is said that the plan for 70 million passenger transport in 2030 will be difficult to implement and that I'm talking about these co-operatives, opinions. The actual number of people to be transported in 2030 is about 30 million, and in 2050 it will be about 50 million. The following risks are identified: Internet development, ease of communication with other means, frequent controls, security issues. Well, these threats are being reported, and that's why they're being verified. But what's important? The 2010 assumptions say that we will have 70 million passengers provided that this year I am talking about 2030 and we will reach the level of growth of France in terms of GDP. It is also said that the Union will change its priorities by providing more support for aviation than for railway roads. And there is also the opinion that Poland is so shaped that the development of high-speed railways is more efficient and forward-looking for us. These are such reservations. Have you considered them? First of all, I'm interested in the first part. Were you open to a discourse about this project of yours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u202	I'm going to address this first point. The task that has been set for us is to verify what we know, and to decide on the basis of the data collected, whether we are ready to make a decision, in other words, whether there have been such events that would have upgraded the recommendations that came from 2003, 2005 and 2010, recommendations from these 3 studies, from these 3 feasibility studies. In our view, such events did not occur and for this reason our methodology was based on confronting our point of view with the opinion of a technical advisor, as was the case with location issues. So we proposed a solution regarding the location and verified whether the way we propose is methodologically correct, we confronted it with expert knowledge, and after obtaining confirmation that this is a good direction, we gave it further direction, which results in the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 7 November. It is difficult for me to comment on the results of the Civil Aviation Authority's expertise until the end. What I can say without trying to interfere with the competences of ULC... because I think this is a very good question for the Civil Aviation Authority. It seems very important to me. Let's see that we are actually at a very large stage in the aviation market, as evidenced by hundreds of narrow- and wide-hull aircraft purchased by airlines. The data we've been talking about, the data we're getting from IATA, confirms our conviction that this economy is continuing. Anyway, even if there was a breakdown in the economy... Please note that after an increase of one year to a year reaching 1/4. Because 22% is almost 1/4, Chopin Airport will serve more than 17 million passengers this year. We'll see, maybe there'll be 18, 19 million, maybe even more. Even if the Central Communication Port operated 25 million passengers, we would be talking about the viability of the project. From the perspective of the existing development of the aviation market, we consider this assumption to be very prudent. Therefore, the Central Communication Port must have a reserve created in case of unfettered development also in the future. And hence this mythical number of 100 million passengers for whom the port must be ready. We do not decide that the airport will serve 100 million passengers "We don't have that kind of power, and that would be crazy, especially since airports are developing in a phase-by-step manner. But we are aware that the size of the first stage of the expansion of the Central Communication Port, which covers 40 and 45 million passengers, is a safe placement of money. The threats have been taken into account and here we are actually dealing with a very paradoxical situation. Because there was no incident in particular in the last feasibility study of 2010. In other words, the European Union has consistently left the financing of aviation and has placed it on the railroad. And we are happy about this because there is a time for the railway in Poland to actually taste the Renaissance in the true sense of the word. At the same time, the predictions in this study are true. The increase in passenger numbers, despite the lack of these supporting reasons mentioned in the study, is taking place in the manner in which MKmetric calculated this. So the connection... Last question: linking the development of Poles' mobility with the development of GDP. Indeed, this is the first factor that is taken into account in the forecasting activity, because it involves a fairly simple and obvious conclusion: the more people have money, the more they travel and the more they travel, the more they enjoy air travel. What is the catch in this forecast? Poles fly less than our GDP per head. [[And they'll be even less...]] Poles in relation to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Compared to the citizens of other countries of the new Union, Poles fly less and therefore there is also a potential which is independent of GDP. We identify the cause of this failure by the inhabitants of this way of travel in the absence of a sufficient offer. And provide it is in the state of Central Communication Port. There will not only meet profitable connections, which are already operated from regional ports today, but will also find a place for these connections, which passengers need to collect from the whole of the Republic of Poland, and perhaps from the whole region of Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u204	Minister, I let myself scream like that... It is good that we are talking about long-term investment, because the sin of Polish politics is that we do not think about the future, but the second sin is that we do not see all politicians at the same time. I shouted that it would be less, because the annual pension deficit is almost twice as much as the money that is needed to build this project. A year's deficit! And it will be even greater in the situation of pensions, which will be much lower than wages. I'm sure you know that. And that is the answer to the question why Poles fly less. It's not because they're afraid of airplanes, it's because they can't afford it. So if we don't see politicians in their entirety and if they're run by the same government as they are now, Deactivation of employment and increase in the number of inactive pensioners The money for this investment will neither be nor will there be the passengers on which you count. I'd like the Minister to answer my question, which is... I would like you to present in writing the decision made by the Civic Platform to liquidate Chopin Airport because there was a contradiction in what you said. First you said that the decision had not been made and it was thrown on the shelf and then that the decision had been made. So it's such a curiosity. Maybe I could get it in writing. [[Government Plenipotentiary for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Okay, well, then maybe I immediately...]] But I would also like to tell you that I remember this discussion from those years. And it would be worth asking yourself why this decision has not been taken. Well, it wasn't done because... Among other reasons, there were many other economic realities. But it was not taken, among other things, because many analysts claimed that it was too late for this because of the construction of a powerful Berlin airport. I'd like you to take that into account. It's a new airport and Brandenburg... According to those assessments, it was supposed to push us here rather into the role of a co-operator with Brandenburg than to the role of a rival who could catch up and maybe overtake this huge port with its capabilities. Then it was thought that he would be one, two, quickly opened. Today we see that the well-organized, rich Germans cannot cope with this problem. Yeah, but we do. It's a good idea. We can do this. Minister, I would ask you, however, to address these doubts. He also asked for this in a slightly similar question, Senator Blackbay. In 2010 this was put on the shelf not so much, she simply overwhelmed the opinion that this investment is linked to a huge risk that was not wanted to take at the time. I don't know if it's right or wrong, but that's when they didn't want to do it. That's why I'm asking you to address this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u205	Of course. The first question, which is what I meant when I said it was a decision to shut down Chopin's port. The decision was made per facta concernia. There is no decision: in 2020, we close the port of Chopin, but in the face of a feasibility study, which pointed to 2 development paths. It is either the expansion of the port of Chopin, or the construction of a central airport that will replace the port of Chopin, the minister has been cancelled, both the feasibility study concerning the central port has been placed on the shelf... [[And that's the decision?]] Wait a minute. ...the central airport and... [[...we'll do...]] ...ordered, as I said, for several tens of millions of feasibility studies concerning high-speed railways in the Republic of Poland, and at the same time began to invest around the port of Chopin as if the port of Chopin would no longer be around 2020. That's what this decision is about. I realize that this is a bit of a comment on what we've been dealing with. However, decisions have been taken which are contradictory. At that time there was really time for such decisions: either we are expanding the port of Chopin, which involves the loss of 3 million passengers associated with the demand raised, but it is a decision, or we are building the Central Communication Port. However, it was said: we do not build the Central Communication Port, we build a road node around the port of Chopin. That's what I meant. And now Berlin-Brandenburg. Let me put it this way: it's obviously a very ugly feeling You're lucky it didn't work out. However, I think, as he is already learning in management departments about how the construction of Berlin-Brandenburg airport ended in such a disaster... Well, you could say there's a few lessons we can learn for ourselves. [[And that's what makes me so happy.]] Thank you. [[And that's the punch line.]] Ladies and gentlemen, some data on the port of Berlin-Brandenburg. We are talking about an airport that was actually built as a new hub and which was built against a national carrier. We are talking about an airport built for Air Berlin, where the majority shares were held by Gulf carriers wishing to create competition for Lufthansa in Berlin. This is a very special thread. We are talking about an airport where no general contractor has been set up, but it is decided to commission all individual work, which has resulted in a complete collapse of the investment management system. Let us add that we are talking about an investment in which federal, trade union and Berlin interests were at odds with individual corporate bodies, and because of the 3 levels of political influence we have had to deal with a structure with a very moderate degree of decision-making. Finally, we are talking about an investment where, at some point, when observing the growth of the aviation market, it was decided to increase its scope during construction work, to increase capacity from 17 to 35 million passengers. What happened? There was a total mess because the ceilings, which were built for a certain load resistance, suddenly became floors of another floor. It's not the problem of Berlin's Central Communication Port. The airport in Berlin, also because Air Berlin fell along the way because they didn't get their hubby... Air Berlin, apart from having other problems with the Gulf investors, fell because they didn't get to open their hub. A hub was not opened because there is no person willing to take responsibility for the safety standards that apply to it and which were adopted during its design. This, of course, is a brief presentation of the case. Books on this investment are already being created. And I'd like to stress one thing... [[I was talking about competitiveness.]] Yeah, competitiveness... [[I think it's a little better there than in the Modlin.]] I will say this: we have not yet seen a committee of inquiry in the Polish Parliament, which would examine the establishment of an airport in Modlin, while in the Bundestag there is a committee of inquiry which examines the circumstances of the disaster, which was Berlin-Brandenburg's investment. [[But is this Berlin going to start or not?]] [[Voices from the room: Move.]] The last statement by the President of Lufthansa was that it would be more profitable in his view to close this port completely. Let me put it this way: it is a recurring fact that the closer we get to the elections, the closer we get to the deadline for handing over the port. It is usually a year after the Bundestag elections, so it has been several times. Maybe this time, too. It's hard to really tell if Berlin is going to move. Even if it does, even if Berlin moves, it won't be the port that was planned before. It is currently a regional airport for Berlin. There is no longer a return to the concept of the central port for Wednesday-Eastern Europe, which could be Berlin. It is now another regional port for Berlin. From this point of view, the Central Communication Port does not need to fear Berlin. Speaking of which, it is possible to say that Berlin should be afraid of the Central Communication Port. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u206	What's our situation? Who's asking the question now? Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Minister was asked about the number of LOT aircraft. It's common knowledge. It's about 73 machines. As a matter of fact, in order for the hub to operate more than 20 million passengers, in order to actually be a hub, you need to have a minimum of 350 machines. These are American studies, and Americans can't be blamed for not knowing each other when flying, because this is the most intense aviation market in the world. Where are we gonna get these machines and where are we gonna get these passengers? I understand that all regional airports will have to get there by high-speed rail and regional airports will be closed. Yes? That's when we get to the 40 million, what air traffic is now in Poland. I also have a specific question about the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this law, which will give rise to legal conflicts. It is said that the location of the investment is about Baranowo The local land use plan may be made contrary to the local development plan. The question should be asked immediately to the legislators whether this provision is even possible to apply in the law. He smells like conflict.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u208	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: May I refer to this, Mr. Marshal?]] No, three questions... Do you have a pen? This has to be written down and it'll be easier to answer. There are 3 questions and 3 answers in the tour. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u209	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm a little concerned about that name. I am talking about the name "Solidarity," to which I am extremely attached as a former activist of the first "Solidarity." I know the name of NSZZ.Solidarity written in solidarity. The name "Solidarity" was used again in the case of the civil committee, of course, with the agreement of the authorities of the National Commission "Solidarity." As far as I know, it's a name that's heavily legal, and it's forbidden to use it, unless agreed by the national committee. I am from Zachodniopomorskie voivodship and in the case of the airport in Goleniów we already have this name NSZZ I'm afraid you don't just throw it out of habit... I'm interested in the fate of that name. Please explain it to me to the end. And second question, very simple. When's the first shovel coming in? Would you mind telling us? I'm not talking about a month, but... [[Oriental.]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u210	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome. And then answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u211	I'll just add to that Senator Shark's question about the name "Solidarity..." The point is that the word "solidarity" around the world is associated with this inscription... [[Solidaric was meant to be.]] ...so-called. I'm a solidaritic... Will the State have the consent of the trade union to this? Once again, the name of the airport in Szczecin is this. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, sir, the fact that there's an NSZZ shortcut at first doesn't matter. This is the full name for which the right to use is "Solidarity" (Solidarity). As far as the whole name is concerned, it is not written "Solidarity," it is: NSZZ "Solidarity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u212	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u213	First, let me refer to the question about the development of flights. We already have a hub in Poland This hub is called Okęcie. Of course it's a mini-hub, it's a hub that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] As visitors who visit Chopin's port in Warsaw say. The extent to which the port of "Solidarity' will be able to become a hub from the studies to which the Senator referred is indeed highly dependent on the condition of LOT, because we hope that LOT will occupy 40% Slots at this airport. And here the full agreement is that the future of the port is linked to the condition of the national carrier, which I would like to add. It is the most aggressive airline in Europe, which has increased its fleet by half over the last two years, and there is no indication that it will descend from the upward curve on which it is located. The question about the location of the investment carried out contrary to the local land development plan. I have to admit, I have a problem with referring to the fact that this is the solution that makes sense. [[This is a special act.]] This is the solution that occurs in every particular... Yes, we make investments of national importance, even if it involves a violation of individual interests, although this infringement must be as small as possible. Asking about the port of Solidarity and NSZZ Solidarity. It seems to me that we are here, after all, dealing with the question, firstly, concerning the future, and secondly, with the question of using a sign that actually made Poland famous in a world that we can all be proud of. Let me put it this way: we did not make a decision, and even more so NSZZ However, with all due respect to our heritage associated with the Solidarity Region, it is not only a reference to our glorious past, but it is also a mission that this programme and this airport should carry out, because it is about ensuring the mutual availability of all areas in the country. This is also what we believe is a particular way of conducting the investment process respecting the interests of the local community. When it comes to the question of the first shovel, I have to say that there are two ways of making investments here. The first shortening of the planning phase, acceleration of the design and construction phase. We don't think this is the right solution, we'd rather prepare this investment from the planning side. Then, when we inventory the needs and inventory the challenges involved in its implementation It is not about whether, but how to make this investment, one of the best architectural studios in the world will be hired to prepare the architectural concept of the port. And then we'll talk about the proverbial first shovel. This will probably only be around 2022.2023. This is the area because the construction works themselves are not such a challenge as the preparation of this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u214	That's it, Minister? [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: Yes.]] Good. This is Senator Kazimierz Kleina, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I asked the rapporteur a question about the issue of funding for this investment. The cost of this whole project is going to be huge. It will also require accompanying investments, i.e. high-speed railways, etc., etc. Will the freezing, inclusion in one project of such huge measures not result in investments that should be carried out outside metropolitan areas... It's all about today's traffic damage and this. that this investment process will extend there and these express roads or even the voivodship roads, which should be built to make it easier for residents to reach their voivodship, metropolitan or Warsaw centers... Isn't that going to be stopped? As we look at the map of Poland today, we can see that e.g. The Central Pomerania is out of communication. A few years... Well, not a few. Three years ago, tenders for the construction of the expressway, the Kashubian route, from Szczecin to the Tricity ring road were suspended by the Government of Law and Justice. Now the minister says this investment will be resumed. But it was argued that there was no money at the time. That we can't build because there's no money for this investment. Does this mean now that this problem is going to get worse, that there will be no investment, that everything will be left, so to speak, accumulated for this large project, a central communication project, which seems absurd, because it would unfortunately lead to the exclusion of a large part of the Polish society, especially from these smaller centres etc. Right? If we add to that this project that the government is working on, building a nuclear power plant... This is another at least 50 billion zlotys. After all, there is no unlimited amount of money, especially since, as I say, you have recently said that there are no funds for road investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u216	Thank you very much, Senator. Does anyone else want to ask a question? [[That was the last question, the key question.]] [[No.]] Oh, no, not the last one, not the last one. No, Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Borowski. [[I, Minister, would like to ask...]] [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: A minute break, please.]] Good. [[I'll wait.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm declaring a recess until 4:19 p.m. [[Now?]] [[Representative of the Government for Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland Mikołaj Wild: I will be very obliged. I'd be very grateful.]] [[I understand.]] I'm declaring a recess. I have the right. [[It's a technical break.]] Well, if I had announced it by 4:18, we'd have to get started by now. [[This is a humanitarian break.]] You could call her that. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 17 to 16 minutes 19]] Thank you very much. I'm reopening the session. I ask you to ask me a question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u217	Minister, in answer to one of my questions, you have informed us how many passengers are served on Okęc 17 million a year. Is it counted so that they are counted and arriving and leaving, which is basically? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u218	We don't add up the number of passengers... I mean, not really... These are passengers operated by the airport... [[Here and there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u219	But that's what I'm trying to figure out. Because we have passengers coming from abroad, and they're transit passengers, which is a classic hub. And they're not going to Szczecin, Wrocław, etc., they're going somewhere else abroad. Are these passengers counted twice or once?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u220	According to my knowledge, according to the methodology adopted in this type of study, they are counted double. [[Double? Okay, so...]] Yes, because they're operated twice by the airport.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u221	So all counts are double. Good. It's compatible. So, do you know what percentage of the 17 million are those who fly from abroad and transit travel abroad from Okęta?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u222	At this point in time, I do not have the number data, but I can reply in writing, of course, concerning foreign passengers. LOT passengers, because it is mainly LOT that constructs its grid on the basis of a hub connected to the port of Chopin, are traditionally about 40% passengers operated by the port of Chopin. And from the passengers of LOT... At this point, It's hard for me to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u223	Okay, I get it, 'cause that's a pretty detailed question. But why am I asking them? Because it has been said all along that this Central Communication Port is supposed to be such a great European hub, which is primarily calculated for Central Europe, etc., etc. So it's calculated... on the passengers who will come, I don't know, from Croatia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and I don't know where, to Baranów and from Baranów will fly, for example. China or the United States. For that to be the case, there must be lines that will make it happen. Since LOT is not such a line and will not be long, because it would have had to have a lot more planes, it must be other lines. It's got to be. Lufthansa, it's got to be some Swedish lines, and I don't know which... And they're flying these flights today on other hubs in Frankfurt, Munich, maybe in Berlin, which you're a little disrespectful about, but it'll also be, in the British... in Helsinki, etc. Why should they move to Aries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u224	Anybody else want to ask you a question? There's no more volunteers? There isn't. That was the last question. And now there's gonna be some final answers. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u225	First question. Investment in Central Communication Port and other investments. The Central Communication Port, as is apparent from the exposé of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is the most important point of the Transport Development Strategy, which means that the investment effort, which does not involve continuing the commitments made, is what we are talking about when we are talking about the continuation of the projects that you pointed out to the senator in relation to... In this respect, the elimination of transport exclusion takes place first as defined in the CPK programme. CPK programme, i.e. multiannual programme Also provided for in the Act we are dealing with At the same time, it includes not only the construction of the port but also the extension of the railway network, to some extent also the road network, subject to the 3 objectives set out in the concept adopted by the government. The first goal, as I said, is to build a port that could replace the port of Chopin and have unlimited opportunities for development. The second objective is to put investment pressure on the development of the rail network so that it becomes competitive with road transport, because in this respect Poland has a lot to do. The third objective is to integrate Łódź and Warsaw into one coherent agglomeration, so that the agglomeration with a population of up to 5 million contributes significantly to economic growth. At the same time, we are aware that such decisions, if they were not supported by complementary programmes that concern regions, would be centred in regions, would have a very serious risk of deepening the effect that has gained its media name as a polarisation and diffusion effect, i.e. sucking potential from regions to agglomerations thus arising. Therefore, already in the resolution, in an annex to the resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November last year, we have provided examples of complementary projects that strengthen the cities at the end of the spokes. We are talking about a transport system based on a hub-based transport system, which is a system in which transport routes, especially railway routes, are concentrated in one place. We believe that cities located at the end of these rays should be supported in eliminating transport exclusion. Transport exclusion is an important challenge, and we believe that it is particularly important to exclude transport when it comes to rail accessibility in the Republic of Poland. Now the question about... remind me... knot? [[No planes to...]] [[Not enough planes.]] Oh, not enough... Yeah, I know. Ladies and gentlemen, the hub is assumed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Where are they coming from?]] ...through the lines... The hub is assumed by the airline, the hubs are not assumed by the airport. This is one of the reasons... Of course, the airport is able to provide very friendly conditions for passengers switching. This is the case at German airports, where Lufthansa has a terminal at its disposal, where passengers switching have the minimum time needed to travel between gates. But of course we are aware that there is no possibility, and there is no chance that we will convince Lufthansa to establish its next hub in the Republic of Poland. Lufthansa, who was not interested in creating another hub outside Munich and Frankfurt, Berlin, even if we were interested, would not be interested in placing its hub in Warsaw. So Finnair is attached to Helsinki. For this reason, which I have stressed, there is to be a gradual mechanism here, which can lead to the Central Communication Port being the main hub for Central and Eastern Europe. It's a gradual mechanism, but it's already happening. On routes to Canada due to the significant Ukrainian minority in Canada, passengers transported to the port of Chopin from Ukraine are the majority. It's already happening. Let's add that LOT's Polish Airlines are a kind of the last Mohican for airlines from the countries of the former RWPG, because other airlines or at least airlines that could be compared in any way to LOT's Polish Airlines They did not survive the open sky and were swept away either by low cost lines or by large airlines such as Lufthansa or the KLM Group. What happened with LOT is unique when it comes to Central and Eastern Europe, so we can be proud that there is no such situation as in Hungary with the fall of Malév. It is also a great opportunity for development. And it's already happening. At the same time, it is a great opportunity to consolidate the market on more partnerly principles. For such consolidation are not ready cheap airlines, low cost airlines, and it is not ready for traditional lines, especially from the Lufthansa group. Here please pay attention to the cooperation formula offered by Polish Airlines LOT to Estonian Airlines And these are the last years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u226	Thank you, Minister. Senator Klein's still here. You're welcome. He'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u227	I'm sorry to ask that question when I think they've been exhausted a long time ago... [[You're welcome, Senator.]] ...all doubts, but the Minister's answer to my question was a bit of a concern. Because this concept of circles and spokes in practice means that the Minister is suggesting that it will be possible only Well, of course not only, but it is such a simplification to reach Warsaw after these spokes, because it is like this axis of the wheel. And there's a question about the connection between those spokes. And I think it's crucial not to rule out smaller towns. 'Cause of course, I imagine it's gonna be easy. - No, it's easy today. Transport e.g. from Gdansk to Warsaw or from Łódź to Warsaw, but already from Słupsk or Koszalin... Also, it's almost impossible to drive between these cities easily, because they're... Well, it's possible, but it means many, many hours, which is kind of disproportionate to the distance in kilometers. Right? And if somebody doesn't make it before 2023, which, as the Minister says, is the year of construction, then there's basically nothing going to be there, and it's going to go just in this one direction. I am afraid that this is a bit like the one with the construction of the Central Industrial District in pre-war Poland. Many are delighted by this project, but it was a project that led to the draining of money, resources from the whole territory of Poland, and led to a deepening of existing development disparities. After all, the entire east of Poland was total poverty, including illiteracy. Pre-war Poland has deepened in practice the problems that were. She only had a few flagship projects that she did and we're proud of. But in practice this has led to a deformity of the state. Is there no such danger today? Of course, the conditions are different, they are not comparable, what was another level of backwardness before the war, which is different today, but such a concept of construction probably leads to such exclusion of entire provincial areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u228	Thank you so much for this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much for your attention. Of course, we took this into account, which is why in the concept that was adopted by the government, we pointed out that the hub-spoke model, which really is such a textbook example of well-organized transport, especially collective transport, due to the large number of... Because Poland is, just after Germany and to a similar extent as Spain, a country with the largest number of medium-sized cities. So we pointed out that the hub-spoke model should just be enriched with peripheral relationships. These peripheral relationships were in the concept, they will also be included in the program of the Central Communication Port. Let me say this: we are aware of this and we also have plans to make the hub-mouth model turn into a web model, so to speak... [[Will Expressway 6 be built?]] I'm convinced of that, but it's not... [[But not in this term.]] [[Not in this term of office.]] No, it's, I'm afraid, the subject...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u229	No. Next... Good. Are there any more questions? Because comments are later in the discussion. There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the representative of the government, the Minister, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the senators: Aleksandra Pociej, Jerzy Wcisła, Leszek Czarnobaj and Marek Borowski. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite you to speak... Who's first on the list? Senator Florek, please. Senator Piotr Florek is the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's so interesting. A friend of mine just asked me what's gonna be the first thing: the Central Communication Port or a million cars. And I would certainly be able to answer that question. But maybe I'll start with this Central Communication Port, because that's the topic. Today's proceedings. Well, on 10 March 2018, there was a third reading of this law in the Sejm. The law passed in the Seym through 3 readings, first, second and third, within 20 hours. It's in the case of such an important act the pace of amazing. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, rapporteur, said in the Sejm that this bill, after its implementation, would be a great honor to the Government of Law and Justice, that this law is already of interest to the whole of Europe. The whole of Europe. And he said, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments were tabled during the meeting, the 2 amendments of the Civic Platform were not good and were rejected, but the other amendments, the Rights and Justice, were good and I propose that they be accepted. So you know how. I also tabled one amendment today at the committee meeting, but it turned out to be bad. So I'll be right back. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not withdraw from this law on deadlines, etc., then, I fear, this may be the greatest failure of Law and Justice, of course, delayed in time. Because one thing's for sure: you're going to talk about a miracle that's going to happen between Warsaw and Łódź, and you're definitely not going to dig it up. Not a single shovel or shovel in the near future, because it's impossible. This area is, as the Minister said, about 3,000 ha or 3.5,000 ha, which is 30 km2. Repeat: 30 km2. I checked with Wikipedia. So it's going to be exactly half the commune. Please... Seventy-five thousand, and this is supposed to be 30 ha... No, good, miles. 30 km2, and the municipality has 75 km2. It'll be easier this way. 'Cause I wanted to go acres, but okay, let's pass it in kilometers. Ladies and gentlemen, there were questions about the sources of funding for this investment. Today, of course, they're not available. Well, hope in pensioners? Maybe they'll start flying and then it'll pay to build a port like this. The question can be asked, then, what about the financing of local ports, modernisation, because there is also a need for money, which is for sustainable development. I tabled such an amendment at the committee meeting. It's about art. 131. I will quote it: within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the Act, the President of the Council of Ministers may take over the shares or shares belonging to the State Enterprise, with his consent. Well, with permission, I'm sure it won't be a problem, I guess it's obvious. What shares does the company have in which companies and what it looks like with regard to our regional centres, we do know. In many regional centers, the State Company.Aeroports have a majority share. Well, I'm already suggesting here, what might mean by this writing of the article. 131. I'm sure he's very dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, as to the time of implementation, we have been talking about accompanying investments here. There was talk of roads, about railroads It all takes time. It is not that the whole procedure concerning the design, preparation and execution of the investment... Well, that's a minimum, at a good, fast pace, eight years. It's taking so long. It is not possible to access this network and do so in a shorter time. This Berlin-Brandenburg airport was another example. Well, I remember I was also supposed to be at the opening of this port in 2012. Today is the year 2020... [[Voice from the room: Year 2020?]] ...so it's been eight years since then. Well, it's about the ending. It is 2018, but with regard to the completion of this investment, it is planned for 2020, so it will be 2020 when it is completed. And you can say that this Central Communication Port is such a big propaganda humbug in this situation. Because, ladies and gentlemen, is it possible to do this under these conditions, what are they, with these finances? What about the other laws? What about the reprivatization bill, what about the urban-architectonic code? I could ask you about the National Property Resources, etc. What about these laws? All of this has been postponed because the Central Communication Port Act is an important and important issue now. So, ladies and gentlemen, what's in this bill? Well, this law is similar to all the specialities we have had so far, and it is fundamentally different from them at 2 points. The point is that this law introduces this reservation of the area, which was not included in this port. There is a question when she will enter into force, because the Minister here said that the Council of Ministers can do this for 2 years, up to 2 years, and then the voivode can do it for up to 2 years. This reservation can be made for a limited period of time, but in order to take further action, a localization decision is needed, because it triggers all procedures, procedures related to the purchase of real estate. Of course, it is possible to negotiate, to try earlier, as the Minister said, but only when the localization decision is issued, then, in accordance with the law, does it proceed to redemption. And now I'm going to refer to these procedures as they are here. If it doesn't make it to the location decision and it doesn't make it to the location decision, because the location decision... What is required, what documents? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we know that such a basic document is a decision on environmental conditions within the meaning of the provisions of the Act of 3 October 2008. This is one thing, but a lot of other attachments are required, including maps containing a land division and consolidation project. These maps are very laborious, you have to instruct surveyors to execute them, to develop them. All of this must be attached to this localization decision, because this decision approves, among others. divisional design. It's the same in other special laws. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no chance that this localization decision will be issued at that time. That's not enough. There's a real estate valuation. Well, that's always a problem. Real estate valuations will be done in a slightly different mode, not the same as in all other special laws. This will be done differently: first the value of the property will be prepared by the value assessors. The valuations of individual properties will not be carried out here, as was the case. in the case of roads On the basis of this, discussions will be held on the buy-back of the land. If they do, well, then okay, but if they don't, then further expropriation will be implemented. In general, it's all about expropriation, only that it's expropriation on the basis of redemption, negotiation, or expropriation by the voivode, which will happen later. And, of course, it's to be expected... We know that in the case of all these investments, the specifics implemented are a serious problem. Serious problems are with the decision, because these stages, which are one by one, are delayed. We know there are problems with the valuation of real estate and land purchases. And if you take into account the area of that part of the municipality that is to be covered by this location, you have to say that it is an unimaginable project, the largest that has been implemented so far. Therefore, the pace of these actions that are planned does not indicate that this is real. Real time limit for such investments You can ask professionals who make such investments The normal deadline for such an investment can be set at 15 years. It's real. Then the different stages will be prepared, tenders, which of course will also have to be, as to the implementation of this investment, etc. And this is a very complicated investment. Therefore, it can be predicted in advance that probably in the next year, in the next two years, before the election, we will discuss and talk about this investment, that it is all beautifully, nicely moving forward, and as for the final, what this finale will be, it can be said that it will probably be the same as with this 1 million electric cars. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I would like to end by saying that I am only happy with one thing: that this is all we are saying... that at this moment we are already at such a stage that everything we say can be listened to after a while, checked and in two years' time, in three years' time those of you who are about to say that it will be realized so that in 2027... I don't know, I probably will not be in this House in 2027, but it will all be to check, as many, many other actions we are taking. And that's what you should be happy about. However, what worries me is that such measures, such money, which, in a situation where there are many other important needs and the situation changes, changes the situation on the market when it comes to transport of different kinds, rail and aircraft, and when it comes to energy, because we said that we would soon run out of electricity, and it turned out that many years have passed... It's all changing. So making such a decision for such a period of time with such... [[Mr. Senator, you're out of time. Proceed to conclusions, please.]] Thank you. The conclusion for me is that this propaganda humbug will last for the next year, 2, 3 years. I, from the experience I have myself and also worked as an engineer on construction sites, am a surveyor, a wealth expert, and I have experience in carrying out investments, I will say that we will talk about it and account for it in the next stages. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u231	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Senator Florek, Minister, I'm afraid he's pretty good at pointing out the problems you're about to encounter in the near future, and maybe a lot later. And to be honest, when we tried today to ask the committee rapporteur what arguments convinced him and other senators to support this project, we did not hear such economically convincing arguments. We have heard from you about a vision and a condition that you and your projectors would like to achieve. It's true. As far as I'm concerned, all those arguments... I lacked something on which I could base my faith that it would certainly be. I stress: certainly well spent money. This is a huge amount. Of course, thank you for your courage, because you're not afraid to take the challenge to spend that money. I hope, however, that it is not just courage that you have really done your lesson and that you are able to answer all the arguments concerning time, complexity, logistics and everything that Senator Florek has just said. You spoke, Minister, about your faith in PPP. I would like to tell you that this has not been accepted in Poland. All your predecessors who dealt with PPPs are usually... I'm talking about the completely different meaning of these three letters. This is one of our misfortunes. Of course, I don't wish that on you, and all the more so do I appreciate your courage. Unfortunately, it is with us that the shortcut PPP is increasingly deciphered as a remember, the prosecutor looks, not a public-private partnership. I am not sure, Minister, whether it will be happy for this project to join the local decision. Let me remind you that the decision about the prayer was also very strongly contested. At the time, you were talking about it yourself, and there was a collision between the concept of the Mszczonov region and the concept of the Modlin. For the last 15 years, since the start of the Modlin and Mszczonów event, powerful money has been invested both in Modlin and the access infrastructure as well as in Chopin Airport in Warsaw. All that money, I have this feeling, has been thrown into the mud by your decision. If you really do, if you can realize your idea, if it's not just an idea for some propaganda... As Senator Florek has just said, it is not really feasible or cost-effective. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that... I would like to congratulate you, because you have responded very efficiently, in a way that confirms your education and your undoubted knowledge, which is theoretical for the time being, which concerns me. When I said that... From what you've said, I understand you're certainly not a stranger to the film Nikos Kazandzakis, the Greek Zorba. I hope you won't be dancing on the beach in a couple of years by a pile of junk, saying look, boss, what a fantastic disaster. I wish you otherwise, but I have great concerns, just as I have great concerns about whether it is for the district that I represent, i.e. for Warsaw and for Warsaw, that is a good solution, because, as I said when I asked you questions, I have some experience of the same distance as Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris, and this is not the best forecast. I hope that if you actually implement this, it will be a little different, because that forecast does not bode well. Thank you. Goodbye... I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u233	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! First of all, I agree with one of my previous speakers that this port will not rise. I just think that in the form you're talking about, he's definitely not gonna rise. It would even be good if it didn't arise because this discussion we had led me to conclude that... I thought this investment was much more prepared than it is. And after talking to the Minister, I'm very concerned, even though you couldn't answer the most important questions here. I'll go over them, but first I'll tell you why I think this investment is going to collapse. First of all, it is about the current air traffic and ports in the world. We here, in the Senate, probably a year ago or six months ago, have already had such a discussion on this subject. I have pointed out that at the moment, because of the safety issues at airports in the world, everyone is thinking about changing the system. It's just those big airports that we know, like... Frankfurt, etc., are already inefficient, are increasingly inefficient, increasingly dangerous and increasingly cumbersome for passengers. And everyone who flew and used airlines in the course of e.g. The last 20 years, we know very well how the quality of service has fallen dramatically both at airlines and at airports. This quality is, of course, decreasing due to the increase in passenger numbers and the emergence of low-cost airlines. But safety is something special, and I don't have to explain that in this world we're dealing with right now, there's more security at these smaller airports. And that's the point... You know very well that this port of Berlin, among others. He just tripped on safety. I'm afraid that in a situation where we don't have any experience at all in the construction of large airports, when there are no such people here, there are no specialists, there are no companies that are suitable for this... Because so far we have built airports that are quite well functioning in some regional centers, but they are such small airports. [[Not that kind of port...]] But I'd like to draw your attention. And the fact that what you were talking about... You were talking about this demand that you're hoping these lines will be paid for by this demand. I no longer refer to what Senator Augustine said, that Poles simply do not fly because there are no airports and there is no central airport. Poles don't fly because they don't have the money. And this move that you're making in a weird way. I really don't like the term "Ethnic," that's the move that once a year, when you get the money, people go to England or go to the United States of America to visit your family. And it's not like anybody can afford it or anything. I wouldn't count on it at all. Well, if we're not counting on this demand to be raised... 'Cause who's gonna fly? I don't think the young people, the pensioners will get poorer and poorer, we know that in 10 and 20 years we will not have rich German pensioners who will drive around the world, but we will have poor Polish pensioners. The next thing we've asked is the airline, Minister, and you haven't answered the question of who would this hub be operated by. By who? Well, you said you wouldn't be operated by Ryanair or other cheap airlines, you wouldn't be operated by Lufthansa, you wouldn't be operated by any other... I understand it's to be operated by LOT. But how? Where is it counted? How much does one plane cost? How many of them do we have right now, what's our fleet of planes? Think about it. Where we're supposed to operate these long lines, e.g. East? Unless you're also talking about the fact that we're gonna be operating these domestic lines, but this... sir, if this hub of yours comes up, those regional ports that are probably gonna fall. Well, we know that very well. And these cities should know by now. You're saying it's gonna be good for everyone to be there. How? If I have the same road to drive to Berlin and Warsaw right now, what do you think I'm gonna do? I'm gonna go to Berlin, but not because... I'm just gonna go to Berlin because there's a flight to town X five times a day, not like us, twice a week. Well, yes, it may be more common in this hub, but we'll never reach those German ports and I think we're aware of that. You're counting on those passengers coming to us from the Eastern countries. I understand that this is about Ukraine, for example. Czecha's the one I've never seen in my life at a Polish airport. And I don't think it's that direction for him... Why would he fly not from Vienna, but from Warsaw? Well, tell me... I'm sorry, I'm from Aries. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the next thing I want to say, which you don't consider. At the moment, these cities, which have airports close to them and are well connected, etc., benefit from this by providing services of various kinds to people setting up their businesses in these cities. And I assure you that every owner of such a company is the first to calculate whether he has an hour or half an hour or two. That's how it looks. Like I said, if I have less than 350 km to Warsaw and less than 350 km to Berlin, then how will this Berlin open... Please be aware that the Dolnośląskie, Lubuskie, Zachodniopomorskie voivodships will have closer to that airport. And by the time we're born, that's what's gonna draw the customers away. Well, unfortunately, that's how it's gonna be, that's the situation. So it's gonna be really hard to get into this business. And what are they gonna do then... Well, there will certainly be a decline in hotels in Warsaw in terms of hotel services, etc. But I don't really see how those people who want to stop somewhere in the vicinity of this Baranów, and drive such a joke to Warsaw, then push themselves all over the city... Well, we're not talking about that, and it's the next hour. You're talking about railway lines and stuff, but I don't know... Look at this node in Warsaw, with the Central Station. I guess this is the only point of getting to Central Station, isn't it? It's so close to downtown. And that's another question that comes to mind. See that where the airport is well connected with the city center, the big city, there these capitals are really developing, and there's any sense at all... And from that Charlesoi under Brussels, no one likes to fly because it's just a long way to go, and if it gets stuck in traffic, it's four hours to stand up. And it can really... So that I'm paying attention to this Berlin competition that... We're just... Maybe if we'd started with a project like this before, 20 years ago, we could have fought, but here I don't think we're gonna fight, especially because we're so weak in our preparation for this investment, because it's just starting to happen and being born somewhere. Next question, some have already said this: why this? What about nuclear power plants that are also promised to be built? What about it? I remind you that in 2020 we will have to reduce the amount of exhaust gas. And that's just what we have to do, otherwise we're gonna pay huge, huge penalties for all of this. The next question is time limits, etc. I have experience, too, and I know what she looked like. construction of the motorway bypass in Wrocław in the 1990s. We had to make all these transformations when it comes to preparing the land for an investment. Next thing you know, it's city planning, and so on. These are processes that go on. Everyone knows that these processes take so long. And here's the last thing. You say it's great to have another specialty. The Spec Act only testifies to the weakness of the state. I'm talking about it. We used to do the same thing, and the platform did the specials, too. I'm always going to say that the Special Law is proof of the weakness of the state. In a normal country, you don't need a special bill to do something right. And then there's the next line. I recommend to you the article by Witold Gadomski, which appeared about a week ago in the Gazeta Wyborcza, a very interesting, really excellent article... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[Time's up.]] ...of white people... Yes. ...about the white elephants, Mr. Marshal, that is, the kind of investments that appear to be attractive and become a big, huge problem for the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u235	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will no longer go back to the details, Minister, those that were discussed during the debate, and those elements that were addressed by my colleagues here during this debate. Don't take it so hard that those who ask a lot of questions are against it. I know that in Polish mentality this has happened, especially now that the person who asks is considered an enemy of the enterprise. In the 1970's, Tey's cabaret, where I grew up, transformed the saying: "Remember who asks, does not rule." And you're taking it a little bit. I understand that the Minister as a young man does not yet have what I am talking about in his genes. But I wouldn't want this investment... I would like it to be successful in Poland, because after all, if we spend 40 billion PLN and it turns out that it is a huge failure... Well, this is an undertaking that should not take place in Poland. Minister, I'm reminded of a scene from Barei's movie. But here's the lake. We'll move it. I think there's something in it. You've soaked a little bit of this philosophy: there's no problems, we'll move the lake, the population that's protesting today, I don't know. We're gonna pacify or we're gonna do something else. I want to draw attention to something else, Minister, until it's too late. As if for the purpose of today's discussion last week, an article by Professor Andrzej Zybała from the SGH on the subject of decision making in Poland was published in the Legal Paper. And I'd like to say a few things about the issues that we've been asking. And as if, in summary, what the Minister said about what it was like to proceed in decision-making... We have a 2003 study, there is an idea. In 2010, there is a study done by the government of Platform and PSL. And it's 2018, the main year is 2017, that's the information I got from the Minister. We've taken it into account. This is the Minister speaking. All these studies, i.e. some team, experts, discussed the state and put it under the government's deliberations, and the government adopted a resolution on the implementation of this project. That bill is the only thing that's gonna happen. Of course, the November government resolution says it should be nice, cordial, etc., etc. Okay. Only, Minister, I would like to return to Professor Zybała's statement. I recommend you, Minister, that's what you said last week. Until it's too late. Professor says that we, making a decision in Poland It doesn't say whether it's for the PIS or whether it's for the PSL and the PSL, of course I'll say, as a politician, that it's getting worse in times of rule of law and justice. We do not verify knowledge and confront other opinions of facts, and we simply make decisions on the basis of a romantic vision. I can say that it's a political vision. We're gonna build ourselves a port, a central airport. And of course, I would probably be convinced if I could see that we reached this decision in a strategic, fundamental way. And what did the professor say? That they were unrealistic visions instead of tested projects. So it's just a vision, and you don't test it on others, or on some kind of project, or analysis. There are no reports and no studies, which means we do not do studies on such an undertaking. And as an example, the professor describes the liquidation of the Government Centre for Strategic Studies in 2006, that's the previous hand of the PiS. And in this 2.5 year you have created 18 new state institutions. That's an institution, not a new way of thinking strategically. And, Minister, what is the subject of today's debate... This final decision, first the government, now the parliament, should be preceded by months of open discussion on this project. All these questions, Minister, which were here today, and even more, starting with the consultation of the people concerned, and ending with experts, should be subject to a long-term, I do not say, a long-term, month-long discussion. As a project that will project many decisions for seven years. That is why it is burdened with a huge mistake at the start, such a romantic work combined with a political decision: we will have a port. Why is this port... In 2010 there is a study and then there is a kind of silence. Too many reservations were raised and probably there was no will and time to settle them. I'd ask Senator Rulewski, because I'm telling him to turn around a little... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There were these reservations that I asked about, one of them is that this central port has a chance of success if the income per capita in Poland is at a level from France. I think it's $42,000 today, and in Poland it's about $20,000. Well, there's no way to achieve that. If we add such things to this, Minister, that we are going in the direction, as Senator Barbara suggested here, going from the central large ports to regional ports and even urban ports... Of course, it's one of the concepts, but I'd like these two concepts to collide somewhere so that there's room for discussion. The arguments of one, the other and the third. If we had been presented with the effect of academic and media-discussion work of the various bodies, and if this broad work had resulted from the concept of this port, we would have less doubts. Minister, I encourage you to follow up on this article. What is important here is a comparison with the Anglo-Saxon countries, of which I think we should take good things as things worth implementing and bad things to reject. And when making key decisions about this type of investment, at this level, with this size compared to GDP, they are developing the so-called. It's a green book. Such a challenge before decision-making is widely consulted in different environments: academic, opinion-making, experienced, but also inexperienced. And it is only after extensive consultation that this goes to government and parliament. And you guys did the exact opposite, against any... This is an example of the Eastern way of making investments: government, quick analysis... Did we analyze it? Then we're going to Parliament. The professor also writes that there are no expert reports and other such things. We should have at least 5, 10, 15 different kinds of expert opinions here. Because it's worth millions not to lose billions, Minister. And it's worth thinking about. The professor also writes that we as Poles I address this to all of us here, and we are afraid of neutral analyses, because they could indicate that we should act differently. After all, we witnessed here when we asked as an opposition what the opinions were, what were the analyses... These are just opinions, we don't take them into account, that's what we've heard. Well, that's a mentality to fight. An open man is a man willing to discuss who is not afraid of criticism, willing to analyze. And on the basis of that, he's proposing a project. And it's been going backwards for two and a half years. First the project, without an opinion, and if they are, then completely no opinions are taken into account... And those are the laws. They work in Poland, of course, but they bring various kinds of damage. It's going to be a double damage: it's going to end, because that's what it's going to be, a lot of small airports that worked, and that's going to be a mistake... Come on, God forbid this thing doesn't happen. Finally, Minister, I would like to convey to you what the Professor writes in the summary. I hope you'll read this article. An open man is one who is willing to confront his opinions with new facts, is looking for an opportunity to discuss, is open to this discussion and can defend his rights. All of this, Minister, is lacking in this way of making decisions. And that's why it's a terrible risk. The risks that go beyond the knowledge and experience of many, many people, many authorities. I feel that this is... the Minister's beautiful weapon. It's such a romantic-political vision: we're building a central port to keep something from us. Yeah, we started it and built it. Other arguments in this discussion are difficult to find. There are more uncertainties, reservations and doubts, as I said, both from the residents and from the experts themselves, who also raise various kinds of doubts. It could be discussed, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, disperse them or explain them. With such a course of action, I might be very strongly convinced of this idea and I would vote in favour of setting up this institution, for starting an investment, but with this kind of work, with this kind of... That's what Senator Florek was talking about: 20 hours, 3 readings and already in the Senate. Minister, until it's too late, I ask you to reflect. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u237	Thank you. You have the voice of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the very beginning, I would like to apologize to you all, because I am by nature an optimist. On the basis of optimism I built my companies and ran them for almost 20 years, on the basis of optimism I built my family, which I am proud of and which makes me happy. And so much so, Minister, I would like to start as enthusiastically as you, and tell you about this wonderful airport that will throw Europe and the world on its knees, but, if you'll excuse me, Minister, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'm also a pragmatist... I'm not a politician. I'm a pragmatist and I'm gonna have to talk like a pragmatist. But in the end, Minister, I will say something optimistic. It just so happens that once again we're trying something that unfortunately I can't call any other way than a legal bubble. And we've been through these two and a half years of legal stuff. Why? Because the way and dynamics of the bill voting in the Sejm Senator Czarnobaj spoke well just now. In addition to the Senate, we all have a number of doubts as to the validity of the creation of a central airport. I'm sure the PS senators are about to come forward and they're gonna talk the other way around, but it's gonna be something that they're gonna deny themselves. I say and appeal like a pragmatist: if we still have time, let's try to do it differently, not on our knees. As we see the way of legislative work in this law, it is clear that, as my predecessors said, First a concept was created, and now we will adapt arguments and analyses to this concept. After all, we all know that experts have repeatedly said in recent years that Okęcie Airport, Minister, is still expanding... huge possibilities in terms of expansion. Warsaw, as those who know it better than I do, needs Okęta, and Okęcie needs Warsaw. And to be honest, for the central airport, there could be a duoport of Okęcie-Modlin... I'd be... This problem you were talking about, Minister, is a problem to solve when it comes to Modlin. I wouldn't raise it at all, because it's zero, nothing compared to what we're proceding. And I would also like to say that we have modernised all regional ports and they, as far as the standard is concerned, are already similar, because I fly from regional ports and I know that this is the case. To ports meeting world standards, Minister. Boat, Radom, Lublin They can be satellite ports for Warsaw. Anyway, as you said in your speech, it's a 40% split. up to 60%, thus 40% passengers are checked out of the central port in Warsaw and 60% passengers are carried out by regional ports. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do not draw this conclusion to the end. We don't want to jump to conclusions. We're not analyzing. I was glad when you said... when I asked you if you were going to analyze this glitch that's related to Schönefeld... And I'm glad you're going to analyze it. But what I want to say is that in the world it is said that after the United States the second best organized state is Germany. It is worth considering why they failed. I recommend it. But it didn't come out of Montreal-Mirabel airport either. It didn't come out in Madrid. It is worth considering why it did not work out. But there is no guarantee or assurance that it will work out because we know how we can make huge mistakes. In addition, Minister, when it comes to residents, everyone in the country already knows that there is absolute pessimism about it and the whole community is against it. What good is that gonna do? 16 years ago on a large deposit of brown coal, a powerful deposit of Gubin-Brody, the arrogance of power led to the fact that to this day there was no mine and powerful energy sources. There will be a lot of resistance here and despite this specialty, it will be really hot not only in the country but also in Europe. After the construction of the airport in Baranów, Minister, we will have an airport farthest from the centre from all European capitals. I'm not arguing with you. I figured it'd be 45 kilometers, you calculated 36 kilometers, I could make it 36 kilometers. But there is no capital in Europe, Minister, which would have as far away an airport as we want to have. The construction of this port and the closure of Okęta also means, let's face it, Minister, you are a resident of this city; I address Minister Radziwiłł Warsaw's degradation. It means that she's declassified and deprived of her metropolitan function. It will also deprive cities such as Prague, which has an airport within 10 km, or Budapest, which has an airport within 16 km. The airport in Brandenburg, Schönefeld, is due to open next year. It is located 11 km from the centre of Berlin, Minister. It's worth thinking about. And we want to move from 7 km to stay with your concept. It's up to 36 kilometers. Finally, I would like to say that there is no economic merit in all this. When there are no financial arguments, politics is completely unconvinced. And the country with the big investment you're talking about, you've made a policy because the local elections are coming up, and the parliamentary elections are coming up. You've come up with a giant bang. As a member of the committee, I would say economically, I respected all the enthusiasts. When Prime Minister Morawiecki threw the slogan "million electric cars," I said two years ago at the committee meeting, let's think about what we are talking about. We haven't even done an analysis of how much it costs to create a pick-up point for a car like this. Minister, there's nothing to talk about today. The ministers who used to talk about it enthusiastically do not even want to come to our committee. I wish you wouldn't miss your enthusiasm, because the only hope that this investment will rise is your determination. You, I think, as one of the few, believe in her, and I understand you. I said if I were Prime Minister, I'd make you the head of the company that would do it, and you'd be responsible for doing it all. Thank you for your attention. As a pragmatist, I cannot vote in favour of something that is completely neither economical nor pragmatic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u239	You have the voice of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Right. We're gonna get a big investment. Centralism and monumentalism. Centralism is already being observed, but it is the first proposal of monumentalism contained in the Act. This is a serious thing. This isn't a discussion about whether we're gonna do this, when we're gonna do it and how long we're gonna do it. We're adopting a law, which, of course, doesn't end the case, even when it comes to financing investments. Minister, I am glad that you are a specialist and that you are a specialist who has not yet been absorbed by politics, because you say what you think very often, and you tell the truth. You made it clear that if a central port was created, Okęcie would have to be destroyed. You can build houses there, it's some kind of concept, but Okęcie airport will have to be destroyed. There shouldn't be any half measures here, because the traffic that is on Okęc, and it's the biggest one at the moment, is not going to move to the planned port. To do this strongly restrict, it may not completely eliminate, but to limit to local traffic, you will need Katowice-Pyrzowice, of course the port of Łódź, which is barely ten bucks, Radom, in which today there is basically nothing going on. Yeah, but it was built and there were some hopes. But Kraków, Modlin, is also limited. You're saying we can't build this in the Modlin, although there's infrastructure... That's not what you're saying. There's infrastructure in there. You think building an airport in a field from the very beginning is the best, the most right and probably the cheapest concept. I don't know if it's the cheapest. It reminds me of the song: "There's a stubble for now, but it's gonna be San Francisco." [[Voice from the hall: Jesus Mary.]] Well, it might sound good in the song, but in real situations... The estimated cost of this Central Communication Port right now is 35 billion, and it's probably going to be more. Where's the money coming from? And we need to remind you of what else... Well, you have to have your head back that we're also going to build a nuclear power plant for 30 billion zlotys, maybe 35, 40 billion. That's the estimate. It is known that this will not be in the budget of the state. The companies can't handle it. Well, what about PPL? Of course he can't handle it. What about other Orlens, Lotos? Well, if you put that on them, you're gonna burden them with that kind of weight, you're gonna put these companies on the ground. The port of Frankfurt on the Rhine, which is a huge hub, employs 80,000 people at the moment. They're so big. How did you... Are we gonna get to that kind of size? Such processing and employment? This port employs so many people, but not because it wants to hire them, just because these people are needed. Minister, at my request, you have characterised the distribution of funding and certain principles of this funding. Half of the funding, half of this amount of 35 billion is basic investments in airport infrastructure, access infrastructure, rail infrastructure, road infrastructure, etc. These are the biggest needs, and that's what the biggest sums will go for. [[Voice from the room: What does he have?]] Where's the money coming from? I listened to you, and I'd say I know how you got that money, because you described the financing characteristics given by the Chinese, the Chinese state. You assured me that the return would be... that this investment would have a financial return rate, that there would be an increase, and that it would be... Therefore, this part of the investment will be profitable, because something must be financed by the return of this money. And you said it would be... Exactly. Those who invest will be lending. That's what the Chinese do, of course. Yeah, they're crediting, they're lending for 30 years. And at the same time they give such conditions, which, in addition to such an investment, are covered by such credit. This means different prices for your own companies, in this case lines... Fixed prices, not different. Fixed prices for these 30 years and control over the operation... Minister, I've read these financial characteristics. And the specialists pointed out that... and the specialists pointed out that this is the funding that the Third World countries might agree to, because there's this rule... And then there's the investor's specialists... The Chinese bring their specialists, make an investment not only with their own money, but also with their own materials and with their own employees. This is an investment scheme that is beneficial to the Third World countries, not to us. If I'm wrong, that's good. But from what you said, from the financial characteristics of the first one... the most important part of the investment, I came to this conclusion: this is the Chinese system. If not, then who's gonna finance it? Well, it's huge money, money that's gonna be refunded for long, long years. I do not see any European actors who would finance this. The Treasury... the Polish state's budget is unable to finance it. The European Union will not finance this. Well, who did? World Bank? That's the main thing. 'Cause we can make a bill... And we're gonna pass this bill because most of us are gonna raise our hands and pass this bill. But there's a question of funding. That's the most important thing, and that's the hardest part. And I haven't heard any answers about that. I understand that the government will take care of financing, but, as I say, this is the most important part of the investment: financial assembly. So what's it gonna look like? When are we gonna find out about this? And that's where I'm gonna end... I'll end up like this. Well, I see that monumentalism. Gierek... I'm not going back to the pyramids anymore, but Gierek had a Huta [[But for the money of the citizens.]] ...and the current Prime Minister... He wants a central airport? It's a little too expensive for a monument. Let him make another monument, a cheaper monument, one that will be realized. And one last thing. You want to call it "Solidarity," so it's called "Solidarity." I would prefer that this airport, the central airport, be called Solidarity, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u241	Senator Dorota Czudowska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When I listened to the questions, I partially listened while in the room, because I had to share my attention among other matters that I had to attend to, and then I listened to them here in the courtroom. And so we sighed with the senator: Thank God that the Civic Platform was not in the interwar period, because the Central Industrial District would not be established, there would be no Northern Port in Gdynia and such engineers, and ministers such as Grabski and Kwiatkowski could not expand their wings and create it for us and build us a Polish interwar district, which was a great success of Polish scientists, engineers and politicians. And he thinks a lot... I think I'll be able to relate more to this topic of speech. I, the Senators of the Civic Platform, was also, from the beginning, a member of the Solidarity Platform. Well, I started out in college because the solidarity was created when I was in my senior year of college. I have no doubts and no objections... This port, which will rise, I believe will rise. And who's going to be called "Solidarity..." This is the most beautiful thing that can happen to Poland at the beginning of the 21st century. And let us not treat the word "solidarity," as it is associated with the word "solidarity." "Solidarity' is a much larger concept than that of trade union cases. I'm also a member of the "Solidarity." There are many names in Poland that contain the word "solidarity," even if some candy factory is called "Solidarity." Is there any doubt here? Let this port be established and let it be called "Solidarity" as a member of "Solidarity" since 1981 I have no doubt that it is a very good name. It's a great investment. Central Communication Port next to other major projects, which are political projects of our formation, such as the development of inland waterway transport, such as the construction of roads Via Carpatia, Via Baltica... These are great investments that make you want to live, you want to live those 10 more years so you can travel around our beautiful country. I'm in favour of what the Minister said... And I confirm that it's really not good if we have 400 or 600 kilometers to fly. It's best if it's on the railroad. I can do it on my own... The hurried train from Legnica to Warsaw takes 4.5 hours. If I fly by plane, I need, if there are no obstacles on the road, 3.5 hours: an hour to get from Legnica to Wrocław, to the airport; all these checks, boarding, etc., also take about an hour, an hour to fly with this passage, etc... And you still need to break through Warsaw by car, which sometimes takes more than half an hour depending on the time of the day. So three and a half hours... I'd be more willing to ride trains if they were more frequent and at convenient times, because these 3.5 hours are a waste of time for me. Well, maybe on the radio I'll listen to the news or say no to the rosary, 'cause I do it a lot on the way. But by the way, it's a waste of time. At the check-in neither read nor... And on the train you can read, you can talk to someone, you can even sleep. And that time is certainly better used. I wish we didn't have to fly airplanes in Poland if we were 300, 400 or 600 km away. I am not concerned that these small airports, i.e. Wroclaw, Gdańsk or Kraków, are not so small again. All of a sudden, they're gonna fall. It's not like passenger traffic can't stand a vacuum. If there are fewer planes from Wrocław to Warsaw, there may be more tourist flights. I'm tracking the development of the airport in Wroclaw. In 1997 I started flying to Warsaw... Although no, a little later, because these flights were so inconvenient... Somewhere since 1999 I have been flying to Warsaw. In Wrocław it was a barracks, so to speak, and perhaps 3 or 4 planes a day. And today we have several, with 6 or 7, connections to Warsaw, connection to the whole world, a beautiful airport. Why do we have to... On this basis, we would not have in Wroclaw, nor in Jasionka, where there are planes, which the Minister mentioned were flying to New York from Rzeszów... If we said, "Oh, it's not gonna work, oh, it's not gonna work, oh, no, no, we wouldn't have anything." I'm sorry to hear that such a beautiful project that can give Poland... We'll be transporting millions of passengers. I'm so special in this business, I don't know anything about it, but I can easily imagine that if there are millions of travelers, there'll be thousands of jobs. Don't we have a duty to prepare our educated youth jobs not only in mines, not just in places where human forces are exploited? Propaganda? A disaster? How can it be assumed that those who are involved in designing those who are responsible for this project have no competence, do not know what the valuation of the land is, do not know what administrative obstacles must be overcome? Well, how do these questions even arise, how do you know that nobody knows anything and that only former voivodships or civil platform officials know everything, and we certainly don't know anything about it? It's a great show. I am glad as a Polish woman that we will have such a port, because I believe that it will rise. And you say it's not gonna work out because it doesn't pay off. Well, it wasn't worth it to continue with the 2000 Odra programme. This is a great program that was created in the final years of the previous century. You closed this program in 2013 because it wasn't worth it, and I was defending it from that stand. A year ago, the program was re-accepted and there is great interest. The first class of inland waterway transport has already begun the recruitment of pupils. Legal bug? More optimism, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform. I also thought of the Golce song that President Bush quoted when he visited Poland at the time and watched our country change beautifully. And I'm gonna end up like this. Well, maybe a little different. Speaking of the Aries, where there is now a grinding ground, there will be a beautiful airport, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u243	Thank you, Senator. Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am not an expert on air traffic, but I asked for the floor because I listened to a long list of questions, and basically the complaints of the opposition senators, as well as a few voices in the debate... I have to say, I was sad when I listened to all this. This project, as the Minister has shown, is over-party. There are already some governing teams trying to try it on, and there's a chance that we can just do something together so that we can get on with energy, but also with optimism to work together. The law that we are to review today does not say that this airport, the central airport, or actually the Central Communication Port, will be set up tomorrow. This is the first step in preparing the whole case, and this bill gives us a chance to take part in it. Despite all this complaining, I strongly urge you to verify your attitude towards this and take part in this joint project. This is a project whose nature is obviously transpartisan. As a member of the Law and Justice Party, of course, I hope that this party will rule longer, but it may be that someone else will finish this project. It's spread out for so many years that I'm going to tell everyone that there's enough time to cut a ribbon and enjoy what we're going to do together. Meanwhile, I've been hearing this choir here for a few hours, you can say that classic choir: you can't, you can't, you can't, it can't work. For God's sake! You can't do that. Perhaps it would be worth looking at from the other side: how can we make it work? Poland is one of the largest countries in the European Union or in Europe at all... But no, we don't need an airport like the Germans have. They have several such airports: Frankfurt, Munich Spaniards In Barcelona, Madrid, too, but the main one is in Barcelona. Even the Dutch, a much smaller country, have a great Schiphol, etc. No, but we don't. We don't need it, just like we didn't need the cement factory, the steelworks and all that, did we? They're here now, too, and they're serving us. We like a colonial country, we consume, but there's an end to it. Well, there really is a time when you have to take matters into your own hands, at least try to do it. I think I'm just gonna go back in the form of these numerous analyses... Indeed, it is difficult for the Minister, who stood before us for so long today, to be reluctant to explain, to talk, and so on. After all, this project was not born today, we have been discussing it for many years and everyone tried to try it on. Well, let's do it together right now. This is of course a brave project, very difficult, but why wouldn't it work? There's been a lot of talk here about how long it's gonna take to get there. I think he was on foot. From the centre of Warsaw to Stanisławów or Baranów. Well, it actually takes about 8 hours, according to Google Maps. But no one's walking there. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking about different airport distances. This difference between about a dozen and twenty-something, and 30 kilometers today doesn't matter, because nobody's going to walk there, not riding a bike, not in traffic... It is clear that we are talking about the Central Communication Port, not the airport that will be in the Baranów, which we will have to get to somehow. Ladies and gentlemen, various airports have been mentioned here. I, too, have traveled a lot around the world, like most countries. And the airport we're designing here, I think it's very similar to that in Munich. It's got... Well, it depends which way you go, but it's 30 kilometers from downtown Munich to the airport. I was just checking the time of arrival by taxi and public means, i.e. by train or bus, such a Shuttle bus, it all takes about 40 minutes. And in Poland, in Warsaw, Chopin Airport, which is much closer, is reached As Google Maps show in 35 minutes at the moment. Well, I don't know if it's that big a difference. They're actually... Let's talk about time in a few years, ten years. It is quite obvious that many different things will improve at this time. And it's really easy to imagine a train from the centre of Warsaw to such an airport, which will be called Warsaw-Baranowo or Warsaw-Stanisławów. It's what other airports are called, e.g. Stockholm-Arlanda or just Amsterdam-Schiphol or Brussels-Zaventem etc., because these are just airports that are close to... And you will probably get to him much faster than in 40 minutes, because this train today, and especially in 10 years, will run so quickly separated track that you do not have to refer to today's traffic on the avenues of Jerusalem. It just doesn't make any sense to look at it that way at all. So I think it's brave, it's hard, but it's possible. And let's just mobilize to do it, like everyone else. Look, I know sometimes it sounds bad. The Ukrainians in Kiev built a huge airport, which today serves a large part of the eastern connections, just about 35 km away. And it works, doesn't it? Can't you do that? I am deeply convinced that this can be done. Moreover, I will be proud to raise my hand in favour of a positive opinion of this law, because I believe that in this way you can join those who sometime in the future will be able to say: yes, this is also my project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u245	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Indeed, in terms of what communication will be like in 10, 15 or 20 years, it may not be worth arguing about, because we know very well how technological progress can accelerate. Therefore, you can easily imagine that in the future 36 km can be beaten faster with an extra fast train than today's road to Okęcie airport with the help of a car. I don't think that's the most important thing. It is more important in what way such decisions are taken. Well, at the time when Minister Morawiecki, still as Minister, presented his strategy for responsible development, and this first version, i.e. these famous slides, was in the beginning of 2016, appeared so-called. flagship investments. And let me remind you that this was the Central Communication Port, that was the ferry And I think there was something else. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it's been two years and I'll be honest with you that I would expect information, even every year, from the government, and especially from Prime Minister Morawiecki, who put all this in there, how the work is done, how it looks. As far as we know, we don't know anything about Luxtorped. As far as the ferry is concerned, I'm about to ask you again about this case, because I've asked once before and it turns out that so far there's only a keel. As far as 1 million electric cars are concerned in 2025, if 1 million Polish electric cars produced in Poland were to be driven in 2025, because that was the case, the factory would have to be built already, because it would take about two years to build it, then every year it would have to produce 100,000 or even more cars, otherwise it wouldn't be done. In the meantime, there is no such thing. And that's why I direct it, among other things. to Senator Czudowska, who, with a large, so to speak, was optimistic about it. It's not about whether someone's a malcontent or not. Of course, there are malcontents, but I'm not a malcontent. I just see that Prime Minister Morawiecki is mastered by such a vision of great things that must be left behind, which in itself is not bad, that the matter should be clear, because we would all be pleased and proud if there were such big, serious investments in Poland, which would still be profitable, useful, etc. Only the thing is, it's not enough to throw the password, because then there has to be a whole very precise schedule, very precise analysis. I'll tell you more... And here I am referring to what Senator Radziwiłł said, who called for us to approach this project as unpolitical, beyond divisions, because it will be useful for all of us. It's just that if you want to do that to get to the bottom of things, you have to put it all like that. It is necessary to show earlier various kinds of analyses, it cannot be that in the Seym within 20 hours such a law is passed, while in the Senate there is an hour of discussion at the committee meeting, and then here we can of course talk. This cannot be the case, this is the way parliaments don't work in situations like this, at least those major parliaments. There the committee members get expertise, various, and critical, and such, and others, consider it, then there is discussion, the government presents it, eventually, if it is a good project, convinces and goes in this direction. But it's all been discussed. It's not like that with us. With us, these are political projects to show that... I'll tell you straight away, that the previous teams weren't thinking about it at all, on the contrary, they were selling out everything they could, and this crew is so, this team like Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski will build new central industrial districts. And I resent that. Because the fact that Okęcie is limited is beyond doubt. I can't tell you how much more room there is. It is known that the reserves are still there, but of course it is limited. And therefore, some other airport would be useful. And this is where I'm going with the Modlin case. Well, unfortunately, Minister, you've been pretty vague about this Modlin. You paid the most attention to the fact that the ownership structure is that there is no insight that it is impossible to see that there is a contract with Ryanair and so on... Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? A great country in the middle of Europe where the reprivatization commission can pick up tenements already sold, and here we have two state entities that are there, plus a marshal of the voivodship, and what? And there's nothing you can do? Here on the stubborn one, you can even pay this Ryanair compensation if you have to. And that would be a dime compared to what we want to spend there. You said environmental opinions that it would cost more, everything would have to be... Maybe so, I just want to say that these are analyses that maybe you have somewhere in the ministerial nooks, but they haven't been publicly presented, they haven't been discussed. I know the opinions of people who, of course, know the view you preach and say something completely different. Now, come on, man, pick one if you don't have access to it. It wasn't in the Seym, it wasn't shown, it wasn't shown here either. You have to accept it. What I'm saying is that the vision you've shown here is that Okęcie will be terminated as an airport at all, not limited... 'Cause let's just say you could leave some flights there, you'd have to think about the concept of what's left on Okęc. And meanwhile, here's the concept. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, then I have to say, I'm totally against it. I am absolutely behind the second airport, I just stress, I am not convinced that it must be the Lambs, because still Modlin is not in my opinion convincingly rejected, but I am absolutely against such a concept that Okęcie closes. Double airports are in very many capitals, very many, and they work. And finally, it's about the size of this airport and how many passengers will be handling it. I've been asking you about the details, well, it's understandable that you couldn't have known the numbers... But it's been said all along. Because I see such a delicate change of concept. It has been said all this time that the Central Communication Port will be a port which will be a Polish hub, that we will simply cause passengers from abroad to fly here and from here they will fly to other directions. That's what the hub is all about. Well, that's the question: which lines will want to move to Poland? You said yourself Lufthansa wouldn't move, Finnair wouldn't move, British Airways wouldn't move either. Let me be brief, no major line will move, at least there's no telling what the incentives would be, the incentives for one to move. We don't know anything about that. And you have to doubt if they're gonna move. You said good, but we'll drive the Ukrainians to Canada. Well, I wouldn't rely on the Ukrainians after all. They are very useful in Poland... [[Here...]] ...but I don't think that's the main argument or even the side argument. [[But from the States...]] Kiev will also develop, we heard about the airport in Kiev. Soon it will turn out that the Ukrainians will just fly from Kiev, that's all. So it just doesn't look like a hub to me. And if not, it means that it will be, as it has been so far, mostly a movement consisting in the fact that LOT flies and possibly other lines that are imported... and are flying out of Poland. And you went so gently in that direction because you said, "No, it's not about this hub anymore, it's about us raising demand." To be honest, I don't really understand what it's gonna be like to raise demand in a situation where a big airport is set up, whether in the Modlin or in the Baranów. Why would I do that? People will fly more when they have more money, opportunities, etc. And then Krakus and Małopolans will fly from Kraków, Silesians from Pyrzyc etc. And some will fly from Modlin or Aries. But I don't really see why suddenly, because of this central port, there would be demand. No. So, the sum of the summarum, there are very many here, Minister, question marks. And unfortunately, the procedure for preparing all this... If you look at what's going on with Luxtorpeda, the Batory shuttle and a million electric cars, you might think that the intentions here are overpowering. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u247	You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no doubt we've got a butter-knife duel here tonight. That's why there's a difference of opinion. The sharp attack of the knife, the minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki and the soft but pleasant taste of butter. And I was provoked by the Minister for two reasons. The first one I've spent 10 years and I've been summoned... even challenged. Yes, the defendant, because you used such a comparison that this Central Communication Port is part of the bike concept. You added a spokesperson. This is very important. As a result, you felt the essence of a bike spokes wheel. I would like to draw your attention, as the constructor of this wheel, but unfortunately not the inventor, that this is an extremely fine design that has not even been invented in scientific institutes. It was invented by craftsmen. Despite its delicate design, which consists of spokes, ring and tube or tire, it is the strongest, to say the euphemistic language, the strongest and cheapest solution among mechanical structures in general. I'm sure your penicillin or a feather of a bird wearing a massive mass pierces it. Yeah, and a plane lobe. And I don't notice. And I'd like to see that. For at least these materials to show that we are about to get a hub, a wheel that will solve the problems of at least the central part, if not half of Europe. So I would like to end this by agreeing with my colleagues today that these materials you presented Although you've expanded it a lot, you need to be given back, Minister. Rather, it resembles a broken rim with a punctured inner tube. Why? Minister, as you can see, the circle... Speech, very delicate, like a woman's hair, runs to the rim, passing power and energy. And then, notice, the hoop. She's also very delicate, but no one else, let's say, looks at it; I say it as a constructor. It connects all these spokes in circles. That's why it's not like you said everyone has to run to Lamb Gold... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...to go further from this Lamb's. And, for example, From Bydgoszcz they run to Aries Gold... That's the name it should be. Don't confuse Amber Gold with what might be... And then, by moving, by various technical means, pneumatic... Minister Borowski, Senator Borowski, because there was still supposed to be a pneumatic railroad. So they switch from one gate to another to fly to Toruń or to Bydgoszcz, because that's the distance. That's what the wheel has in common. And it's all a bullet in the bike, it's a bullet very quickly and by its own strength. So, unfortunately, there are actually constructions, constellations of constructions, collections, spaceships that are very deeply thought out and based on modern scientific development. I don't see science in this concept, I do see a certain desire. Well, it's also a beautiful construction, but it's already humanistic that a man has some desires. He has ambitions and desires. It really is worth emphasising, only that projects and circles, and this Lamb Gold are based on economics. And that's why you're right here, Senator Komarnicki... I'm a little supportive. I believe that without economics one cannot take a venture for 35 billion PLN. And this economy begins, as has been mentioned here, my predecessor... So it starts with marketing, that's market research, making sure that something like this is needed. And even if it is necessary, let those who want to fly turn their pockets and show what they have in them. Investments in all these hubs, all these airports, airport kits are being built and developed, sometimes even against, say, technical solutions, because they come there. In London or Brussels or Amsterdam and Antwerp, people with business, read: with money. It's either to leave them or to get them out. And when you talk about the Korean airport as a pattern, you forget that Korea is ahead of us when it comes to the financial markets that are kind of connecting Seoul airport and not just it, at least twenty. - or 30 times. And people come there not to switch to the next planes, and here's the wishful thinking, just to do huge business, buying. I'm not going to exchange brands anymore so I don't do cryptoreklama here. Something that makes him reign all over the world... You know what, because you have something in your pocket. And that's why you need a hub like this. 'Cause it's about money like that. And you shouldn't have talked anybody into it. I don't know if Korea even needed a bill to build this airport. Why am I saying this? I'm looking at the esteemed senator. When systemic changes were made in Poland, of course the general belief that they must be modern was expressed... Modernity meant air communication at the time. And the smartest, or at least the biggest businessmen in the world, the Americans, also came here, on their own initiative, but also invited probably by the Polish authorities. I wasn't that high, so I don't know. And they analyzed it. It was 1990. From this analysis, it was... Polish government concepts, concepts like the Minister's, reached 20 airports. The Americans said that Poland with such a wealth of pockets, i.e. with the wealth of pockets of those passengers whom the MP spoke about here... excuse me, Senator rapporteur 'Cause the Member didn't come, because he was afraid to stand at 4 airports. The Americans said four airports is what guarantees maneuverability. I noticed that you are very worried about profitability, only that you are worried, as I noticed, about the profitability of the Chinese, not Poles. Think about how much Poland will make, not how much China will make. Let them lose it if we make money. Why are you so worried about these Chinese? You know they've already played half the world and they've played the other half. So the Americans then calculated that only 4 airports can afford Poland, i.e. Poles, us, taxpayers, flat or empty pockets. I stress: at 4 airports. 13 airports were finally built and, as you know, Oh, this megalomania, which unfortunately I was also involved in, I admit, but I hope that the PiS will not put me before the tribunal. They stand idle and do not make profits, they only bring losses. I would have warned you about that, Minister. Make proof here that Polish taxpayers in the case of this airport, whether this airport will be the same as in your vision, whether it will be in Bydgoszcz or not. I think it's for the best. Or in the Baranów... You have to tell us how much we taxpayers are gonna make out of this. It's not like this is gonna be beautiful, it's gonna be great, it's gonna be great... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...with the inscription "Solidarity." And last but not least, this is the second provocation. The word "Solidarity," I do not know whether it is written in the word "Cyrillic" or not. It's supposed to be called... I, as the founder of "Solidarity," am asking for shares here, take this into account. In what way do you want to benefit from our efforts if you are not the Solidarity Government? What about me? The evidence, the stamp and the record in court prove that I'm entitled to the shares. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u249	Senator Shark has a voice. [[That's what you've got on the wheel...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u250	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After this deeply philosophical speech by Senator Rulewski, it will be very difficult for me to refer logically to... In fact, I would just like to correct or explain to Senator Czudowska, because she also referred to my statements or questions addressed to the Minister or with a reservation about this stamp, which Senator Rulewski spoke about recently... And I would like to remind you that the senator who commended this is among the 17 founders of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which was registered on 17 April 1989, and therefore has the right to this mark. This is also a warning to the Minister, who is no longer in the Chamber, but perhaps you will give him this country, because, ladies and gentlemen, And here I am referring to those reservations that Senator Czudowska was talking about. The "Solidarity" sign is reserved. There's no sign of "Solidarity" that Senator Chudowska was talking about. Well, the cooperative that produces candy isn't the one that makes candy. It was founded in the 1950s and that's the historical name. As far as the "Solidarity" issue is concerned, there is a connection: the Independent Self-Solidarity Association (Solidarity). We remember that. That's a restricted name. I was a member of the National Commission for Solidarity, chairman of the regional board, and therefore I know what I am saying. This is a reserved name to be requested by the National Commission and the National Commission may grant consent. But to my question, the Minister logically replied that it was not entirely settled, and I'm sticking to it. This is the name of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union. As the flag hangs and beautifully, it proudly flies over the airport in Szczecin. Now a little private. I wouldn't worry, Minister and Ladies and Gentlemen, because the first shovel I asked you would be in 2023. I hope things are gonna change. I'm also afraid... I hope that Modlin, if he wins... that we will not be against the people in the Aries building a powerful infrastructure. As far as Okęcie's concerned, I'm afraid. I confess to Senator Borowski that I hope that Okęcie will not disappear from our landscape, but will be part of this extensive airport. I want to talk about this here, too... Why are you so worried about me, Minister? My concern is that I have been going to Warsaw for 12 years. I have to tell you, I have more than 100 kilometers to the airport. I used to drive for an hour and a half, and now I drive for over two hours. And if I had to drive another 46 km from Baranów, or shortcuts, as you say, 36 km... I already drive an hour longer when I switch to the PKP, because that's the timetable. I'm losing my trip, Minister, seven whole hours, and until recently it was 5.5 hours. I would also like to say that we are all optimistic, we all want to work together. If you wish not to impose your ideas and invite us to talk and discuss, then we can start talking about the fact that this is our common idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u251	Thank you. This is the second time you've voted for Senator Blackbay. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to repeat some parts of my speech because I'm obviously misunderstood. I'll start with what Senator Chudowska and Senator Radziwiłł were talking about. A beautiful thing, as the Senator of Law and Justice says... Poland is beautiful. I understand she hasn't been so beautiful for two and a half years. She is beautiful with many investments that have been made since 1990. This is the work of many local governments, state entities and private companies. Poland does not look like this because you have been exercising power in Poland for 2.5 years, only because after 1990 new elements have appeared affecting the activation of the institutions that I mentioned. Senator Radziwiel says this: let's do something beautiful over division. I would like to say that I protest against such a philosophy of behaviour in relation to investment at the level of 35 billion. I would like to say once again that this type of investment is being discussed for 2, 3 years. Why was the 2010 study stopped, so to speak? It was stopped because there were too many doubts that no one could solve. All the studies that are already there had to be collected and done further, presented to the co-operative, discussed the matter, started with the machine looking for answers to the question of what the consequences of all this are. With the liquidation of the airport in Warsaw, with the liquidation of this place and its present tasks, various interests and human tragedies are also connected with activities in Baranów. And these kind of cases, from 35 billion to individual decisions, are very important issues. But there is also the question of what Senator Rulewski was talking about here, so beautifully comparing it to a circle, that is, the question of the cost-effectiveness of investments, etc., etc. So let's not make a decision as Senate on the basis of: let's take it and make it... Rather, let's take a proper analysis of the project, have a broad discussion, criticize our own understanding and knowledge, and then make a decision. Well, I don't want to bother you anymore, but who's been here today, you know... Mr Senator rapporteur for the most frequently asked questions at the Board meetings, i.e. what the money will be, where the funding will be from, will answer: this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. Come on, guys. After all, if this is the case with a serious subject, don't be surprised that we have doubts. We want to build beautiful Poland and if this Central Communication Port is to be a part of beautiful Poland, show it in analyses, studies, academic discussions, etc., etc., and not on the basis that you have shown this to Senator Marshal Borowski, i.e. on the basis of 10 beautiful investments, and each of them is in the sphere of dreams. Therefore, in the style of this political-romantic soul, which I spoke about in the previous speech, I can say that it is missing here, Minister, only the passwords of the decision, you above the levels fly out! and we will already implement it. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u253	Thank you. You have the voice of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't think I'm getting laid, and I think the High House feels the same way, as well as the broad public opinion. For those who are present in every case and who speak on every subject, who are familiar with everything. No. I believe that I am a lawyer and that I am taking the floor on legal matters. I'm not an economist, I'm not a manager. But here we are talking about the legal foundation, that is, the basic foundation on which the future great investment creation is to be built. Great! And how, ladies and gentlemen, is this legal foundation being built? One day in the Seym and an outcast immediately. Because it wasn't a normal transfer to the Senate. I'm talking about what happened at the committee meeting because I was a co-chair. The legislator said he didn't have the opportunity to draw up an opinion in writing. There is therefore no legislative opinion, because the legislator did not have time to prepare it! He did not have time to prepare committee members, let alone senators who are not members of the two committees of infrastructure and local government that dealt with this problem. How, then, can we talk about a serious approach to this legal foundation, ladies and gentlemen? There are some issues that have been raised. The problem of art was raised. 131, you reported this to Senator Florek to liquidate... Because we hear... And it was just one element of such, you could say, a quasi-public discussion. Well, we hear from employers, from LOT... i.e. from the Airports that this is the back way to take over this state-owned company. And that triggered a discussion about legal status. In fact, Mr. Mister also admitted that this should be the subject of discussion. 'Cause we do, ladies and gentlemen... There was a question, even from the PiS senator, Senator Pekkis, why it was supposed to be a company, not a state company. The Minister replied, 'cause it's better that way. Yeah, but it's supposed to be taken over... But the Airports is a state-owned company and it manages among others. Chopin Airport and other companies, etc., etc. The Minister said: we need to think about it, work on it, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, what should be the order? Well, in my opinion... I asked the Minister and he gave an answer that doesn't convince me. 'Cause the minister says it's not exactly five to twelve, but it's five to twelve, and that's why it's such a rush. So I'm asking, are there any penalties to be charged, some kind of deadline set? Well, what happens if we don't have a legislative opinion to take it? We are used to it, but in emergencies, when something is urgent, when something must enter into force when there are legal consequences of delay. We understand that. Well, it's in the interest of the state to do it, that's fine. But here? Well, we're two and a half years in government, and what? And suddenly a great revelation and within one day the Sejm accepts, the Senate without an opinion is to adopt such a serious legal basis. Well, it's a joke to say the legal basis of this future venture. Where are the opinions of the lawyers, where the opinions, where the consultations I'm asking you. Where's the expertise? I'm not talking about the economics that we've been talking about here. I'm just saying 'Cause those may be later, although I don't know, because I don't know anything about it, I'm not a specialist. It's about the legal foundation, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, it is difficult in this situation to support something that is actually, you can say, a kind of blind game, unprepared. Suddenly, as a result of the idea, we have one thing that we still need to do, of course... And there is a lot of consultation here, starting with local problems that concern my committee, but also the problem of those companies that are to be annexed. Yes, sir. Therefore, external appeals, businessmen, airport ports to eliminate this article. 131. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not how it's gonna be built, this is not gonna build such a big future investment on this foundation, and I'm pretty sure of it. So let's get started. from serious legal foundations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u255	You have a voice, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a big project today, actually a project that we seem to want to be proud of. Here it is created in Poland, in this part Europe's airport, which is one of the largest in Europe, is taking on a huge number of passengers, aircraft and other great things that happen there. And I'm sure everyone would want that to happen. However, when we come here, we look at how we approach this project, at least it raises doubts. For example, this extraordinary haste in this matter. You refer to a document prepared by the Civic Platform in 2010. However, it was not by chance in this document, and then in the government of Mr Donald Tusk, there were doubts whether we were able to implement this project. Of course, it was also a time of powerful financial crisis, there were problems both in Poland and in Europe, and for this reason it was also necessary to withdraw... [[Voice from the hall: And in the world.]] And in the world, of course. It seems to me that we are doing something like that again in Polish, we would like to say, we are inventing a big thing, and then in a compromising way we withdraw from it. In my speech, in my questions to the rapporteur, then to the Minister, I said that I was concerned that this project is similar, in this negative sense, to what seems to be some of the big project, which was the Central Industrial District. It was a project, as I mentioned, which, of course, resulted in a large number of companies being created. Although not quite... But it was at the expense of the whole of Poland. This deepened the large regional disparities. The whole East of the Republic, today outside our borders, was a land that was poor. The same was true of Poland's territories, which came from the former Prussian partition... These territories, when they entered independence, were wealthy areas, areas, and this time, especially for agriculture, was a period of very poor economics, because from this area the means were sucked out to build great buildings, I do not say that socialism, but great buildings of the times of the Second Republic. Today, you come into this idea as if from the time of this Second Republic in a slightly reckless way. And it's probably supposed to be a little bit like the big building blocks of socialism. And few of these great buildings of socialism have resisted the present and the following years. But that's another thing. I think that you are looking at what has been happening in Poland in recent years, when with various problems... I'm not saying everything was going perfectly and so on, but there were highways built, expressways built. It wasn't all over and far away... But there was a program that indicated that these things should be realized in a long time. You've pulled out of this, you say, no, that's what we're throwing into oblivion. I gave an example of expressway No 6 from Gdansk to Szczecin, where the whole was prepared, even the tenders were announced. It's been stopped. Now it's said The Minister of Infrastructure said that by 2023 the investment in its entirety would be carried out. Praise the Lord, for here we say that the airport has not yet started since 2023, so maybe we can do it. But there are still many unbuilt expressways, there are many things to do on the railroad. We're talking about high-speed trains, they're gonna be connected, there's gonna be new things... But look, in the last few years, the railway lines have been modernised, and there's a pendolino. You can improve it, you can do better, you can do something else. But start all over again? Why? We're not gonna deny it if you make a piece of express road that's gonna be a good one and it's actually gonna be a cool piece. But it's not there. I'll tell you about a few small things. On the railroad 'Cause the minister here was talking about the railroad. In the last 8 years, 7 000 860 km of new tracks, 2 000 300 bridges and overpasses, 750 modern platforms, 300 stations aestheticized and equipped with bicycle stands and other things completely modernized. In 2015, the national infrastructure manager gave 300 km of lines adjusted to 160 km/h. So that's what's been done. Why not continue? Why aren't you building? From the moment you took over, not a single railway investment has been completed. Yes. Many tenders are signed, many tenders are signed, but a large part of them are in litigation before courts. Even when it comes to the Kashubian route, which I mentioned here, which was to be built in full, a new tender was announced, 3 episodes of several dozen... no, together there is to be built only 50 km... But only one has been decided. One of them selected an Italian builder who was arrested in Sicily and everything was annulled. You've been in charge for almost three years. I'm not saying you're supposed to do miracles, but at least finish the things that have been started. And here you start with big cases, big projects. And nothing comes out of it. Remember this great success: the construction of the ferry in Szczecin Shipyard begins, the new shipyard is being built, we are rebuilding everything, as you said... [[Szczecinski.]] [[The bumper's here.]] The bumper is... [[Abroad.]] There's no more keel. It's not like ships never start with a keel. The first thing about building a ship is that it has to be known which investor this ship will take. Then the ship begins to be designed for a specific order. And there's no telling who's gonna own this ship. You don't know what it's supposed to be. There's no project. To my question, which I have submitted to the Minister of Maritime Affairs, I still have not received an answer today. [['Cause Brudzinski needs...]] That's just what it's all about. Just little things. Let's do it right. [[Let's get on with it. Let's do it.]] Little things. And you start off with big cases where you can't see the end or the prospect of ending, and they already have huge resources. They lead to such a situation that other investments will have to be stopped. Besides, even the Minister said in his part... Because we still have a special program for smaller cities, because there will be spokes, and between spokes, it will not be possible to communicate in such a way for a good cause. This is a pattern. It's a little bit like everything goes to D.C., to one place. This is a pattern. the functioning of the state... I don't accept this model, and that's why I might be so critical of it. It's a little bit like thinking like in Russia and a little bit in France that everything has to be done only in the capital and we're gonna slide down, and that's where we're gonna do all the business. As if things could not be handled on the spot between Gdansk and Szczecin, Wrocław and Opole. And these things need to be remembered. It's just... Poland is not just one center invented theoretically or factually, which is Warsaw, and then everything about it is about to turn around. This is not Poland of the future, this is Poland of the past. That's how you used to be built, that they were based on one capital, one point, and from him... But mostly in the East, that's what they did. It's just harmful. How do you plan on doing all these big projects? At the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, we had information about the progress of the construction of a nuclear power plant. I am not one of the great supporters of the nuclear power plant, but it turns out that the Supreme Audit Chamber stated that after 2015 all the work was stopped in practice and all the documents already prepared are out of date. And the minister says we're going to build a nuclear power plant. So how do we do that? How do I do that? Start over every time? Is that the style of government? It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing, but it's embarrassing, and it's embarrassing, and it's embarrassing, and it's embarrassing, and it's embarrassing, and it's Because Poland is ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u257	You have a voice, Senator Augustine. [[Szczecinski...]] [[Voice from the room: Please?]] [[How much money from the committee...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Surely in Poland a list of various elements that we would like to see, which we would like to have, which we would like to brag about, is huge, because the distance to the richest, richest, best-furnished countries is still far away. What is great neglect here is that we cannot see priorities well, but we must choose from this multitude of different needs with limited resources. So that's how I look at this investment. I don't know much about the economy, but I'm looking at it from a different perspective. Minister, I definitely underestimated that, I'm sorry. This year's deficit in all pension systems will exceed PLN 100 billion, only this year. And even though that's the case, it's a long way from the satisfaction of pensioners and pensioners, we all know that. And they will come, and we know that their salaries will be relatively low. It's all about the calculations, and so is your government. And when I think about this project, I think we need it. And here economists are also agreeable to a great investment in human capital, in people. There's no money for PhD students. There's no money for doctors. There's no money for decent, really modern education. There's no money for that, and we want to spend it on something completely different. I once met a mayor who was highly praised for being able to run a truly reputable upper secondary school in a small community. Although it is not the task of the municipality, he considered it a priority. Convinced the councilmen and made an exclusive high school for young people. When I asked him why, he said to me, "You know, it's not about building sidewalks, so that people would go straight ahead and get unemployment benefits. I bet on them to educate them, so that they could draw their own paths, build what they wanted, and live as they could. It seems to me that we still do not see that our priority should be to invest in people, in their potential, in their capabilities. Then there will probably be those who want to invest in airports because Poles will be wealthy and because it will be a good business. My doubts are whether we can actually afford it today and whether such investment should be a priority. I rushed back here from another meeting with the disabled in the seymoral hallway. And here's the question: what can we afford and what can we afford? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u259	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Augustyn has also joined the list of persons to whom the Minister has undertaken to reply in writing. The Minister would still like to speak. I ask for a brief statement, because I'm sure your strength is already very weak after a few hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the debate that initially concerned the law has begun to be a debate on the relevance of the investment itself. To be honest, if I knew the effect of using the formula of hub and spokes, I would remain with the version of hub and spoke, because it is a formula that functions in transport sciences. I didn't know what kind of filipia I was gonna meet. What I would like to stress is a method. We are very interested in the participatory model of this investment. At the same time, we must not forget a mechanism that is very often accompanied by strategic decisions, and which is referred to as analysis paralysis in management science. This is a mechanism in which, before any important decision can be taken, it is impossible to pass on to consultants, so that they take it for us, we commission further analyses, further studies, and it turns out that it is too late to start a real job. We have decided to implement this investment in one way rather than another, because nothing has happened that would have up-to-date the previous recommendations, which I will stress once again. It was clear that they were in favour of the construction of the Central Communication Port. There was talk of the involvement of Chinese capital and I would like this issue to sound very strongly too. First of all, it is not that only the Chinese operate in the form of financing the services they acquire. This is the usual practice of export agencies, this is how UK Export Finance works, this is also how other export support agencies operate. So it is not the case that when we establish this kind of merger, on the one hand, the execution and on the other hand the financing, we immediately go straight to the Chinese commitment. Besides, there is nothing to hide that the real Chinese model of investment, which works in African countries, will not work in Poland, will not work in Europe. Therefore, whenever I am asked about this, I say that we are aware that the concept of the Central Communication Port corresponds to the concept of the belt and the route pushed by the Chinese Government, but in order for these two concepts to be combined here, we still have to go a very long way, not only from our side, but also from the Chinese side. Finally, Modlin, who comes back here very often. Someone in the discussion very well noted, with all due respect for the port in Modlin, that the idea that the port in Modlin after expansion could be the Central Communication Port is comparable to the idea that if we build spoilers for the baby, we will have Ferrari. This is completely inadequate, this is a completely inappropriate formula of looking at this investment. And finally, what will Poland get out of it? Indeed, that is, I think, a key question. What did Rockefeller say? Even as a child, I learned to distinguish good people from bad people. Good people are the ones who bought my apples. So what will Poland get out of it? I'll give you some indicators. The port, which we have already mentioned today, not the first freshness, the port de Gaullea in Paris, is 195 000 jobs, is EUR 15.17 billion of the contribution to France's GDP. The port in Madrid is 300 000 jobs and 15 billion additionally generated billions of euro contribution to GDP. If we are talking about whether we, our economy, can afford it, then I would reverse the question: can we afford not to take advantage of this opportunity, also against the challenges that await us? It's not a bottomless piggy bank, it's an investment. That's why I'm talking about it. That will benefit our economy. [[And how many passengers do they have, not employees?]] [[How many employees?]] I was talking about the employees. [[You told me, but you...]] [[But he answered that question.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Ladies and gentlemen, one last question. We are aware that the adoption of this law is only the first step. The law itself also provides for the adoption of a multiannual programme, which will constitute a government strategy paper and as such will still be consulted, will also be subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment. We are at the beginning of the road, but we do not see any reasons why we should doubt the analyses that have been drawn up in the most objective ways possible. Well, we use the analysis of political opponents. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u261	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. It's been 6.5 hours and we're moving to item twenty-third of the agenda: the Personal Data Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 811, and the report of the Committee in print No 811 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u262	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commission has dealt with this law today. The Act serves the application of Regulation No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC. The new law will replace the law in force since 1997. The draft clarifies the issues that are permitted by the Member States to regulate the functions of the supervisory authority, the appointment of the President of the Personal Data Office, which will replace the Chief Data Inspector. This change will not affect the continuity of the body's functioning. As so far, the President will be appointed for a four-year term by the Polish Sejm with the consent of the Senate and will be subject to the Act as regards his duties. The project provides for mechanisms to reduce the time taken to deal with personal data breach cases. This time will not be longer than 30 days. The issue of financial penalties in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on free movement in the Member States has been clarified. As regards the amount of penalties that may be imposed on public bodies, the maximum penalty is PLN 100,000. In the case of cultural units, the maximum penalty is PLN 10,000. The Act contains new solutions in the field of personal data. It is about certifications, which will confirm that the institution processes personal data correctly, ensuring the protection of privacy. The Act also introduces the possibility of preparing codes of conduct, which will be a set of data processing, taking into account the characteristics of the environment concerned. The Commission proposes that the High Chamber adopt a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u263	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Marek Zagórski, like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Comfort. There you go. Minister, please come to the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u264	In its opinion, Minister, our Legislative Office raised the following question: if the law amends only certain editorial units referring to the repealed law and not in others, then there is a question of the effectiveness and functionality of such regulation referring to non-existent legislation which cannot be applied to such a legislative technique. Today we talked about this for a while at the committee meeting. I'd like to ask the Minister to answer that plea. The Minister responded at a committee meeting, but very many people, i.e. Most of the people here weren't at the committee meeting, so I'd really like to ask the Minister to answer. The Senate in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u265	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u266	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The problem that signaled the Senate's Legislative Office is due to the mode of work on the bill we took over. It is based on the fact that in addition to the Act on the Protection of Personal Data, we process the Act at the same time. . Introductory provisions. At the same time, the draft law, which introduces the rules, which are in fact changes in sectoral laws, is still at the stage of government work. In order to make you aware of the problem we are facing, I would like to say that the analysis of changes in the laws that are necessary has shown the need for smaller or larger amendments to around 400 laws. At the same time, we have conducted a very broad consultation process of this whole package, which, due to its complexity, has simply extended as well. In this connection, we have decided to separate these two laws so that we can put in place a package of laws, which will not be so big, as we have decided that these changes will ultimately affect about 130 laws, which are essential to implement or implement the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Regulation in an efficient manner, and that we should be able to put into this package, which will not be so big, as we have decided that these changes will ultimately apply to some 130 laws. I would also like to say that this is not a single case, specific to Poland. Other Member States have a similar problem. In a similar mode works are carried out e.g. in Germany. Germany was the first to adopt the basic law, which in our case is the Personal Data Protection Act, while it is still working and there is not yet a deadline for completing the work implementing sectoral legislation. They also need to change about 200 laws. That's what it looks like in Germany. To point out the problem we are facing, I would like to say that in the last few days the European Commission has corrected the GDPR, which in this case was not purely a legislative correction. So we still have a lot of work to do on it. We anticipate that this whole package will be held in Parliament at the turn of June and July, this package of missing changes. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u267	If there isn't... Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u268	Minister, I would like to ask why it is entered as the date of entry into force of the Act on 25 May 2018. What is the reason for this, and did it have to be such a rigid determination of the date of its entry into force? I ask once again about the doubts of our Legislative Bureau, which said that this somehow narrows down the President's field of action, which normally has 21 days to think and sign the bill. Here, in order not to interrupt the legislative process, he will actually be forced to do it faster, in a much shorter time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u269	The main problem is that the EU regulation enters into force on 25 May. Therefore, we should implement the provisions which have remained at the disposal of the Member State in accordance with the Regulation at that time. There are many rules, e.g. provisions relating to the special services that are governed by the Personal Data Protection Act. If we hadn't implemented them... These are exemptions for services in terms of national security, but not only. If these provisions did not enter into force, these exemptions which we are implementing by this law could, for example, result in, for example, that during proceedings conducted e.g. The Central Bureau of Corruption Crimes could request information about their personal data processed by the CBA. First example from the shore. There is a whole category of cases that... The same applies to IPN, the data set processed by IPN, etc. In addition, we wanted the rules, in particular procedural ones, relating to proceedings before the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection, so that the entire package could enter into force from May 25th, so that there would be no doubt and even a one-day period of uncertainty as to what rules were in force. Because the Personal Data Protection Act, which has been in force since 1997, is simply incompatible with the EU Regulation and would not apply in most cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u270	Senator Shark, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u271	Yes. Thank you very much. Minister, how long did it take to work on this bill? Because you say it's been going on for a long time, and yet you anticipate that, in the context of the EU's changes, there will be another amendment to this bill, and it will be under discussion at the turn of June and July. That's the first question. And second question. How many services do we have today that base their activities on this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u272	As for the first question, I will say that the work on the law, the public consultation started at the end of the first quarter of 2017. Probably even earlier, as I remember, permanent arrangements. We formally concluded the process of consultation with NGOs and various stakeholders in October 2017. These consultations resulted in more than a thousand different types of comments to this package. Over a thousand pages. This was also the reason why we decided to separate these 2 laws, i.e. the main law and the introductory provisions, because otherwise we would have to take all these comments very unambiguously, not to examine them too detailedly, or to leave this time for further detail. This was also part of the promotion of these issues. I can say that this happened to a very good party, we have e.g. That's what I'm gonna say, the laurels from organizations like the Panoptycon that praised us for the transparency of this process. Yeah, but it's for something. It just took a long time, unfortunately. More than 300 representatives of these organisations took part in the conference summarizing the consultation process in January, the Sejm's Column Hall had to be designated for this purpose. As for the second question, how many servants do we have, I understand that this is about what services have lex specialis. That's mostly all the special forces. In addition, special derogations, as I said, concern IPN, we also have a whole range of exemptions for administrations, which are designed to improve the processing of data by the administration and which we consulted with the European Commission, as well as modelled on German solutions. The point is that the GDPR, which is actually quite complicated, does not cause administrative paralysis. It goes on for example. about data that were collected many years earlier. The purpose of collecting these data has already changed and they are still being processed, they are still being used, e.g. all aspects related to matters governed by the rules on civil status offices. We've introduced these kinds of derogations, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u273	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u274	I'd still like to ask the Minister because... I don't know, I think that was two terms ago when there was work on the Personal Data Protection Act, especially the sensitive ones. I'm talking about the service here. They fought very hard, among others. for unlimited access to citizens' personal data. And I don't hide that I'm very afraid of that either. So it is very good that the discussion with these organizations lasted so long. Which is why I'd like to ask... I'm talking about these services, ignoring the IPN, etc., etc. You know, CBA, etc., etc. How many are there?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u275	Homeland Security, Counterintelligence Service... Except that the basic reservation to be clear is that all services and the whole range of matters relating to national security are excluded from the GDPR under the Regulation itself. Thus, as if by the power of the GDPR, on the basis of the Regulation itself, military services are excluded, all of them. That leaves ABW, becomes CBA, issues... [[Police, et cetera.?]] Police... As far as the police are concerned, matters relating to the processing of personal data by the police will be governed by the police directive. And there's work to be done on the bill that implements it. Except I'm saying this isn't about accessing data, it's about processing data already collected by these services. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u276	Are there any more questions? There isn't, right? [[I...]] There you go. I'm sorry. I'm just looking for Senator Secretary. You're welcome. [[I can, right?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u277	Minister, I have a slightly different question. Today I spoke to a friend of my school worker and said we would have this bill on the agenda. And she asked me to ask you that question. When this law comes into force, will they be able to hang a tableau in schools with pictures and signatures, who is who? Whether writing journals about schools, anniversary, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary will it be possible to sign photographs, already archived, names without asking permission or including a list of participants in a celebration?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u278	Actually... Thank you very much, senator, for this question, because this is an opportunity to dispel some myths. Surely the Personal Data Protection Regulation has one purpose, i.e. to protect our personal data. But there's no purpose to completely paralyze our lives. And with all the authority of the minister of digitalization I will say: on May 25 the world does not end because of the entry into force of the GDPR. And such a basic principle, which may not be written down there, is common sense. This is the first basic rule that we should stick to and verify everything. It will also deal with control mechanisms that will be applied by the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection and its services. Many myths have grown around the GDPR. Yesterday, Principal Kawecki, sitting here, sent me the footage from a member of his family. What we're talking about is a member of his family who told us that at his place of work they're going to ban employees from using the Internet and buy special computers. And in other institutions, you buy special shredders so that they're even narrower and that there can't be anything... Well, all of this is a surplus measure and it comes from a panic, as well as from a practice which, with premeditated intent, some of the institutions or some of the organizations, companies use to do business in the context of this reform. So the tableau will definitely be able to hang, it's part of the school's work. If we're already talking about publications that are being published, then probably if we were to publish photos here... Although, actually, here, too... I'm sorry. There is a special regulation that excludes press publications and scientific work, so it will be easy to eliminate it. Generally speaking, if we collect this personal data, we must remember that we must simply take care of it. Where this processing is in principle not commercial in nature, there is much greater freedom and it is only necessary to be prudent, above all, to be prudent. [[Mr. Senator Czerwinski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u279	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why is it that you have included some of the amended provisions in this law, and that some of them are only to be reworked and included in the introductory provisions? Does this result from the fact that this review will take so long and we just need to think more carefully? On what basis was the choice made? And that's the question... Oh, and is such a technique of implementing the law, i.e. in part as steps, ever applied in Polish legislation? Because it's one thing that's been applied outside, but are we? And the second question is, will the rules that are yet to be introduced include those that at least said so in the media? Are they going to modify the electoral code when it comes to the use of webcams?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u281	Firstly, such a technique is used permanently, because in the case of large-scale laws, we always have the main law and the introductory provisions. The fact that, as a rule, they're always like this... Maybe not always, but in the case of major legislative projects, major amendments are usually 2 separate laws so that later it would be easier to work on this project at all and to make the bill clearer. At the same time, it is also that in most cases these laws can be carried out jointly, i.e. At the same time. In this case, ♪ Like I said ♪ The scale of this law and these changes caused, however, that we decided to separate it so that these essential solutions could enter into force on time, or on May 25. At the same time, we have decided to include some of the provisions that we originally planned to include in the introductory provisions in this package. This was about those things that seemed the most urgent to us, and those that we had agreed on and worked out. This applies e.g. issues related to video monitoring regulations, but I am not yet talking about the electoral code, I am just saying, for example. about the labour code, i.e. the regulation of the application of video monitoring in workplaces, schools, the application of it by municipal authorities, as well as exemptions which concern whether the prosecutor's office or IPN. It's such a fundamental reason. And I confirm once again that the work on clarifying the provisions of sectoral laws is indeed very, very tedious. not only because they cover a very large range of laws, but also because we have more and more knowledge on this subject after consulting the European Commission, following an analysis of how some exemptions have been applied in other countries. This will make our package more rational, above all what is important for Parliament, for us, and especially for citizens, more modest. The original number of pages of this basic draft was 800. Yeah, we were kind of scared to look at it. At the moment, we have significantly reduced this number, which is also the result of this work. She just has to go on for a while. In the provisions of this law, as well as in the provisions of the Sectoral Act, we will not refer to the electoral code. If there were any change... As I understand it, the senator is talking about the reservations of the general data protection officer on the issue of the possibility of carrying out monitoring at the polls. Well, it's the matter of another law. And another ministry. I don't know anything about what it would look like and run. [[I'm sorry, I'm just gonna ask. So this EU regulation, generally speaking, does not require us to interfere with the electoral code. Yes?]] No, but the rules that result from GDPR can affect interpretation and, above all, the assessment of whether monitoring It does not matter whether in the electoral premises or in public places it fulfils these conditions resulting from the security of personal data processed in the framework of this monitoring. [[And this is about assessing the facts, not the law?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u282	Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, it was a terror, as we found out about this GDPR. At least that's the social feeling about it. I'm trying to find something positive in everything, and I think it's these new needs. Instead of GIODO, we'll have a GDPR, in short and colloquially. The reason for this is that we have new information technologies and the possibilities for obtaining and trading these data are huge. Right? You can have millions of data on the flash drive. This concerns companies, especially IT departments, although basically all departments, because we have everywhere, as the Minister has just said here, the Internet and these technical capabilities. We have two groups of people here, i.e. employees of companies. We know that there are huge numbers of these trainings. The question arises as to how appropriate the competences of those who carry out these trainings are. There are, of course, some mental barriers here. There's a huge number of private people... The Minister has already mentioned one case. I would like to mention the second one, which shows the extent of the confusion resulting from the lack of information on this matter, and perhaps also from the dangers actually true. Here's an example. I organize competitions like this every year in Tarnów. In these competitions prizes are awarded, and these competition works are then printed. Information about this competition appears in the press. Luckily, the application for the competition is through a form in which there are certain wordings which largely exhaust the requirements imposed on us by GIODO or by GDPR. It even turned out that when she received the award... the person I wanted to tell you about here won the first prize. She, accepting the transfer of copyright in order to print this work, completed the second form, much more extensive. Then, in receipt of the prize, she filled out the third form. And suddenly, after a month, you submit a letter that she wishes to erase all her personal information. But the financial reward, not that little notabene, she already took it. The question is a little different... I have to deal with this case alone. If I ask for the help of a lawyer, that's another matter. Actually, I have two questions. Does the State provide Isn't that a little neglected? However, in order to circulate, I would say, social communicators to pass on the knowledge of what is the scope of these regulations, and in what situation will the citizens of our country find themselves after 25 May? That's the first question. Second question. How much of our regulations... I've noticed a certain tendency. We in Polish law often overzealously implement certain directives. Such a good quantitative example is the Public Procurement Act There's 60 grand in there, and there's 15. Aren't we overly thorough in the implementation of the directives? That's two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u284	Thank you very much. A few more general issues. The main fundamental objective of the Personal Data Protection Regulation is to protect the personal data of citizens of the European Union, including Poland. Due to the entry into force of the GDPR, citizens who do not carry out any economic activity have no... There are no additional obligations imposed on them. If they do not process personal data, no obligations are imposed on them and they receive a whole range of additional rights. This is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin concerns those who process these data, i.e. different actors and administrations. If there are privileges on one side, then there are responsibilities on the other side. And the whole art, of course, is to ensure a proper balance. Here there is also an aspect that on the one hand data should be protected, and on the other hand it is of course business, also in a good sense. The business based on data is the future of the economy. And keeping this balance is difficult. The senator is asking about overzealousness. We have been accused throughout the work process of wanting to loosen the rules too much. We still face such accusations both from the media and from various kinds of organisations dealing with the subject. The European Commission has also pointed out various things to us in the process of working on the law. We were also attracted by parliamentarians when the proposal to exclude small and medium-sized companies from the GDPR, not from the whole GDPR, came to our attention, but from some of the information obligations. Then we had a pretty big fight, and we had to get out of it. So it's hard to talk about overzealousness here. Moreover, we have introduced a number of provisions which, to put it mildly, did not like the European Commission. We went here in this mode: if for example. The Germans have allowed themselves to introduce such laws into their bill, and we will eventually sit together on the bench of the defendants. As far as information is concerned, I encourage you to go to the Ministry of Digitalization website. There is a whole package of both business and administration materials. Together with one of the NGOs, we have also prepared a very short-term guide, which contains several general points for micro-entrepreneurs and citizens. In addition, on May 25, we are launching an information campaign. We're not the only one who's running an information campaign. As I said, apart from NGOs, such activities are carried out by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology and, of course, by the General Data Protection Officer. I have the impression that today's problem isn't access to information, it's their proper filtering, because there's just a lot of it right now. And that's why we decided to go a little bit further towards simplifying this at this stage. This is, of course, very difficult and risky moments, because we do not want to tranquish this process, but yet we have decided to focus on principles, on the general message, and those who want to go deeper into it will, of course, find this information. I also want to say that big companies will be able to handle this, and our concern is for small companies. And I have one bad news for the senator. In this case, after the entry into force of the regulation, such a person, at least under certain conditions, will be able to benefit from the law which gives the regulation, i.e. the right to be forgotten, but also after fulfilling a number of conditions. [[I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u285	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u286	Minister, this last sentence You didn't worry me. The Minister doesn't know the statements you signed, so maybe this isn't such a bad situation. Nevertheless, I can't imagine that someone is getting a financial reward, a reward for something, and that it's then taken away. I think it's a logical situation, and unfortunately I'm afraid there's gonna be a lot of logic. The only thing I would appeal for... Because I received the answer to two questions, but in that case I will ask the third question so as not to strain the Senate's Rules of Procedure here: are the Ministry and the authorities of the state that are dealing with it ready for corrections? There is no doubt that in this respect there will be many situations in which the rule book will not stand the test of time. So it is with our legal matter, that then life shows that it needs to be corrected, and the sooner it adjusts, the better, although it is not good too soon. So here we have to do what the Minister said at some point, to mention this good balance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u287	I'm sure where we can correct it, we'll do it. However, the problem is that most of these issues, which were also due to the statements or questions of the senators, are enshrined in the Personal Data Protection Regulation. In fact, national rules, in very colloquially speaking, soften or exclude certain provisions of the GDPR relating to particular categories of entities, wherever possible. So if it's... We see now that it is clear, a whole series of cases, the provisions in this regulation, which are either vague or unrealistic. Today, at the committee meeting, we discussed how to verify the age of the child, how to determine whether he is 16 years old or 13 years old, how to verify whether the person behind the computer is at that age and not at that age. I'm sure there'll be a lot of that. Where this will belong to the powers of the Polish legislator, we will, of course, intervene directly, and where there will be the possibility of interfering at the level of the regulation, then it will already be a matter of our activity at Brussels level.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u288	Are there any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, perhaps those more than 10 years ago, when we met, neither of us thought that we would meet in such a arrangement: me as a senator of the opposition, and you as a minister of the ruling party. I wish I could. Not because of these years of knowing, thank you... You probably didn't expect to come to us and the warm words will come from the opposition senator. But thank you very much for what has actually caused you some trouble, I mean, for this legislative process. It so happens that since 2,5 years have come here even twice as many laws, while we can get to know them for 5 hours. And you can only dream of a public consultation. So that you are a glorious exception to this map of joyful legislative work over the past two years. I know you're not guilty of the fact that the President will only have a few days to sign this bill, not a constitutional, legal 21 days. And it's too bad. I'm gonna say it again. That this law couldn't have gone any faster through the Sejm to reach us, to the Senate, two weeks ago, because it would have been beneficial for everyone. But luckily, this whole process you've provided gives this bill credibility. I have not so much a reservation for this law as I would like to go back to the original text from which the Ministry of Procedation began. Well, I'm talking about the age limit of a child, to whom, with the consent of his statutory representative, services provided directly by electronic means can be offered. I know that the regulation allows forks 13 and 16 years, and I also know that the country in its first legislative reflex defined this age at the same time as 13 years, and I know that later for some reason you agreed to 16 years. And I would like to remind everyone in this Chamber that people over the age of 13 have limited legal capacity. Such a person may conclude contracts in minor everyday life matters, i.e. go to the store and buy first-needed items. Such a person can buy a ticket to the cinema, to the theatre, to the museum, can buy and sell on Internet sites with certain limitations, but maybe. Such person may hold a bank account Of course, the opening is with the permission of the guardian . and can freely dispose of the funds collected on it. Moreover, such a person may even establish an employment relationship for a cultural, artistic, sports or advertising entity and carry out legal activities relating to that relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have such provisions of the Civil Code, and since we give, of course, with the consent of the statutory guardian, children over the age of thirteen such a range of legal activities, with a view to the advanced and certain sinking of these young people on the Internet, where they often move much more efficiently than us, adults or even very mature people. I see no reason why this right should be limited. I will therefore make an amendment. I know that it is this logic that there is little time left, even if my amendment was accepted by the Ministry or by most of the colleagues in this Chamber, that you will unfortunately have to reject it as soon as possible, because it will not be time for it to return to the Sejm, because then... But when I make this amendment, I would just like to make it clear to my colleagues that this action on the last bell makes us narrow our own capabilities. And even though I expect it to be rejected, I'm going to give it a pro memorial for all of us, so that we can get to it sooner. Or sometimes not so fast. For certain laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u290	Thank you very much. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must say that, in a rather rapid manner, I decided to speak briefly after the Senator had tabled the amendment. We know that this time is not enough, that there will be a mood here. whether it is a spirit or a need to adopt this law without amendments, but I would like to say in substance that I am, somewhere in my heart, opposed to this amendment, and I would like to express it. In fact, the Minister has already called it into question in part, saying that it is extremely difficult to verify the age of a young man who sits at the keyboard of a computer or another device equipped with a keyboard, whether in front of a touch screen or otherwise communicates, because at the moment it can also be done in voice... Well, I have to say that in the first decade of June we have a meeting, as the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, with the spokesperson on the rights of the child, who will present his report to us next year. And in many of these reports, but also in many studies that show us the situation of using the Internet, social media and other types of ICT technology, people interested in this matter can see that on the one hand young people use these tools well, and on the other hand, to the surprise of many who are familiar with these materials, they are well aware of the dangers involved. There are very extensive surveys, very interesting, concerning networking over the Internet, placing many of their data on the Internet, among others. photos, and these pictures in very different situations, because these surveys were very precise. And in the following parts of these extensive surveys, there was this question: but do you, knowing, knowing the dangers, put these data? And these young people say they're putting it in. They put it in, knowing about the threats, and they put it in, because it's cool. I think that applies to us adults, too. We are increasingly agreeing to things that we do not want to do, because civilization requires us to do it, because there is a need that there is no other way, that someone was defending himself from some form of civilization, but at some point he could no longer and had to... I think this amendment, however, reduces some resistance. I wouldn't want to say that I don't believe young people. I believe them, I think young people are fantastic, young people are good. The problem is that we support them so that we can adjust the weight of the decisions we put on their shoulders to the level of their development. I must say that I have spoken from this speaker several times, for example, about reducing school age to six years old. It is obvious that intellectually these six-year-olds are suitable for school. Intellectually, mentally suited. There's an emotional problem. There's obviously not much change here, and there's even some research that says it's changed to a disadvantage, that an increase in intellectual and other civilizational skills causes emotional development to shift, that Well, we know the girls grow up early, boys a little later. In general, there is a shift to an even later age. That is why I will be wholeheartedly opposed to the amendment tabled by the honourable senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Pociej. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, because the subject is really important. I'm gonna start by saying that what I was talking about at the committee meeting, I'm gonna say it again. It is not quite so that in some drastic way we will limit the possibility for young people between 13 and 16 years of age to make decisions on the Internet, because most of these decisions, which they make, take within the framework of regulations on various types of social networks, gaming portals, etc., etc., and parents' consent will be required only when dealing with a contract. It's gonna be exactly like when you make a deal at the bank. To create an account at the age of thirteen or a little higher, you need to go to the bank with your parent, and then you can do these operations yourself. That's one thing. Secondly, as I also said at the committee meeting, there are several countries that have decided to maintain this limit of 16 years of age, such as. Germany or Belgium, as well as the very liberal Netherlands, as we discussed. And I would also like to say, referring to what Senator Wind was talking about, that, indeed, the awareness of young people Growing This can be seen as a counter-argument. But I'll also say that awareness of threats doesn't mean that they're completely eliminated. It's like alcohol: well, we all know alcohol is harmful, and yet we happen to use it. Therefore, this is probably also the case. Finally, I would like to say that the difference of opinion about this age was in the course of the whole legislative process. And I can tell you that one of the people who had a grudge against us was slightly mistaken, because the bill we submitted to the Sejm had a limit of sixteen years... One of the people who accused us of lowering this age was, for example, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. Therefore, this inconsistency of the opinion concerns not only the coalition but also the opposition. If you don't mind, I'd like to thank the senators for their support during this work. Indeed, we are a little bit against the wall under pressure of time, but I also hope that we will have a little more time to discuss while working on a package of introductory provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The text is contained in print No 812, and the committee's report In print No 812 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee... [[With a formal application, may I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u295	There you go. Mr. Marshal, I don't really know anything about this, so I'd like to ask. Because the senator is also the secretary. Who are we gonna report to when the senator reports to?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u296	To me. [[I don't know because...]] To me. [[Mr. Marshal.]] [[What a pleasure. Thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee which considered the law on the amendment of the law on the system of common courts, the law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. In principle, this amendment amends 4 laws: the Supreme Court Act, the General Court Law, the National Judicial Council Act and the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. The amendments introduced by this law are aimed, among others, at: to: to change the entity entitled to appoint court assistants of common courts; to change the basis for an emergency complaint; to introduce an obligation for the President to consult the National Judicial Council before deciding on the further appointment of a Supreme Court Judge after he has reached his retirement age; to limit the circle of persons entitled to lodge an emergency complaint against decisions which had become enforceable before the date of entry into force of the Supreme Court Act; to have the power of the National Judicial Council to object to the appointment of the applicant to the position of Judge of the General Court. The Act also introduces appropriate transitional provisions for the amendments adopted in this amendment. As regards the work in committee, at the very beginning of the meeting two proposals were submitted by Senator Rulewski, i.e. a request to postpone the examination of this point until the arrival of a representative of the Government, as well as a request to interrupt and postpone the examination of that item due to ongoing proceedings with the European Commission, negotiations with the European Commission. The Legislative Office expressed its opinion on the bill. Some of the comments made by the Legislative Office were substantive. Senators Jan Rulewski and Alexander Pociej... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, they're disturbing you.]] ...spoken critical of the bill. [[Please don't interfere with the proceedings.]] Senator Pociej filed a motion to reject the bill. This request was not accepted by the committee. Mr Mamotkow has submitted a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendments, which has been accepted by the committee. The High Commission therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u298	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u299	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry... It's my fault because we talked here for a second, and I didn't hear if the senator was talking about whether there were representatives at the committee meeting... Was anybody from the government involved in this important bill? And was there any of the Members of the applicants, especially Mr Ast, who was appointed as the representative of the applicants? Did anyone show up at this committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I said there was no government representative. Indeed, I did not mention that there was also no Member of the applicant. As far as I know, this isn't just a domain of this Senate term, so... [[Wasn't there anyone?]] It's true. It wasn't... [[This is a government project?]] [[There wasn't much in that term either.]] He's not government. This is a parliamentary project, Mr. Senator. [[But to make sure no one's here?]] [[Then why do you even need to process?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u301	You're welcome, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u302	However, I would continue, because this is another change. I think we're gonna go into the next stage of the USP and Supreme Court changes. These are very important changes and I cannot imagine us discussing here without the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Justice. This is a bill tabled by Members, but the questions should be addressed to government representatives, because they will be implementing the law. We were convinced that this law is very good, that it fundamentally and well amends the current law. Today we don't actually have... I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. I have great respect for you, but it is not for you that I should direct all my questions and reservations, and I have many. I had a lot of them back then, too. I would ask, Mr. Marshal, if any government representative would come here. If not, I would propose that the debate be postponed until the ministers wish to come. I would remind you that it was Minister Wójcik and Minister Warchoł who stood here just a little while ago, who led us on matters quite important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u303	Thank you very much, Senator. You know this is a parliamentary project, so there's no obligation for government representatives to be here. We asked for it, but government officials, apparently, aren't here. [[But can't we ask questions? We have a record in the Rules of Procedure of the possibility of asking questions to government representatives.]] If government officials show up and maybe show up, yes, of course. [[Well, let's take a break until...]] Would the senator like to comment on that? [[No. I have already addressed this issue. It's hard for me to add anything else.]] Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u304	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Not because I'd like to bother the Senator rapporteur... Once again, the fact that there is no one here who is the author of the bill and who could answer our questions is quite uncomfortable when we have a very strong negative opinion of our Legislative Office. But okay. I'll ask the senator a question. Senator, the patron from the Legal Office has expressed her opinion on §3 of the Act, where 2 sentences have been changed. At the same time, she told us that leaving the middle sentence makes it impossible to understand It's about a revised article. If the judge goes to rest automatically on the day of the age of sixty-five or otherwise. The second sentence states that, in the event that the proceedings relating to the further occupation of the Supreme Court judge after the age referred to in §1 are not completed, i.e. in that paragraph, which the patron said was that for the first time in her life she saw that this would be a legal standard if that legal standard was in the same paragraph. The judge shall remain in office until such time as the proceedings are concluded. And your patron showed that by reading the first sentence, i.e. The President of the Republic of Poland may agree to continue to serve as Supreme Court Judge within 3 months... Well, there's a collision here that makes it impossible to understand this standard. Would you mind, Senator... Because there was talk about it, so could you answer your doubts, Counselor? What's it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u305	As a general rule, according to the article. 37 of the Supreme Court Act, which wishes to remain in the Supreme Court and adjudicate further, after the age of sixty-five, should at the latest 6 months before the end of this century make a statement to the President by means of the first President of the Supreme Court. The first President of the Supreme Court shall attach an opinion to this statement. Plus the president. Now, in accordance with this amendment, he will also be required to consult the Act on the National Judicial Council... I mean, the National Judicial Council. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And according to the amended Act on the National Judicial Council, the Council has 30 days to deliver such an opinion. So the President may agree to continue to serve as Supreme Court Judge within 3 months of receiving the opinion of the National Judicial Council, which in turn will have 30 days' opinion. And in my view, this second sentence is justified, which states that the President's failure to give his consent within 3 months of receiving the opinion of the National Council is equivalent to the retirement of the judge as of the age of sixty-five. Because, in general, it can happen in practice that this deadline set for the president will pass as soon as the judge of sixty-five years of age has finished. In such cases, a third sentence is involved, i.e. that the judge will be able to remain in office until the end of the proceedings, and thus until the three months appointed to the President to decide on the appointment of the Supreme Court Judge after the age of sixty-five. That's how I understand it, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u306	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u307	Mr. Senator, this bill and these changes are already in a completely different context from the one in which they were in the Sejm. Have you discussed how this amendment meets the European Commission's expectations to restore the rule of law, independence of courts and the proper functioning of the Supreme Court in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! The senators wondered whether the proposed change was in line with the European Commission's expectation, but I cannot answer the question of whether the European Commission would accept the proposed changes in this form and whether it would respond positively to the changes currently proposed. Yeah, I think that's what we've been doing so far... [[Today we know it, we knew it this morning.]] But the procedure continues, the negotiations continue, this bill is not yet in force, so Commissioner Timmermans has not spoken on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u309	No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo, who is represented in such an important matter today by so few! Once again, we're updating the Supreme Court Act. This time. Despite the repeated assurances made by the ministers who came here, despite the confidence of the Members who were the applicants, it turns out that this law needs to be amended by taking a step backwards. Because what are these changes really about? They are not based on the fact that someone thought for a moment and decided to formulate the rules more wisely and to separate the competences. It is a purely tactical procedure, which is calculated to please this so criticised by the Member States of the European Union. And no one even hides the fact that taking away the powers of the Minister of Justice in the field of courts and judges, the appointment of assessors 'Cause it's one of the most important changes. This is not the result of thinking about anything and reflecting on the threefold division of power, but it is the consequence of half-retreating from what was done to the justice system a year ago. And as I recall the days before the year, July 21st... I remember from them the speech of Judge Zabłocki, who today, I am listening to, is an example which gives lawyers their patrons, an example of how to formulate ideas, how to argue, how to defend their values, if you are convinced. I remember the Ombudsman's speech, in which all these warnings were formulated, as this tampering with justice will end. And it ends with a reiterade before the Union and against the threat of the Union taking money. Can we talk about any reform of the justice system under such conditions? After all, it's instrumental, change is just to get the money. And I remember Minister Warchoł, who came and mocked what the Union could do to us. Where is he? I don't blame you, I would feel stupid to come here and be forced to unscrew everything I've said with so much self-confidence. There is also no Minister Ziobra, who gave a longer speech here and who then collided with, as the first institution, the President of the Republic, who comes from his own political environment, and who vetoed this law. And putting everything on the Union didn't make sense then. And since then, a law that hasn't yet entered into force had to be amended how many times? Once? Twice? And now, she barely came into force after the Prime Minister went to Canossa, it turns out that the President is the only one who should have something to say about the judges. Isn't that what you could have done at the time? No. Everyone who spoke here said that everything was okay, that there was absolutely no doubt. We have said this today again about this method of proceding. Well, it's a scandal how we treat ourselves. I mean, they're treating us like errand boys who've got a case to pick on. And it doesn't matter if any mode is preserved or not. [[That's what happened.]] This has been going on for two and a half years, Mr. Senator... [[No, it was in that term, and it is.]] [[No, no, please, it's...]] Senator, you remember that the scale of this is incomparable and incomparable are also the laws that we are proceeding. Against this background I praised Minister Zagórski today, who... You can make a bill if you want to do a good job, and you can ask everyone. Of course, Minister Zagórski said that this causes delays, that they had to work all year or year and a half. But we were gonna... After what he told us, I, as an opposition senator, could have full confidence that he was doing something that wouldn't be changed in a month or two. 'Cause that's what happened to the KRS. We made legislative proposals, of course, very often with the help of the Legislative Office, and then what did it turn out to be? They were rejected. From the majority This was the case during the debate of this 21st of July, and there was a request not to discuss it, for what was the point of this discussion. There was a statement. There were these statements. And I'm not here to name these guys, tell them who argued. They said, what, you want to talk? And then I was just looking at where they were when the ministry came and brought the same amendments. And then suddenly no one had any doubts. Because I would understand that in a situation where I was put on a mine, and after a few months, when the bill didn't come into force, I was forced to unscrew everything, and I did it all in good faith, by chance... Then I would at least come up and tell such a minister, one and the other, that I was placed, gently speaking, in an uncomfortable situation, because I have not much to answer to my opposition colleagues who said the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, it was once again done by mistake because propaganda material was needed. And even if some records go in the right direction 'Cause I'm not gonna sneak up on you, and I've always been there for it to go towards the president. That's it. only half a step back. So even if it's not the worst setting of this bill, she still has all the sins we've talked about every time. And we said it was done on the knee and that no one was thinking about the consequences. Why is he suddenly retreating... Remember, fellas, when your minister of justice said he didn't want an emergency complaint, because without extra resources, without building it up, he couldn't handle it? This is the first time he's said the exact same thing as the ombudsman. But I don't... And why are we pulling out of the others now? And the spokesperson for the rights of the child... They don't have a chance at all, because the bill's been running for a while, and they're so swamped with work that you can't see them from under... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I therefore submit a motion to reject this law in its entirety, because it is again an unprepared piece of paper, which we will change in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u311	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u312	Mr. Marshal! I also wanted to say out of habit, Minister, but the government jury is empty, as I was just talking about, said my previous speaker. But this really requires constant emphasis and reminder that this is a clear disregard for our House. The lack of a full debate, and as a pre-debate, is an opportunity to ask questions. I understand that they wanted to create appearances of a step forward, that is to say, taking into account the previously ridiculous Venice Commission. Her position was considered to be one opinion that could be treated in the same way as a master's or doctor's opinion. Mr Timmermans said that these were not satisfactory changes because he already knew about them from the Sejm. And so the air went down. Well, there's no interest anymore, there's no interest. Why are we even doing this? Why are we doing this? Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind you one thing. During his previous term of office, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, in January 2013 a conference was held entitled I would like to say that there is still a publication on this subject in the Legislative Committee, which can be read. I've had the privilege of editing scientifically... and organizing this conference. Ladies and gentlemen, there are statements, among others. Former Minister of Justice and now Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Gowin, who supported the concept put forward by the National Judicial Council, where, on the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2007, I quote: "The Tribunal, by repealing the regulations on assessorship, accused, among others. dependence of the office of the assessor on the Minister of Justice, lack of a time frame for entrusting the assessors with judicial functions. But mostly it was about addiction, which is a violation of the principle of three divisions of power. And then they all agreed. I would like to quote my introductory word for this discussion: "But it would be an asessura with a revised appointment procedure, because it would involve both the National Court Council and the President, and not the Minister of Justice. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a quote from this publication after the 2013 conference. And then what happened? Of course, the reversal, so to speak, of concepts, understanding the three divisions of power and breaking the constitution. And we're back... I mean, Members, a group of Members goes back to this idea to save, to show that yes, the president needs to be involved in order to establish... Yes, very good. You could say that. This is a step forward, only if the National Judicial Council isn't... free, which means it won't be dependent on the Minister of Justice. What is this independence from the Minister of Justice, if we transfer his powers to the President, since we have individuals in the National Council of Justice and we do not know whether they have been chosen correctly, or whether the signatures have been collected at all? Even the first president of the Supreme Court did not reveal this great mystery. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we see what the National Judicial Council is like. How can we talk about the spirit of the asessor's independence? How can we talk about meeting the requirements of the European Commission? Well, that's taunting. It's just messing around. This is some kind of cat and mouse game. Well, I'm sorry to say this in the High House, but that's just the way it is. That's what it looks like, 'cause... I will not quote this, but here are a number of very, very interesting articles, proposals for the restoration of the institution of the asessor, by your Supreme Court judge Katarzyna Gonera, Antoni Górski, judge and former head of the National Courthouse Council, who with one voice said that it was necessary to make the asessor independent from the executive authority. And here we see that the purpose of this law is to change the entity authorized to appoint court assistants. Yeah, but these asses are already contaminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious charge. If the applicant authority is non-constitutional, what will be the status of these assessors and judges? Further, a change in the basis for an emergency complaint. I'm reading what's the subject of this presentation. After all, the European Commission's guidance is clear: the emergency complaint should be eliminated in its entirety. I said, is this a step? What is this step if you leave this complaint and just limit it in a way? Well, after all, ladies and gentlemen, the sentence... That is why there are extraordinary institutions, which are the deletion of the judgment and the resumption of proceedings. We have two institutions that allow us to shake the sentence, a final sentence. And it's done. This is seen in the example of a man who spent almost 18 years in prison, and now he is preparing to resume his course. Then why the emergency complaint? Well, if there's new evidence, new circumstances, or something is based on a crime, false testimony, etc., etc., then there are instruments that allow a valid sentence to be touched. They exist, they're owned by the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, and they're also owned by the Ombudsman when it comes to cancellations. Then we ask why we're trying, why some combinations, restrictions, etc. It is clear that this emergency complaint, even in the sense of being able to identify, was a complete fiction, with which we all now agree. And we're from this pulpit. I'm talking about the representatives of the Civic Platform, among other things. I was talking about it, too. And indeed, Minister... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Already? [[Yes.]] Minister Warchoł laughed, and now he's gone. So that I maintain, of course, the motion to reject this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u313	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u314	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I address the absent government. I would like to say that this is an absolute embarrassment, Mr. Ministers, that today you have vomited, that you have not found the courage to come here to say that this will probably be the last version of the judicial laws, because after Mr. Frans Timmermans' visit, they should be changed. Dear Government, Dear Ministry of Justice, absent today, I am surprised that you put your colleagues in such a position of law and justice, insanely embarrassing, because today they will have to support a law that is no longer valid and is flawed. So that I would like to express my condolences to the honourable Senators of Law and Justice. It's not the first time you've eaten a frog like that. I don't think it's gonna be the last time. I would also like to say that the absence of representatives of the Ministry of Justice here today demonstrates the relationship between law and justice and parliamentarians in general. Given what's been going on lately, the debates in the Polish Parliament are so narrowed down... We thought there was some relative normality here in the Senate. That ministers come here and answer questions. Turns out it's over. For the first time such disregard comes to us from the Ministry of Justice, from ministers who should have special regard for such regulations as, for example, It works in the Senate, and they should respect it. They should also respect their colleagues in Law and Justice, let alone the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, this is such a humiliating situation for us... I'm surprised we're okay with this. I'm surprised that this is acceptable to the Senate because this is how we prove here that this Senate isn't necessary for anything. Just now one of my fellow senators said that working in the Senate is practically the fourth Seym reading. Then what's the Senate for? I'd like to strongly protest. I would like to say that, of course, I am in favour of rejecting this law. I believe that what is happening at the moment is a huge scandal, that is, we are going to proceed and tomorrow we will probably pass a law that we already know is bad and will have to be changed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u315	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have said... I also have the impression that in some time we will have another edition of the amendment of the law on the system of common courts and the law on the Supreme Court. But I'm gonna focus today... I am not going to talk, unfortunately, about the embarrassing behaviour of government representatives who, I think, after the last statement from the representatives of the European Union, do not want to come to the Senate, or maybe they just don't want to come to the Senate at all. Because they don't have to. I'll focus mainly on the Supreme Court Act. I do not hide the fact that I was inspired to do so by the information from the last meeting of the National Judicial Council, during which Mrs Pawłowicz stated, among other things, that it is necessary to clean the website of the council from materials placed there by Judge Żurek, an earlier press secretary. Of course, everyone supported it. Well, we have no right to question that. And before that, in such a humorous way, Mr. Deputy Chief of the current KRS, Judge Wiesław Johann, told Judge Zurek's successor to clean the chair well after Judge Zurek... That's how he takes care of the judge's authority. The judge also stated that he had repeatedly pointed out that the press statements of Judge Żurek were eligible for review by the ethics committee and that the judge had been reprimanded, although the official position of the KRS was not in this case. And the judge continued to say that if the ethics committee thinks it's a disciplinary measure, it should pass it on to the disciplinary committee, and then there should be strict conclusions. Because he thinks it's a violation of judicial ethics. So is this what it's all about to trigger, so to speak, a freezing effect, and so that the next jury will be afraid to speak at and outside of courtrooms? An example here may be the situation of Judge Tulei, who we already know will have a disciplinary matter or that this disciplinary matter is already under way, who spoke at the hearing about the Stalinist methods used by CBA officers. The judge also proposed that the judges be held liable for the content of their judgments. Even though a little has been covered up so far and, if already, judges have been prosecuted so that it does not directly concern judgments, it has been taken very much care of, of course, in past times, and rightly so, also for other alleged judgments, such as. in the case of Judge Dominic Czeszkiewicz of Suwałk, who, I remind you, acquitted CODE activists and also has an ongoing disciplinary case, of course, for not questioning him immediately... or interrogating the child with a few days delay. It should also be added here that by accident the judge from this court met with the Vice Minister of Justice a few days earlier and was appointed President of the Court in Suwałki. Of course, it was an accident. I'm talking about it in this speech because it all sounds ominous, ladies and gentlemen. And there hasn't been an idea so far to prosecute disciplinaryly for the contents of the convictions. Unfortunately, it was only the judge I respected, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest, who came up with this idea. Unfortunately, there is also, and it is quite clear, disciplinary responsibility for judges who participated in the chains of lights in defence of the courts for speeches during the march of freedom. You already have the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Jerzy Stępień. The basis for punishment is the Ethics Code of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted by the Court under the leadership of Ms Julia Przyłębska and Mariusz Muszyński. Which is a political matter, of course, will judge the disciplinary court. So this is another whip on independent judges. Thus, the KRS adopted a resolution proposed by Judge Wiesław Johann and decided that the ethics committee should draw up rules specifying the responsibility of judges and assesons for public activities. The Commission is to assess what is a violation of the principle of apoliticity. Unfortunately, the ethics committee will provide guidelines to judge disciplinary courts, and it will also be possible to judge for statute of limitations and already validly judged actions, and will end this procedure with a newly adopted, emerging Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court. And the judges will be elected to her by the National Judicial Council. I'm talking about all of this so that you can think about whether you want judges who are afraid to give their reasons for their judgments in accordance with your conscience. I am talking about all this because the amendments to this law unfortunately concern only and only or mainly the conversion of the existing provision, that the law of all decisions is decided by the Minister of Justice, which is to apply now: that the President decides this at the request or after verification by the National Courts of Justice. [[Now it's not the Minister of Justice who decides. It's just...]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should really think hard and reject this law, which does nothing at all. She only sharpens the discipline of the judges. I'm talking about this first of all because now the National Judicial Council, which he was just talking about... The choice of candidates for her and then judges to the National Judicial Council, who have been chosen as if outside any mode, can be very, very serious. Even having confidence in the President... Well, that power is in one hand now. Because if the President's representative decides whether or not to make such proposals, then, ladies and gentlemen, we should really be afraid. And I'd like to conclude by saying that you're the judge. Johann is also part of this disciplinary commission. His request to hold sentences accountable has a great chance of breaking through, especially since Mrs Pawłowicz is also on the committee, and also judges: Rafał Puchalski, chairman of the committee We support the government of Beata Szydło, Mr. President and Mr. PiS. He was a member of this group. Jędrzej Kondek, submitted to the KRS by Marcin Romanowski, Director of the Institute of Justice, Ministry of Justice, Teresa Kurcyusz-Furmanik, Dagmar Pawełczyk-Woicka, submitted to the KRS by Dariusz Pawłyszcze, his partner and director of the Department of Human Resources and Organization in the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this committee is... I'm talking about this because we should get to the bottom of this, because it really poses a serious threat. And finally. The ethics committee will provide guidance on how disciplinary courts will be judged. The laws of the courts provide that judges can also be judged disciplinaryly for the statute of limitations and already validly judged. The new Disciplinary Board in the Supreme Court will culminate in disciplinary proceedings. The judges to this Disciplinary Chamber will also be elected by the National Courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the wheel is closing. If we had any further doubts, ladies and gentlemen, I am appealing to all of you, few already gathered: the red light should really light up. I therefore support Senator Pociej's request to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal request for an adjournment by 10 a.m. tomorrow and bringing government representatives here. This is another, and right now it's extreme, a situation where government, ministers ignore the Senate. There is no fourth reading here, as is often said in the Seym and in the government, this is a separate Chamber. Please take my motion as a formal conclusion, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u319	Good. [[Voice from the room: For discussion.]] Mr. Marshal... Senator Augustine? [[It's for discussion.]] Okay, but why don't we vote on the Marshal's motion first... [[There's no quorum.]] There's no quorum. Okay, this is Senator Augustine. [[Today we can't...]] Okay, senator. [[Voice from the room: We can't vote it out now...]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo...]] [[Well, no, sorry, I filed a formal motion.]] [[So we're voting?]] [[I don't know, I'm waiting for your marshal to react.]] Well, Senator Augustine said there's no quorum. Senator Augustine said he didn't have a quorum and signed up for the vote. But we can vote it out. [[That's not what the senator says.]] Okay, we can vote it out. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz insists... [[I'm not insisting. It's just your job, Mr. Marshal, it's your job.]] Who's in favour of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion to interrupt... [[Formal conclusion!]] [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]] [[But that's not what the senator says.]] Yes, please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u320	We're in a situation where we don't have a quorum... [[Yeah, that's what I wanted to say when I put it to the vote.]] ...so our vote... [[That can be said by the vote.]] [[But I wanted to say it through a vote.]] Then I'm pulling out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u321	Who's in favour of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion to end the debate by tomorrow? [[But the apparatus doesn't work.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It's not working. It's not working.]] It's working. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There was no quorum. [[Voting No 37]] [[But we won!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] There was no quorum. [[First time, Mr. Marshal, we won!]] You're welcome... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I ask Senator Augustine to speak. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Yes, please... [[I didn't lose my voice. It was my formal conclusion, but... there you go, Senator Augustine...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I used to look at that place, the government benches, when we were talking about the Supreme Court laws and the general courts. Then I saw the disrespectful, mocking faces, and then I heard these statements ignoring all the opinions that spoke about the unconstitutionality of these solutions and how they are dangerous for the independence of the Polish justice system and the independence of the judge. There's no one in these benches today because it's a moment of shame. The shame of double, the shame of substance, because you have to admit that what was so praised here is all that was so supported And today there are no Senators of Law and Justice who stood here and defended these solutions. You've got to change. And, ladies and gentlemen, this case must not be kept quiet. I look at some, and I see that there are some of those who have defended these solutions. It must be said strongly that these cosmetic changes do not remove the general reservations we have had. There's a joke that something is important because of point one, and if it's not important, see point one. And here we have a similar situation. It is true that the President is to appoint the assistants, but of course this decision will be dependent on the National Judicial Council, which you have just introduced Senator Sztark, who is dependent on the Minister of Justice. At that time we said, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr. Senator Pociej pointed out, which is: well, don't mock us, it offends a sound mind, it offends this House. I even spoke hard here, that the Minister of Justice, who, knowing about the essence of these solutions, lies, before the Senate of the Republic of Poland is deprived of the moral right to be responsible for the justice system, i.e. for obeying the law in Poland. But I said that this is a double shame, because we have also heard here words of disregard for the warnings of the European Commission and the Venice Commission. It was said that what we cared about there was that we didn't have to count on sovereignty, that getting out of our knees, that now we were alone, and so on. So what? So what? Today it turns out And even the designers do not cover it up, and the commentators, and the politicians of the governing group, so that it is to meet the calls of the European Commission, which demands the restoration of the rule of law in Poland, because the proceedings under Article are ongoing. 7. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are sitting not only without the representatives of the applicants, without the representatives of the Ministry, but with 100 percent certainty that we have one law breaking the rule of law to replace a law which, to a small extent, this rule of law tries to make a little powder, but to no extent restore it. We're sure we're about to change that bill. Why? Because the European Commission has already announced, by Commissioner Timmermans' mouth, when our committee was sitting, that these solutions are either wrong or insufficient. Knees can hurt from getting up like that, getting up like that, getting up like that, getting up all the time. We'll try to get up again in a minute. I just want to make you aware of the nonsense we're doing here. It's absurd in its pure form. That is why, of course, this law must be rejected if we are to keep at least a little decency, because it makes no sense to adopt these rules when we know that these are insufficient steps. That's why I call for it. It would be a small reason for the High House to behave decently. Because it's always worth being decent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I made a formal request to announce a break, to ask one of the ministers of justice, because they should be here. I also submitted it specifically to show the nonsense of interpretation of the rules that you apply. 'Cause you're gonna vote on my motion tomorrow after this point ends when there's a quorum. What's the point of that anyway? This is another situation. And I did it to show you what the interpretation of the rules looks like. My motion will be voted out after the end of this point. What if the majority of the House says yes? What point will ministers come to, ministers who have been here several times, explaining, justifying the change of judicial laws, including the one we are considering at the moment, about the Supreme Court? Where's Minister Ziobro? Where are the deputy ministers of Warchoł, Piebiak? I understand that Minister Jak has no time because he is currently engaged in an election campaign. I can understand that, but I have mentioned those ministers who have been here many times and have justified judicial laws, including the Supreme Court Act. I wonder why they're not here. I don't think... either they don't have the guts or they don't have the arguments. This is the third amendment of the Supreme Court Act since 3 April 2018. Third. And every time the representatives of the government, the parliamentary majority, as well as the lawyers here in this House, have argued and thought that everything is okay, that everything is on the right track. Now I'd like to hear someone vote for this bill. But now none of you sign up and justify why abroad is so important. You said abroad... the European Union is abroad. That means you don't listen to the opposition in the country, but you have to listen to the foreign one, right? [[On your knees.]] What are these... What's the situation you're putting yourselves in? What situation do you put Poland in? This is the third bill. It's gonna be four in a minute. [[Since April this year.]] Since April this year. Since April 3rd this year. It'll probably be 4:00 in a minute, then 5:00... So? Are we going to vote? I think you're gonna vote. I have no doubt about that. I would like to point out that, of course, this is a step in the right direction. I mean, half a step. It's not even a whole step. After all, the main point is that you remove judges by lowering the retirement age of the Supreme Court judges from 70 to 65 years old. Of course, you've equalized this... age has been equalized, but that's not what this was all about. The point was, you're eliminating a large part of the Supreme Court judges. And not only from the Supreme Court, but also from the universal courts. You don't eliminate breaking the rules, you don't back off... Not the Rules of Procedure, but the Constitution; breaking the Rules of Procedure is that we will vote on my formal proposal when this point has passed. But you broke the constitution by cutting the term of office of the Supreme Court from six to four. Up to four years, 1/3. And you don't back down from that, although that's the most important thing. But I'll also show you there's a gate. There's a gate here. I mean, the gate, which means that the president can basically do anything if he makes an appointment with the National Courts and the National Courts are in the same hands, in the hands of the same group, the same political party from which the President comes. Well, then it's all possible. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, anything is possible. §3: the President may authorise the further appointment of a judge within 3 months from the date of receipt of the opinion of the National Judicial Council or the expiry of the time limit for transmission of that opinion. It means that if the deadline expires, it may also give its consent if the National Court of Justice fails to deliver an opinion. What's next? There is still an even more interesting paragraph, added at this moment in this act. In the event that the proceedings relating to the further occupation of a Judge of the Supreme Court are not completed after the age referred to in paragraph 1, the Judge shall remain in office until such time as the proceedings are terminated. And there's no deadline here. So the judge can be held. You can either extend it, even after it's 65 years old, or you can't extend it. And that will be the case, and I would like to draw your attention to that, including the president of the Supreme Court. [[Even if he doesn't file a motion...]] Is that a lock lock? Of course it's a lock. Does this bill stick to any standards? No. Everything depends on political will. And that's what I'm paying your attention to. I think it's a pick that shows up: there's a rule that makes it possible for the Supreme Court to act as a judge who is over 65 years of age. But this provision is kind of based on the President's will and the agreement of the President's representative at the National Judicial Council with this council. Are we positive or negative? I think it's negative. Such decisions cannot depend on political will. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing, Senator Pociej. The discussion is closed. Is the representative... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Is the government representative...]] [[It's a habit, Mr. Marshal.]] [[You have to read well...]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Senator Secretary will read the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u326	Meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Personal Data Protection Act and to the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws will take place on 16 May at 9 a.m. in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the Act on the Promotion of New Investments will take place on 16 May at 8.15 p.m. in room 176. Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the review of the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws, as well as amending the Act amending the Law on Social Insurance Money Benefits in the event of sickness and maternity and certain other laws will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room No 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-05-15-senat-60-4.u327	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 04]]
