ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Adam Andruszkiewicz, Marcin Duszek, Marta Kubiak and Krzysztof Kubow to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Marta Kubiak will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Adam Andruszkiewicz and Marcin Duszek. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 9, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Legal notice - hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Missionary Works and the Polish Ministry - hour. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Tourism - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 13, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Marine Wind Energy - hour 15. I inform you that on the eve of the first celebration of the National Day of Remembrance of Poles saving Jews under German occupation on the next Friday, i.e. 23 March this year, at 3 p.m. 18 in the church of St. St. The Holy Mass will be celebrated in Warsaw. in the intention of Henryk Sławicz, especially worthy of saving Jews from destruction, awarded the title of Righteous Among the Nations and awarded the Order of the White Eagle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u3	Thank you very much. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 19th agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I ask you to ask a member of the club the Law and Justice of Mr.Peter Kaleta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of problems with maintaining adequate air quality in the country, for which the emissions of pollutants from the social and communal sectors are largely responsible, so in short, also single-family buildings, single-family farms, please inform about the impact of fuels of poor quality on the environment, as well as the activities of the Ministry of Environment to raise awareness of the public in this regard. I think it is necessary to ask this further, to clarify this, because recently we have been informed that in the Polish trade there was a fire of not necessarily good quality, not necessarily fulfilling the Polish parameters. I just wanted to ask you about the parameters that they are. Does the government have such an assumption, an idea to control the fuel depot? Because it is clear that individual customers do not know whether the fuel complies with standards or parameters. They simply use fuel in good faith, which may not necessarily be of good quality. Therefore, I have a question for the government or such a proposal... Are such solutions also taken into account? Will such possible checks be carried out in fuel storage and, if so, at what time can this be expected? After all, it must be remembered that at the moment we are at the most obvious moment when individual farms consume the most fuel. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Mazurek corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Poland, the dominant reason, as the Member also said, for inadequate air quality can be found in the social and communal sector. This applies in particular to the exceedance of PM10, PM2,5, as well as to the level of the target benzopyrene, as well as in a few cases the level of acceptable nitrogen dioxide. These pollutants adversely affect human health, the environment. This state of affairs is diagnosed. This state of affairs is often responsible for burning poor fuel quality in old, exploited heat sources. This is the burning of coal fuels of poor quality when it comes to coal mules, fleet concentrates, i.e. all that is burned at the wrong temperature in domestic or domestic heating furnaces. This is due to economic reasons, from what we have identified as energy poverty, but often also from the incomplete awareness of the health effects of burning this type of substance. It is very often that it was such, you can say, an agreement to conduct a specific economy of the closed circuit to divide waste into flammable and non-combustible, and very often just waste, furniture, chips were thrown into the fireplaces. Sadly, because of poverty, some people also use it. With regard to what the Minister of the Environment is doing in this area, here we are undertaking educational activities, which are also the result of the National Air Protection Programme, whose perspective is up to 2030. And on the basis of these actions, we are taking concrete steps. In order to help and clarify issues related to the fact that there must be a good quality fuel in a good boiler, we have developed a pure heat informant in my home with solid fuels. The informant contains information not only about fuel, about available fuels, but also about how to heat more efficiently, how to heat buildings, what it means to heat energy, how to warm the house, where to get the money to just make it as efficient as possible. Of course, it also helps to increase knowledge about situations in which it does not even sunbathe with coal, but something like carbon. In answer to the Member's question, the Trade Inspection, because this concerns the sphere of trade, it will certainly work in this area to ensure that such practices, which in fact in one of the programmes after hours, are carried out. 20.15 were shown where it was not even coal, right, some form of quasi-asphalt origin was simply burned. I'm sure that's where we'll work. Besides, we are also working on preparing a methodology for what is being burned, so as to improve the quality of control, and then to facilitate the possibility of testing these samples, so that here in this field also... And that's what the Environment Minister is working on. An informer, a guide to clean heat in my home with solid fuels is also available in the form of a smaller leaflet so that it can be distributed better, and is also downloadable of course from websites in electronic form, so that it can reach the widest possible range of people. In 2017, the Institute of Environmental Protection, the National Research Institute, supervised by the Minister of Environment, carried out a nationwide project called "Smog stop" and, in turn, the chief environmental inspector conducts educational activities through the air quality portal. On the air side. gios.gov.pl. you can check the air condition. I was checking when we were waiting here to reopen. There's a good state in Zamość today. So you can go to the air side. gios.gov.pl and check the monitoring station in the city, and thus also check what the air condition in our city is, in a simple, accessible way. As I said, the issue of energy poverty has been diagnosed and it is also the result of our actions and cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. In December 2017 we prepared a collective information material for social workers of urban social assistance centres. This material was transferred through the social policy departments in the voivodship offices to be used in municipalities to carry out information activities in the framework of social work by social workers employed in the ILOS since 2018. This material uses the information contained in the publication of the Minister of the Environment, which I presented to you. Of course, we continue to work together in this area. From this speaker there was a commitment that this is a civilization challenge, and we will certainly be determined to improve air quality in Poland, because this is the quality of life of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u7	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the government is spending huge amounts of money on air protection, I would like to ask about the programme of thermomodernisation of individual farms, as well as the programme for the exchange of heating boilers on individual farms. How is this programme implemented? What are the resources devoted to this? And how can individual farms benefit from this scheme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u9	Thank you very much. Once again, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment... Oh, and Mr Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u10	Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you two more questions. Does the government envisage developing chimney filter technology in residential buildings? And does the government provide assistance in installing these filters for individuals [[♪ The bell ♪]] households? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Mazurek corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to activities related to what the entire government, but also the Minister of the Environment, is implementing in the framework of improving air quality, this has been clearly identified and the national environmental fund has been allocated to improve the quality of boilers until 2023 from this pool of funds, which will also be devoted to deep thermomodernization, to improve the quality of boilers will spend PLN 25 billion. That's a lot of money. Of course, there are a number of different actions. We have talked here about individual heat sources, heating, but it is a series of actions that need to be taken. This is very important. There is a big problem with low emissions, but we also need to look at air quality in a holistic way. That is why this amount shows all the actions we are going to take. When we enter the cities where we have an extensive heating network... The expansion of this network is also a very important action to improve air quality. Very often in the mornings, rush hours, when cars enter cities, air quality falls dramatically and it is also worth strengthening all these tools related to improving the state of collective transport, with the promotion of electromobility. This is an important, important priority of the government in improving the quality of life of Poles, improving the quality of life of residents and the quality of the environment. A major element will also be the deep thermomodernisation, the replacement of boilers, special simplified audits, so as to exploit the economies of scale of the measures that we have just from the national environmental fund. I'm sure we'll use them. As for filter technology in individual homes, the source needs to be improved in the first place in order to have the best possible quality, as well as to smoke properly, to use the laws of physics and to smoke properly, from the top. These are also important elements that are not always known. We will certainly work in this area. What can I say about this type of pollution reduction? In the first place - the source, and secondly, of course, we will be looking, looking around when it comes to innovation. Hence, pilot schemes that have such innovations to use to make all that is possible in this area actually effective and effective, as well as to ensure that this great priority, the fight for air quality, does not cause us to spend money badly. Money must be spent very well and efficiently, because the problem is very important, and the challenge we face is a civilization challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u13	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u14	I thought you were gonna tell the marshal. This is a question about the vetting of voluntary fire department units.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u15	Yes, sir. And the question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, Joann Frydrych and Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u16	A question to the Minister about the vetting of volunteer fire department units. I ask as a Member of the Republic of Poland, as vice-president of the parliamentary fire team and as a member of the voluntary fire brigade: Why have you recently conducted such a mirror? A lot of concern is raised by the self-certification of the assets of the TSOs throughout the country. This particular illustration consists in the taking of photographs of equipment, equipment and individual premises in voluntary fire department units, including toilets, by State Fire Department officers. The voluntary firefighters and local government officials have not been informed of the legal basis for the vetting and consider it to be an entry into the sovereignty of non-governmental organisations of particular importance. Recent meetings or reporting meetings in this area It is also a collaboration, but also a source of knowledge for the State Fire Department about the state of the units. Mirror in volunteer firefighters in this way is a scandal. So I wanted to ask you what is the legal basis for the vetting of volunteer fire department units run by State Fire Department officers. Why aren't they saying what's the basis for doing their job in CSR units? What is the purpose of this action? Why have not the management board of the units been informed about the mirroring of the units of the TSO or the local authorities been informed? You say so easily that the function of CSR units is important. You appreciate them when there are disasters, when they help and they first arrive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] events, and today you couldn't tell them what you were doing in those units and why you were mirroring them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! First of all, she mentioned her important functions, which should give you knowledge and experience, and this knowledge and experience should exclude the kind of wording that you use. In particular, two words are completely inappropriate. Firstly, this is not an illustration, as I am about to say, and this is a term explicitly invoked for political use by the Member, and secondly, it is not a scandal, it is a normal procedure that has been in place for many years. You're asking about the legal basis. The legal basis is the order of the chief of state fire department. In this case, This is the latest, up-to-date order: Order No. 10 of the Chief of the State Fire Service of 29 December 2017 on the matter, please listen to the title, carry out inspections - so it is not a mirror, and inspection - the operational readiness of the entities of the national fire-fighting system. This order was issued on the basis of the statutory authorisation contained directly in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Act on the State Fire Service, which empowers the Chief Commandant to determine, by way of order, how to carry out inspections of the operational readiness of entities of the national rescue and fire-fighting system. This is the legal basis, which is not new, because the last order which was repealed to those whom I quoted came from the times of your governments, from 2013 and exactly 26 June 2013, and it was the same order of title in the same case. It's lost power. Following the amendment of the Order of 29 December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] Earlier, in 2011, and this was also the time of your governments, there were guidelines which, as if they were replacing this order - the guidelines of the Chief of State Fire Department on the same matter, i.e. on how to carry out inspections of the operational readiness of volunteer firefighters of the national fire-fighting system. So, Commissioner, there is no illustration, but an inspection, nothing new, and only what has been done over the past years, right and necessary - I will prove it in a moment - and of course no scandal, just a normal procedure. A statutory legal basis has been invoked, precisely the one from the implementing provision issued under this law by the Chief Commandant. Remember, honourable Member, you must know very well that the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service is responsible for the efficiency and consistency of the national emergency and fire-fighting system in Poland. He is also the head of civil protection of the country at the same time. His shoulders have a great responsibility. He must prepare this system for action in situations where this system must respond, and such situations due to various threats are very many. Let us add to this of course - that the state and voluntary fire department are probably today the most multifunctional rescue and fire formations, probably in general the most multifunctional uniform formations that exist. They have a very diverse range of tasks. Let's add that only 25% of firefighters have been active lately, and on average 75% on a national scale. responds to other local threats. This photographic documentation, which you are asking for, is only one of the elements of the documentation that comes from the inspection. The inspection shall cover a number of important elements, including the method of alerting and its effectiveness. I'm going to quote some of the provisions of this order. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11, 12 and 13 of this arrangement, which I have invoked, is defined. For example, during these inspections, the issue of alerting is being investigated, including the time available for rescue forces from the place of stationed, of course, to the site of the incident, the readiness of rescuers, the readiness of vehicles, motor equipment and rescue equipment - I quote in a nutshell, because I do not have time - the correctness of the individual's records, the preparation of professional rescuers. And as a result of this inspection, a protocol is created. One of the attachments to this protocol is photographic documentation, photos just... [[The bathroom.]] ...which are one of the elements just documenting the state of preparation of a given unit for rescue and fire-fighting operations. And here's the basic thing. Please bear in mind that when you ask these questions, the Chief Commissioner of the State Fire Service, first of all, decides to include a given unit of the TSO in the national emergency and fire-fighting system, so he needs to check whether it meets the criteria, whether it meets the requirements, if it is applied for, and also has to assess on an ongoing basis whether those units that are included still meet the requirements, as it may be expected that it will count on them by having the resources, means for the rescue and fire-fighting activities of the individual concerned, and that this potential has been reduced. So he has to keep it up to date. Second, the Chief Commandant of the State Fire Service grants grants both to the national units of the rescue and fire-fighting system and to the units of the TSOs outside the system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The amount of these grants is increasing each time, with each year of the rule of law and justice. That's what I'm trying to say, by the way. [['Cause that's the kind of adjustments I made.]] It should also be noted by the Member, but I will not see that coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Third, ladies and gentlemen, this is The main commandant is also driven by the need for rescue and humanitarian action, for example. they must know what they have, what they can be expected to do if humanitarian aid is needed. That's all I had to say. Of course, there are a whole range of other elements that justify these actions. Finally, honourable Member - there will probably be additional questions - please don't get emotional with these photographs. This is a natural thing, this is one of the elements of the documentation, which is part of the post-inspective protocol. What's so weird about that? And as far as I'm concerned... [[Bathrooms.]] That is not enough, this title of order, both from your time and the one repeated now, entitles you to unannounced inspections to check the state of readiness at a given time, the state of preparation of the individual. But in general these inspections are announced, they are agreed with the management board of the TSOs. As to whether local authorities should be informed about this - they may, but do not have to. Of course, there is no secret, but there is also no legal requirement for local authorities to be informed about it. The CSR units are independent, autonomous associations, so if the inspection is dated with the CSR board, then I think that any procedural requirements, even excessive, I would say, because it may also be unannounced, are completely exhausted. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The additional question is now asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I just wanted to straighten things out here because the inspection is about all the volunteer fire department units, not, like you said, the ones that are in the national fire escape system. I have an extra question. The Chief Commandant of the State Fire Department is in possession of an SWD application, i.e. a decision support system, and there are hardware data. In addition, all units shall review once a year. As the Minister himself said, photographic documentation is meant to be used for evaluation and can prove the purpose of any grants. I hope that in this case, if the commander finds that a fire truck has, for example, a fire engine. over 40 years old, it will replace such equipment, also in a unit that is not in the fire protection system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a request to answer that question. And one more thing. If the Chief doesn't trust his subordinates...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u21	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. [[But the minister could have been two minutes longer.]] The Minister is the Minister. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński. [[Mr. Marshal, you underestimate Members, and that's not what you're here for.]] [[Voice from the room: Not from today.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[It is scandalous, Marshal, that you disregard Members. You give the Minister 2 minutes, and you do not allow him to finish his questions. Therefore, the Member will continue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u23	Allow me, sir, because I have one more question, and I just want to dispel the doubts of the voluntary fire department. Volunteer firefighters are concerned about the fact that this documentation is not needed to assess the conditions prior to being placed in voluntary firefighters' premises, i.e. the so-called. Firefighters' regiments, the Territorial Defence Forces, because you can presume that by depriving the Association of Voluntary Firefighters of money, the government may be guided by the extinction of voluntary firefighters. If that's not the case, say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u24	Thank you. Minister, I am subtracting from you the half-minutes you have left your Member. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u25	That's what you're gonna do when the marshal tells you to. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Well, the last question can only be answered by laughter or laughter, but if you want an answer to the protocol, please: no, these inspection activities will not serve any of the types of cases you suspect us of related to the needs of the Territorial Defence Army. On the other hand, back to the beginning of your speeches and questions, I would like to say that, yes, individuals not included in the national rescue and fire-fighting system may also be subject to these inspection activities, but it is because some of them are seeking to be included in the national rescue and fire-fighting system. In addition, they also receive grants from the Chief Commandant - not only from the national rescue and fire-fighting system, but also from outside the system - and these grants are not small at all, given the scale of the state budget and the size of the funds that are allocated to these units globally each year. Not much, they play a very important role. We have always stressed this from the beginning - I said it in times of opposition and I say it now, when I am responsible on behalf of the government for overseeing this sphere of activity - that the units of TSOs not included in the national system are just as important as those included. They have a slightly different location, a little different tasks, they have different rules, but they are very important when it comes to rescue-sailing activities. They're often the first ones on the scene because they're in places close to those events, aren't they? So that they need to be supported as well. We support them with grants. You asked about the fire escape cars. Of course, we will buy them for CSR units from the national system - we are buying them, we can trace how many of these cars have already been bought, but we will buy more and more of them - for KSRG units and for those outside KSRG. This is due, for example, to the fact that we have included units from outside the national rescue and fire protection system into the modernization bill. It is planned to purchase about 500 new cars for CSR units within the scope of the modernisation programme of uniform services, including CSR as a service or voluntary non-state entity, but very important, right? So that we also amplify them with hardware. Also withdrawn from the State Fire Department still good, very efficient cars are transferred to the CSR units and those from the national system, and those from outside the national system. So that we care about them, we care about them, we increase subsidies and we will continue to do so. 501 million PLN is allocated within the framework of this 9200 million PLN from the program of modernization of uniformed services for 4 years... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...and so the CSR units are noticed, supplemented, reinforced and valued. And I thank all the volunteer firefighters for their sacrifice. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Minister, earlier in 2011 also three times increased resources for voluntary firefighters. It's worth remembering, too.]] The next question is... [[It's just the arrogance that you're not showing what's the basis in these units... that's the main purpose of this question, and you haven't solved it.]] ...Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party. The question concerns the dramatic situation of the veterinary inspection staff. Madam President, I have not given you the floor. I'm not gonna exercise my disciplinary powers this time. [[Thank you for being so kind, Marshal.]] You're welcome. Mr Jan Łopata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The situation in the Polish countryside and in Polish agriculture is tragic. It is difficult to find such a branch of production, such a specialization which could be described as cost-effective, and those areas of production which are still managing in this difficult competitive market, you are destroying the state - here I am addressing government representatives - with my decisions. I am thinking, above all, of the decision to murder the entire production industry of fur animals or breeding Arabian horses. You also destroy them with no decision, no indolence in other areas of agriculture. Minister! It is spreading in Poland at an alarming rate of very treacherous disease, which is ASF. Here, instant decisions are needed, not sham actions. In the dramatic letter of open staff of the Veterinary Inspection, questions are asked whether we can afford to lose 18 billion zlotys worth of pork in our country, or whether we can afford to lose export rights, whether we want to deprive Polish raw material, access to Polish pork meat, which quality exceeds that from abroad. And this is written by professionals, conscious and responsible people, whose number is decreasing every month, and wages make them unemployable. There's 600 vacancies today. Minister! This is the first line, speaking military. At least that's the way it's supposed to be. If there, i.e. in the Veterinary Inspection, is so dramatic, by what means, with whom do you want to ensure food security in Poland? This is basic security and a contribution to safety in general. You put more responsibilities on these people, on this structure, just bio-insurance control. But did you ask yourselves who would do this? With this employment, as they write in this letter, the control during these bioinsurances will take 4 and 5 years. This is a joke. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "What will be the reaction to this dramatic letter opened by the Veterinary Inspection?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u28	Thank you very much. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Fellas asking questions! Everything appeared, practically speaking, from scaring, as usual, the Polish village - this is what you have been doing for 2 years - that the Polish village dies after the rule of law and justice. You're scaring the horses. I encourage you to read the article: success of Arabian horses from Michałów. Three days ago... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let me finish. Recently, three prizes - cash prizes, about 600,000. Dollars. That is also something you need to know, Mr President, when you say such things in public. As far as fur animals are concerned, as you know, the bill is not yet being processed in the Seym, so don't scare me either. We'll discuss it. Turning to the situation of the Polish veterinarian, I think that gentlemen, especially gentlemen from PSL, should try to answer this question yourself, because the condition we found in the Polish veterinarian 2 years ago was quite ago. And you know it. You are also experienced parliamentarians, and you know very well that this system, which actually works - if I remember correctly when I was a voivode, there have been administrative changes - since 1999, or since 2000, the veterinary inspection system is just bad. And you're well aware of that. But of course no one had the courage to touch it, because it is so-called. State inspection and so-called Private inspection. If in the state inspection there is a fuss and lack of funds for good remuneration, then in the so-called. These people are doing quite well with their private inspection when it comes to wages. I don't envy them. Just surveillance, or actually, I took care of the vet, basically, a week and a half ago. It's not a translation, I'm not translating from it, under any circumstances. I just want to say right away that I'm after talking to veterinary services, and we have a way of trying to change the bad system that works -- I'm not judging work, I'm just assessing the payback system for these people for hard work. We're gonna try to change this system. Of course, perhaps after my speech, there may be some concern in these services again, which we will come up with. What we're gonna come up with, we're gonna show the veterinary services, and we're gonna discuss it with them. Going to details now, I would like to remind you one thing: from 1 April about PLN 4 million will be increased budget for veterinary services in five voivodships. Today we are talking about five: Lubuskie, Mazowieckie, Podlaskie, Warmia-Mazurskie and Podkarpackie. You know why - it's just there's a threat and there's ASF. These services need to be strengthened there. About 54 jobs will be started. The money is for about 54 jobs to run when it comes to the amount I exchanged. I would also like to remind colleagues asking this question: according to the 2016 budget law, there has been an increase in current expenditure in the voivodship veterinary inspectors by almost 7300 thousand, in the county inspectors by an amount of 18 783 thousand. in relation to the expenditure planned for this purpose in the 2015 Budget Act, which is the law that you have adopted. I'm showing here a significant difference in what it is, realizing that it's not enough right now. But everything is ahead of us and, as I said, these actions will be taken. We will consistently try to ensure that these services... That's about 11,000. people, I'm talking about all employees, not just veterinarians, about 11,000. people work in veterinary service, including, of course, doctors - doctors appointed to do their work in establishments, and above all, those doctors who do this hard work in the field, doctors to the county. Here we must make radical changes. And if I was authorized to answer that question... You're asking the Prime Minister if he's even interested. Yeah, I'm interested. It is recommended that, practically speaking, given what is happening with ASF in Poland, we make every effort that would lead to the situation that this work will not be a slave work, but a job that simply consists in providing services to Polish breeders. If you are also talking about the lack of help for farmers or breeders in the Polish countryside, then this help is. The regulation of Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, which entered into force on 28 February, shows how assistance will be provided to those who will stop production - I am talking about the flock of pigs - or because of a lack of response to the use of bioinsurance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] they will not perform these activities and they will have to stop production. At least up to 3 years such aid will be granted to these farmers. If you want, in the second part, I'll give you the answers in detail, I'll say...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: ... about specific amounts. Thank you. Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u31	Minister! We can, of course, differ in the assessment of the current situation in Polish agriculture - as far as the political side is concerned, such a difference is justified - but please pay attention to what farmers who come to the meetings of the agricultural committee say. Among other things, yesterday they were referring to those issues that you were just talking about, so compensation, the principles of bioinsurance. The assessment is unambiguous. These actions are either late or ineffective, or too few resources have been committed. And most importantly, yesterday, this voice came from the veterinary community as confirmation of this open letter, which was addressed. Of course, you are talking about the actions you have taken since you took responsibility for this sector or for this inspection, but in this term of office, we have already taken changes to the veterinary inspection regulations, because Minister Jurgel is one of the responsible for spreading ASF accused him, pointed out the veterinarians. The result is no, and the examples of your new leadership in staff policy are: 106 calls, and only 29 calls have been successful, and there have been such cases, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the chosen have resigned from taking up a job. So what are you gonna do, Minister, if the open letter that was sent doesn't satisfy the Veterinary Inspection and they're gonna do other things...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u32	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u33	...which self-government has in its scope? If he's fought back then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u34	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u35	... African swine fever, which you still can't handle today?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u36	Mr Zbigniew Babalski again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! As an experienced parliamentarians, you know very well what authority the Minister of Agriculture has over veterinary services and what budgetary impact it has on voivodship and county inspectors. Well, technically, none at all. He can ask and ask his fellow Minister for Administration to simply talk to the voivods to recalculate what amounts are needed to correct this situation. I would therefore like to inform you, sir, that the Minister for Agriculture has requested the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration to oblige the voivodships to include expenditure in the various parts of the budgets of the voivodships to increase salaries for 2019. I inform you to satisfy your curiosity that we calculated that this should be the amount of approx. 46 million PLN, which would translate into about 400 PLN per job in voivodships and 600 PLN in voivodships. We have already taken this initiative, my fellow Member, and I think that we will consistently strive to do so - with, of course, cooperation with the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and consequently with the positive decision of the Prime Minister - that these budgets will be increased in 2019 and will calm this unpleasant atmosphere. I have been in the Sejm for 12 years, and I remember the discussions during the meetings of our committees when colleagues from the Civic Platform or colleagues from the PSL were chairman of these committees. I remember what positions were taken by the veterinary service, so it's nothing new. Only today I am speaking from this tribune: I will simply try to change this system so that it works differently so that this money is more fairly shared when it comes to veterinary services. I said things about next year. Finally, Mr President, I will say once again: you spoke about the dramatic situation in the orchards - it was dramatic - about the decline in production, but you did not talk about it, and then everyone wrote about what really is the situation when it comes to Polish sadists. As a result, let's say, these dramatic situations, frosts, etc. Sadists from 2017, and you are an experienced orcharder, they left with a big plus. So it was scaring. There was also fearing from this platform that the Polish village fell and nothing good could happen there. I assure you, the Polish village is well. That doesn't mean there's no problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They are, but we'll do everything we can to solve these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u38	Thank you, Minister. Ms Anna Czech and Ms Ewa Tomaszewska will ask another question on the planned launch of the pilot programme for the organisation of psychiatric care. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Czech, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in connection with the long-standing discussion on changes in psychiatric care, I would like to ask you a few questions. Firstly, in view of the anticipated launch of pilotage in the organisation of psychiatric care in July of this year, is the deadline for preparing the regulations and regulations of the NFZ designated for May not too late, given the need to change the structures of the entities? Secondly, will the lump sum to finance mental health centres cover the next stage of increases for nurses and doctors? Thirdly, by what date will individual pilots receive information on the structure of the pilot population? Fourthly, whether the financing of benefits within mental health centres will be sufficient, taking into account the operating costs and the need to bear additional costs which are currently not included in the mix of benefits, e.g. with the operation of the emergency room, the point of notification and coordination, the extension of the working time of the outpatients and - another point - contracts with subcontractors? Fifthly, what action will be taken against those who do not enter the pilotage, and in the psychiatry of these units there are 90% ? Could not be used e.g. Solving the common budget for these units, if they meet the requirement of comprehensive benefits for the patient? By what date will the National Health Fund departments conduct competition proceedings, in particular that, in the light of the published basket regulation, comments can be submitted by 11 April? When you'll be able to expect [[♪ The bell ♪]] the publication of this regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Józef Król corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for the task of these questions, because we have been struggling with the psychiatry and problem of this level of organisation for many years since the entry into force of the Mental Health Act, 1994, which has identified mental health centres as the elements that we should create. Last year a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers was signed in March to continue the National Mental Health Programme. This was just after the Supreme Audit Chamber presented a critical assessment of the previous edition of this Regulation. And from that point on, which is March Ub. r., until now, we were preparing grounds for restructuring psychiatry. One of these elements is the piloting on which a few questions have been asked. The first question was whether individuals had to prepare for the implementation of the pilot structure in such a way that these centres actually function. They have to get ready. Firstly, the place of this mental health centre planned to be tested in the near future must be indicated in such circumstances, when all the levels of psychiatric care are implemented, i.e. both the individual who lodges and all the other units in the area concerned should be, so to speak, linked to the functioning. The idea is that as many individuals as possible - preferably all - performing fixed-term care services, day care services, guidance services, as well as environmental services - should be linked within this structure. However, we do not foresee major organisational changes at this stage or at this first stage of piloting, i.e. only in places where, for example, the environmental care dimension is relatively small compared to hospital care. The aim and idea of this pilotage is deinstitutionalization, i.e. the departure from the asylum psychiatric model, which so far dominates in Poland, towards the kind of care that gives opportunities. And there are proven solutions in Germany, Italy, other European countries showing that enhanced environmental care will allow those with specific mental, mental disorders to return to normal functioning in society, to learning, to work or to social functioning. As regards the lump sum that is calculated, the increase in increases has also been taken into account. The increases resulting from the regulation, from the agreement between the Minister of Health, the President of the National Health Fund and the General Council of Nurses and Obstetrics and the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics of September 2015, are, first, included in this amount. As far as the amount of these increases is concerned, we already have a third tranche, i.e. from 1 September it is 1,200 PLN and from 1 September 2018 it will be 1,600 PLN. This is not enough in the Regulation on the general terms and conditions of contracts in order to maintain the effects of the increase in the salary of nurses and midwives, i.e. this PLN 4 x 400 implemented since 2015, the rules on the fixing of the correction coefficient by which measures will be set for the average monthly salary increase of nurses and midwives from 1 September 2019. As regards the other professional groups, any agreement will also be implemented as part of the piloting process. As regards the question of the date when participants will receive, first, the participants volunteered. The first public announcement was announced in July Ub. r. More than 150 entities have submitted an access, an application for this piloting. After verification of all applications, approximately 30, 40 entities were selected at the moment, which are initially indicated as the ones in which the piloting will take place. We do not create barriers, we do not impose artificial legal requirements. We want this piloting to take place in places where it really is needed and to succeed. Will the financing of mental health benefits be sufficient? Well, according to our calculations, the base amount, which is going to be a global budget, is now about 20%. higher than the costs - to the amounts - which were borne in 2017, which is the minimum we are currently adopting, while the final amount will be indicated when we know which units will start piloting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as the non-pilot facilities are concerned, this is where the status quo is planned to be maintained, while the increase in benefits tariffling will take place from - we hope - 1 July.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u42	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For patients not covered by this programme, as about 90% I wanted to ask what their situation would be like. In any way will they be able to benefit from the results of the piloting? Will she deserve them, for example. comprehensive care, which would give them a chance to better protect their health, a better chance to benefit from medical services than at the moment, because we see such a need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Józef Król again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u45	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you again, Member. Pilotage is a certain element of the whole arrangement of the new psychiatric care system in Poland. It actually applies, as we estimate about 10% the population covered by this care, the population that would be able to take advantage of this pilotage, while the rest of the citizens - and not all of us - have a diagnosis of whether or not we feel that we are suffering from this disease - will remain in the structure to date. On the other hand, there has been a trend for at least a year, and it is increasingly clear to increase funding for environmental care. The NFZ allocates a dozen, several dozen percent more in the budget for care held close to the sick person. As for the comprehensiveness of care is piloting, whether this attempt we want to undertake changes in the way we finance this level of care, we move away from the model of financing per person day, on a specific service, on a specific advice, we want to finance the potential that we have in a given place, so that as many of these benefits can be realized, firstly, and secondly, to implement them as close as possible to the place where we live, study and stay sick. The second element is that we want contact points to be in these pilot places not only providing information but also recording patients if this is the case during the period of mental crisis. We also want to provide as much social protection as possible within these pilots, one which is implemented by various kinds of foundations at the moment, for example. by repair assistants, etc. These elements will be included in the pilotage, and if only the first analytical period, and we want to have a comprehensive analysis after six months, it will be positive enough to expand it, we will expand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u46	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the dissolution of the investigative team investigating the car accident of 10 February 2017 in Oświęcim, which affected Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The question is asked by Zbigniew Konwiński and Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u47	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! According to media reports, the regional prosecutor in Cracow positively considered the application of the District Prosecutor's Office in Cracow by Mr Rafał Babiński to terminate the team and take over the investigation. According to the press findings, the members of the investigation team intended to examine the credibility of the statements of the Government Protection Office officers, who, contrary to the witnesses of the incident, confirmed in agreement that the column involved in this case was moving with sound signals on. Prosecutor Rafał Babiński's superior team of prosecutors investigating the case refused to carry out the above evidence. The prosecutors denied the idea of conducting an investigation in the direction of acknowledging the sole fault of the vehicle's Fiat Seicinto Sebastian K. In the light of the information published by the journalists in the journal, the public prosecutors of the investigative team dealing with the case pursuant to Article. 7 of the Law of 28 January 2016. The Law on the Prosecutor's Office has applied for exclusion from the investigation. The requests were not considered due to the termination of the investigative team by the regional prosecutor in Krakow. The case described in this proposal raises serious doubts as to the impartiality of the investigation and the legality of the resolution of the investigation team investigating the car accident of 10 February 2017 in Oświęcim, which affected Prime Minister Beata Szydło. I therefore request that you answer the following questions. Why was the investigative team involved in the car accident investigation of 10 February 2017 in Oświęcim affected by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and, in the light of the above doubts, are you able to provide public opinion - this was a question to the Prime Minister, but I understand you represent the government - that the investigation conducted by the prosecutor general's office led by the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra on the causes of the road accident involving Prime Minister Beata Szydło was not deprived of the advantage of impartiality and independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sierak will answer this question under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome. And before the prosecutor starts, I'll say hello to the IIh class from their high school. Clementina Hoffmanowa in Warsaw. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u49	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, As regards the first question, the reasons why the investigation team involved in the accident investigation was dissolved on 10 February 2017 in Oświęcim, which affected Prime Minister Beata Szydło, I kindly inform you that the investigation team was dissolved by order of a regional prosecutor in Krakow on 14 March 2018. According to a regional prosecutor in Cracow, when he dissolved the investigation team, he took into account the fact that the district attorney in Cracow, firstly, closed the investigation and, secondly, took over the case to lead. On the other hand, according to the district attorney in Krakow, the reason for taking over the case for personal conduct was the substantive difference of opinion between him and the members of the team in assessing the validity of the exclusion of materials for separate conduct at that stage. The District Attorney in Cracow considered that the exclusion of evidence in the field of witness testimony was premature and incompatible with the rules of criminal proceedings at that time. According to the District Attorney in Krakow, accepting another solution would not only be unjustified, but could also be read as an attempt to put pressure on witnesses present in the present case. It will ultimately be for the court to assess the evidence gathered, in particular the credibility of witnesses. As to the second question, are there any reasons why the prosecution investigating the case avoids carrying out any appropriate evidence activities, the prosecution here absolutely does not avoid any evidence activities. In the course of the investigation, full evidence was collected from both personal and factual sources of evidence. It is this procedure that lasts for more than a year that shows that the procedure was conducted very carefully, carefully, and carefully, and sought to clarify all the circumstances of the case. All witnesses were questioned in the course of the investigation, the necessary examinations and experiments were carried out, and all expert opinions were attached. The prosecutor assessed this evidence as sufficient to take a substantive decision terminating the investigation. The prosecutor considered that the circumstances of the driver's accident of Fiat seicento did not give rise to any doubt as provided for in Article. 66 § 1 of the Penal Code is a condition necessary to apply for conditional remission of criminal proceedings. However, I would like to stress here that the final assessment of the evidence collected, including the assessment of the credibility of individual witnesses, remains the responsibility of the judge in the case of the court. As regards the third question, whether the prosecution's investigation was not deprived of impartiality and independence, of course, High Izbo, the investigation was conducted fairly, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry's law, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and also the Regulation of the Minister of Justice Rules of Procedure for the Office of the General Organizational Units of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This investigation was also subject to the supervision of a regional prosecutor in Krakow between 13 February 2017 and 19 March 2018 and from the information of a regional prosecutor in Krakow, it appears that no professional orders were issued during the course of the supervisory activities in the case. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński again asks an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Do not be surprised that there are questions about impartiality and the investigation being carried out, because I would remind you that on that day the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of that time stated that Sebastian K was responsible for the road collision. He repeated on February 13 that a young driver was responsible for the collision. Now, if there's information on these three prosecutors, and the situation with the prosecutor's office is that he's in charge of the Justice Minister, don't be surprised by these questions, because they obviously appear. We have here, as in the contact lens, a collision between the citizen and the state ruled by the PiS, and it is in such a direct contact, when Prime Minister Beata Szydło was also involved in this road collision. I would also like to ask if it is true, as the media say, that the credibility of the testimony of the BOR officers, unlike the witnesses of the incident, who in agreement confirmed that the column involved in this case was moving with sound signals on... that the prosecutors of this team wanted to investigate it and that it was not examined. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sierak is again responding to the Deputy Attorney General. You're welcome, Mr. District Attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think I have already answered this question, Mr President, that the credibility of the testimony of individual witnesses is judged by the court, and I would not like to go into court here and judge at this stage of the procedure. The prosecutors have already collected evidence, and the District Attorney believes that he has made the right decision, and in this regard an independent court will speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u54	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members of Iwona Michałek, Grzegorz Piechowiak and Michał Cieślak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask a question about the functioning of the program. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u55	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since April 2016 in Polish prisons there has been a program of work for prisoners. The available data show that most of the work they do is in prisons and not outside of prisons. The employment of prisoners receiving penalties allows them, on the one hand, to earn the money needed to pay the various fines imposed, some outstanding maintenance, and on the other hand, it gives them a very positive social feeling that the prisoners are working, although partly covering the costs of their stay in prison. Therefore, I ask for information on certain issues. Namely, what are the effects of the program for prisoners from the beginning of its launch in the field of penitentiary and rehabilitation? Then what are the issues of inmates' work salaries, and what solutions have been put in place? As is the case with the "Work for Prisoners" programme in statistical terms, i.e. How many prisoners have already been working after the introduction of this program?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u56	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will answer that question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! One of the basic tasks of the Prison Service in the event of the execution of a prison sentence is to carry out rehabilitation activities. Their practice is based on work, particularly in favour of obtaining appropriate professional qualifications, teaching, cultural and educational activities, maintaining contacts with the family and therapeutic measures. In isolation, the role of work is special and it is not just about planning the time of a deprived person and thus preventing inactivity. Work often offers the opportunity to acquire the professional qualifications necessary to take up employment, and also teaches legal raising of money, cooperation with others, responsibility and punctuality and a number of other skills necessary for living in accordance with social standards after leaving the unit. Performing work during isolation is a factor conducive to social re-adaptation of those deprived of freedom and to achieving life stability after punishment. It also allows for the fulfilment of their obligations. The employment of the convicted and punished before the announcement of the government's program was barely more than 20,000. persons. At the end of 2017, almost 36 thousand were employed. convicted, which is a record in the Third Republic, never before so many prisoners It wasn't working. If the employment rate is compared year-to-year from December 2017 to December 2015, the number of people in absolute figures is increased by more than 10 000. persons providing work. In addition, the High Sejm, in 2017 six production halls were put into service and the construction of the next one began. In 2018, another 17 production halls are planned to be set up in which almost 2 000 will be created. new jobs. Inmates' income amounted to 238 887 thousand in 2017. PLN and were higher than revenue in 2015 by almost 100 million. As regards the increase in the number of employees for payment and the income generated by the inmates in combination with the increase in deductions made to the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works from twenty-several percent to 45%, this led to an increase of 54,922,000 in revenues to the fund compared to 2015. PLN, revenue amounted to 98 395 thousand. zł. That's the answer to the main question. In how many cases do inmates work outside criminal establishments? The average number of convicted and punished persons employed outside the penitentiary unit in a non-convoy system was 9477 in 2017. This means that almost 9,5,000 each day. The inmates worked outside of the prisons and the arrests of the investigators. Of course, I must add that these are people convicted of lighter crimes, using the common language, because I have issued an absolute ban on working outside criminal facilities for those convicted of the most serious crimes, and this prohibition is respected. What are the issues of inmates' work salaries, and what solutions have been put in place? In this case, convicted persons were employed on the basis of a referral to work. According to Art. 123 § 2 The Penal Code of Implementation shall be determined in such a way as to ensure that the amount of at least the minimum remuneration for the work determined on the basis of separate provisions is met, with a full monthly working time or with a full monthly working standard. In the event of under-work of a monthly labour standard or failure to meet a full monthly labour standard, remuneration shall be paid in proportion to the amount of time or work standard applied. In the case of part-time employment, the lowest remuneration shall be set at an amount proportionate to the number of hours of employment on the basis of the minimum wage. Convicted persons employed under individual contracts with undertakings shall be remunerated in accordance with the contract concluded. In this form of employment, it is possible to carry out work only at the request of the convicted person, containing confirmation of the employer's willingness to employ the person concerned. Thank you kindly. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u58	Thank you. And the additional question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You've warned me about one of my questions, and I'd like to ask you about the possibility of working outside the penitentiary. In the near future, the Polish government plans to regulate Polish rivers as the main water transport routes, including Odra and Vistula. When it is taken into account that investment expenditure on reconstruction of Poland has been increased and the government has put financial resources on it, there is a greater demand for workers. It would be reasonable to activate more inmates of working age and those with the lowest penalties to work outside the prison. Therefore, I have these questions: In how many cases is the work done outside the prison? Was it considered the possibility of working by inmates in the regulation of Polish rivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u60	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u61	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that the directors of the Prison Service District have reached an agreement with representatives of regional water management boards on inmates' employment on the recommendation of the Director-General of the Prison Service. This agreement is in force. In previous years, they were employed in the work of regulating and cleaning river troughs. In the event of such a need, they may be re-directed to such work at any time. However, the number of persons eligible for work outside the penitentiary unit is limited. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, given the numerous benefits of working for paid inmates, e.g. the possibility of payment of financial commitments with particular regard to maintenance obligations, this form of employment of deprived persons is now a priority, i.e. this form of payment is a priority. In addition, it should be noted that the employment of the convicted person is carried out with the consent and under the conditions laid down by the director of the prison. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u62	Thank you. We move on to the next question, on the effects of the National Tax Administration and on the achievement of its intended objectives. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u63	Dear Marshal! Minister! In March 2017, the National Tax Administration began its activities. It was created as a result of a combination of tax administration, tax control and customs services. This great reform in public administration was a response to the expectations of taxpayers who demanded that the tax system be sealed and fair business protected. The main task of the National Tax Administration was to collect tax duties more effectively, to fight irregularities and the grey area and to prevent crime, among others. VAT fraud. The activities of consolidated tax services were also intended to focus on market order, the elimination of unfair sellers and the elimination of illegal goods. Until the creation of the National Tax Administration, the loss of the state budget was enormous. There was no effective fight against irregularities, tax fraud and fraud, thus only in 2014 and 2018 losses were estimated at PLN 262 billion. The creation of the National Tax Administration was intended to be the beginning of good developments in this public sector and to make the tax administration perceived as an effective and fair institution. As the year of operation of the National Tax Administration is passing, I ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: What are the effects of the action of the National Tax Administration and have its objectives been achieved? And how much was the revenue increased to the state budget due to the activity of the National Tax Administration? Thank you? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Walczak corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u65	Dear Marshal, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! In fact, a year ago, the National Tax Administration Act was implemented. The primary objective was to consolidate these three services, as mentioned by the honourable Member. What have we achieved? First of all, we have achieved that today the taxpayer, whether it is a corporation tax taxpayer or an income tax taxpayer or an importer, an exporter, has one body that serves it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important thing. Once, when it comes to a similar public-law tribute, the body could be controlled by three different institutions, completely independent, even with separate review bodies. Today we have a unified administration. Another important thing is the creation of a specialized uniform formation, customs and treasury service, equivalent e.g. the famous Italian Guardia di Finanza, who fought against the Italian mafia, which focuses on combating the grey zone, on combating broadly understood economic crime, where all the powers of these once dispersed three services were accumulated. Above all, however, it is worth paying attention to the system and IT solutions introduced by the National Tax Administration. This is primarily the implementation of a single control file. This is really a revolution for monitoring and control, for sealing indirectly in VAT. This solution causes the possibility of carousel crime to be severely reduced. As we know, a few weeks ago, we finally implemented a single control file. It also included small and micro-entrepreneurs. As you can see, we've achieved a great deal of success. Practically everyone submitted uniform control files, there were no problems with IT or teaching. We have been able to give this information to our taxpayers enough to achieve this without major problems. So we have a system that works very well. It is complemented by a complete novel, is the STIR system, a system that monitors payments. Just in combination, the synergy effect, the combination of both the JPK system and the STIR system, makes economic crime really difficult today. Of course, these systems did not completely eliminate her, but they cause her to be marginalized today. Finally, the third system, which also introduced the National Tax Administration, is the SENT system, the road transport monitoring system, and in the High House not long ago, two days ago was also the second reading of the amendment of this law, the introduction of also the monitoring of rail transport, the monitoring of exports of our medicines, which are missing from our patients. This is a system with a completely different approach than the previous two. This is a system again concerning prevention, preventive action on products that do not necessarily have an invoice, i.e. excise goods. What did this accomplish? Well, let me give you two examples. There is, for example, the issue of tobacco products and the grey zone today. Over the years, unfortunately, Poland has continued in a disgusting ranking of countries with a large gray zone. Unfortunately, this is also linked to our geographical location, the longest border with three countries, where cigarette prices are much lower. Unfortunately, there is an initiative of our criminal groups that produce illegal cigarettes in large quantities in our country. I emphasize today that the breakthrough on illicit cigarette production is greater than on illegal amphetamine production, 1000% up to 700%. But we managed to reduce this grey zone in a short time - this is data for the fourth quarter of 2017 - to 12.7%. And these are the data of an independent institute that works for the big four tobacco companies, so he doesn't really care about showing a little gray zone. I stress: this gray area was approaching 20% a few years ago. This is one example. Another example is gambling. The great success of National Tax Administration is the denial of illegal gambling, this huge problem - not a fiscal but social problem - from our sphere of life. It was so lucky that the National Tax Administration, entering our public activity, at the same time received a new gambling bill. As National Tax Administration, we used it. Maybe a few data that aren't interesting, of course, but on the other hand, they show a lot of action. We've locked down, locked down 1,500 Internet domains that offered illegal gambling. Interestingly, we took almost 30,000. illegal vending machines. In my opinion, whether we're successful or not, today our streets are bestowed on us. A year ago, when you were walking On the streets, there were gambling ads, there were many points. I stress that it was 100% The illegal gambling that has addicted our society. Today, when you walk on our streets, you can't see it. Of course, we failed to completely remove illegal gambling from the public space. I'm sure there's still a long fight ahead of us, but we managed to get him out of the semi-official space he was operating in. And quickly about budget revenue, closing. Of course I wouldn't want to... I stress that if the year 2000 is compared to 2017, it is obvious that the revenues have increased by more than 40 billion. But I think they pay even better: corporate tax - almost 113% , from individuals, i.e. PIT - almost 110%, VAT - almost 124%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, very, very large increases in influence in all public tributes, including excise duty and duty...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: ...so those taxes that were rarely the subject of extortion before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u67	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this data when it comes to the fight against the gray zone. We see that the National Tax Administration carries out very deep analyses, applies far-reaching computerisation, has a very modern approach to the tax administration, but we would also like to know what challenges are still facing the National Tax Administration and what plans you have for the future in order to bring as much tax success as so far and take care of the influences to our common budget, to the budget of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Walczak again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u69	Dear Marshal, Dear ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Of course, I thank you for this question, because we certainly cannot stop at this success. We need to move on, and that is the primary task of the National Tax Administration. First of all, we will have full implementation of the STIR system in the near future. This is a basic system, as I said, which, as a result of synergies with the JPK, will give us a very large sealing in the field of indirect taxes, above all VAT. The legislator, the High House, when adopting this law, introduced a timetable for its implementation, and in fact this implementation will only be completed in the summer of this year, so today we are focusing on the implementation of this system. I stress that we are also focusing on the implementation of modern analytical methods. We've already made a revolution, but this revolution must go on. We need to get ahead of criminals, so we're still trying to create an image of a taxpayer of 360 degrees, which is so-called. full analytics regarding each of the persons who were and are obliged to pay any public tributes in relation to the budget. The next change is a very large reform of customs clearance, which has not been noticed, at least by media. We have fully electronized the check-in, in fact today they can take place several hundred kilometres from the place of the goods - and there is only a check-in. But this is the first action. We want to go further, we want to make a revolution on a European scale, perhaps worldwide, so that controls come to the taxpayer so that the taxpayer doesn't have to go to the customs department. This again requires a change in the IT systems, major changes also in our guidelines, in certain regulations, but we generally aim to do so. It's certainly not going to be an easy process, but we want to make it so-called. mobile control, i.e., so to speak, the transition to a taxpayer's point of view. Then: in fact, we care not only about tax influences, but also about the development of Polish entrepreneurship, so we develop the issue of silk trail, we support the construction of a dry port in Małaszewicze. We want to become a hub for goods from the Far East, but at the same time, as you can see from our activities at the marketplaces, we want those goods that will come to Poland and to Europe - because of course these goods will spread throughout Europe - as a state budget also profit. We still want to civilize big markets, e.g. Wólka Kosowska, a great marketplace near Łódź. These are billions of zlotys, which, as you can see, were not paid to the state budget, not even that long ago, a few months ago. This action, which we have taken as the National Tax Administration, changes this and civilizes it. We also want to work with business, listen to business. And often, when I'm in business meetings, I see that business often says that it's happy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the National Tax Administration cooperates even in lawmaking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u70	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Józef Leśniak, Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Ewa Filipiak and Anita Czerwińska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask about the matter of securing funds for the construction of the new seat of the National Archive in Krakow Branch in Nowy Sącz. This question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Please, the question is asked by Mr Józef Leśniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u71	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! A branch in Nowy Sącz National Archive in Krakow was established in December 1950. It has a very rich stock of archives reaching the end of the 18th century, prepared by local administrative authorities, local governments, enterprises and social and political organizations. Some books go back to the old Polish period. The oldest book dates back to the 15th century. The files collected in the branch in Nowy Sącz constitute a treasury of the memory of the local society, a record of the past of the Sądecczyn and the land of Limanów and Gorlicka, and from the time of the existence of the New Sądeckie voivodeship they cover an even larger area. Documents stored in the ward are originals and unique and usually do not have their counterparts elsewhere. I would like to point out that Nowy Sącz is one of the oldest cities in Poland, because last year he celebrated the 725th anniversary of the location. The National Archives in Krakow Branch in Nowy Sącz has been struggling with local difficulties for a long time due to the announcement of the termination of the lease agreement by the head office owner, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Nowy Sącz. For the National Archives in Krakow Branch in Nowy Sącz, this decision constitutes a real threat of liquidation and transfer of the file to Krakow. The courts, historians and archivists who use the department of the rich archive collection held by the court express their fear of losing priceless documents. With regard to the resolution of the City Council of Nowy Sącz dated 23 January 2018 concerning the construction of the new seat of the National Archive in Krakow Branch in Nowy Sącz, I would like to mention that the authorities of the city of Nowy Sącz indicated the plot of the State Treasury, on which it would be possible to locate a new facility for the archive in Nowy Sącz. That's why I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am sending to the Minister: Will the Ministry consider securing funds for the construction of a new headquarters for a branch in Nowy Sącz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u72	Thank you very much. She corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Ms Magdalena Gawin. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the National Archive in Krakow received a letter from the District Attorney in Nowy Sącz, which shows that by the end of this year the branch in Nowy Sącz is obliged to leave the occupied premises in the prosecutor's office building. After the activities undertaken by the Director of the National Archive in Krakow concerning the possibility of further functioning of the branch and market discernment, we have chosen the following opportunity to address these problems. First of all, we're gonna rent the property from a private owner. We need to adjust the premises of the facility at ul. Sailing 9a in Nowy Sącz, then move the resource. The costs of these actions will be more than 570 000 in 2018. zł. In 2019 and in the following years 360 thousand. PLN per year will be rent and 62 thousand. zł - maintenance costs. In the longer term, we want to acquire a plot from the president of the city of Nowy Sącz at ul. 29 November and start building the headquarters of the archive branch in Nowy Sącz. Given that the archive in Krakow is no longer able to accept documentation and files from the decommissioned branch in Nowy Targ, we want this new archive to be large and large enough to accept the archive resources from the New Targ archive. I wanted to assure everyone that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is responsible for the liquidation of the various departments of state archives and that we are definitely not going to liquidate the archive branch in Nowy Sącz. In smaller cities, archives are a very important cultural centre. It is with them that family societies develop, it is with them that scientific societies develop, it is there that exhibitions are organized. In a word: this is a very important cultural centre. We have that in mind and I would like to say with certainty that the archive in Nowy Sącz will operate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u74	Thank you very much. The additional question is also asked by Mr Józef Leśniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u75	Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for expressing the will to build a new facility for the National Archives in Krakow Branch in Nowy Sącz, because it would really be a shame to throw away such rich cultural achievements and unique collections, which are the only ones in the region as well as in the country. In view of the above, I just wanted to ask you an additional question. In what time frame? could it be expected to trigger or secure funds for the construction of this new facility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u76	Thank you very much. Ms Magdalena Gawin again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u77	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As an introduction, I would like to say that at the moment we have put seven new archival buildings into use for archives. We have planned the construction of six buildings within the framework of a multi-annual programme for the construction of state archives 2019.2023 and we would also like to accommodate the construction of this new building in Nowy Sącz in this time period. I'm going to say that we've been thinking about this ourselves, because we know that we have a structural problem across the country, i.e. no longer existing buildings are used, often of a historic nature. We're building a whole new one, and then these antiques are ruined. We've been looking for a building like this. Unfortunately, these facilities, which were already ready for possible expansion, modernisation, did not meet our expectations, so we will most likely build in this range, in the years 2019 to 2023. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u78	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Ms Joanna Schmidt, Ms Monika Rosa and Ms Ewa Lieder will ask a question about the rights of women arising from the provisions of the Family Planning Act, the protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion and the Pharmaceutical Law. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u79	There are about 800 newborns abandoned every year in hospitals. In 2013, 849 children were left in hospitals, 709 newborns in 2016. The living conditions in children's homes and in welfare homes are of course very far from the basic standards, and experts say that the effect of the law is to stop abortion, which will be precisely the fate of abandoned children with disabilities, which are reported, adopted in such welfare homes. I would like to know if you are aware of this and what you will do with this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u80	The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u81	In Poland there is a very strict abortion law, actually an anti-abortion law, which is not implemented in addition. I have a question: Is it not contrary to the Constitution to refuse to provide the term of office because of a clause of conscience or to refuse to implement the right of a woman to this decision? Do you not think that you should monitor such behaviour and provide women with full information on where such a procedure can be carried out? Is the clause of conscience more important than the law, freedom, dignity and health of a woman when it comes to making such decisions? Is the Ministry or the PiS, dealing with issues of tightening the abortion bill, subject to the teachings of the Polish Episcopate and the appeals of the Catholic Church? If so, are these formal or informal meetings? Third case. The issue of adults with disabilities. The daily residence of persons with disabilities is not financed by the state budget. These are houses that are financed either by their parents or by local governments. An example of such a house is e.g. daily house stay in Chorzów. Are you planning any changes to the bill to finance such houses so that adults with disabilities have a place to stay and are not condemned to stay at home?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u82	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u83	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to stress that this is a citizens' project. At present, there is no government position on this issue, on this project, nor does the Ministry of Health position. Nevertheless, the Law and Justice in its electoral programme has repeatedly spoken on this issue, stressing that the protection of human health and life from conception to natural death is the most important thing for us. Therefore, we are in favour of protecting the conceived life. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the specific questions raised by the Members are concerned, I would like to say, firstly, that there is no such situation as regards the possibility of abortion in accordance with the current law, so that a woman faces a definitive refusal to perform the procedure. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: No, it is not.]] The clause of conscience that you mention concerns a doctor, not a physician. If the physician decides to refuse this procedure according to his conscience, the medicinal product shall indicate the subject in which such treatments may be performed. So it is not a question of the definitive prevention of the exercise of rights arising from the current provisions of the law. As regards support for women, support for families with complicated pregnancies was found as a result of studies, such as prenatal studies, which are generally available, abnormalities in the functioning of the foetus, currently on the basis of both the Life Act and many other laws, are offered very broad assistance and support for these people, starting with prenatal studies. Ladies and gentlemen, almost 100,000 have been carried out in Poland in the last year. this type of research, which is the possibility of early diagnosis of these defects... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Now it is.]] ...and that gives us the opportunity to intervene early. More than 1200 intrauterine treatments were performed during the prenatal period, repair procedures, correction of defects, which several or several years ago were fatal defects and prevented the life of the child. Therefore, there is great support for pregnant women as well as great support for families who have a disabled child. Recently introduced among others. a number of solutions related to the provision of health services. First of all, the so-called. coordinated care of pregnant persons as well as coordinated care of children. These two products financed by the National Health Fund are dedicated to families who are facing these problems. Within the framework of these products, a woman is covered by comprehensive care, both clinical care provided by doctors, by midwives and psychological care, so that she can receive support at any stage. It can also benefit from a variety of consultations with specialists without queues. After birth, care is also guaranteed for various medical specialties without referral, including rehabilitation, primarily psychological support. As part of this support, centres are created at the level of voivodships, children's coordination centres. Currently, at the level of the counties, leading educational and rehabilitation and care centres are also being set up, which will guarantee such broad, multisectoral assistance and support for these families in order to achieve the efficiency of children with health problems. So it is not justified to say that the state does not support families who are colliding with this difficult problem, it is a disabled child.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u84	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u85	Minister! Unfortunately, you did not answer the question, what about the declaration of the Podkarpacie hospitals, which they say - hospitals, not individuals - directly that there will be no abortion procedures in Podkarpacie which are possible under current law. It is worth noting that, with regard to the statistics you referred to, concerning prenatal research, the values are very high at the moment and Poland has something to boast of. However, it is also clear that forcing women to give birth to terminally ill children as a result of the Kai Godek Act will have a freezing effect when it comes to prenatal research. Women will simply meet asking for this examination, asking why you're examining it, whether it leads to abortion. I would therefore like you to address these two specific cases. At the same time, I would like to say that it is unacceptable for anyone in the 21st century to force women to bear children with severe diseases that will be in terrible torments immediately after birth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This must always be the responsibility of parents, not the policy of any party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u87	If this law is adopted, it will simply be a symbol of the unlimited arrogance of the state of power in relation to the suffering of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u88	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u89	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to correct your statement that there is a great deal of concern about prenatal testing. I don't know what sources you're basing that statement on. I have presented data that show that the number of prenatal tests is increasing, and precisely thanks to this prenatal study concrete corrective measures can be taken that guarantee children's recovery. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, but the bill will have the opposite effect.]] On the other hand, as regards the clause of conscience and medicinal entities, we are not informed that, in accordance with the current law, access to this procedure is limited. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Everyone knows that.]] Nevertheless, if there are such signals, we will respond to them. Once again, the doctor has the right to follow his own conscience. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But not hospitals.]] On the other hand, the medicinal product should indicate the person... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: He should abide by the law.]] ...or an entity in which this procedure would possibly be performed. In general, we would like to focus on supporting such a family, psychological support, offering modern methods and methods of fetal treatment. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But the bill has one recipe.]] We would also like to focus on comprehensive care of women or families who have disabled children. I would like to stress that the current government has done a lot for women... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: He didn't do anything.]] [[Shut up.]] ... e.g. introducing standards of perinatal care, implementing many preventive programs... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please do not lie.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: He didn't do anything.]] ...on the basis of which we can previously diagnose various kinds of health problems. This year we have allocated over PLN 16 million for preliminary prenatal diagnostics and prenatal therapy. In 2018 we spend PLN 8.5 million on comprehensive protection of procreational health. The Polish government spends more than PLN 3 billion on the implementation of the programme "For Life" in the years 2017 and 2021. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This law has one recipe.]] These are specific amounts that have been earmarked for these purposes through the decision of the current government and show that the government cares about women's rights as well as children's rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Waldemar Andzel and Dariusz Starzycki from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question concerns the possibility for Polish entities to raise additional funds from European funds. Mr Andrzej Gawron is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u91	Dear Marshal, Minister! The EU funds currently used by our country are PLN 360 billion allocated to cohesion policy in 2014-2020. There is, however, an additional pool, the possibility of obtaining additional funds. This is the amount of PLN 540 billion, which are additionally distributed directly from Brussels between the entities in the Member States. Most of this amount is possible to obtain in competitions. Our entities, institutions can compete for these measures. This can give not only satisfaction with obtaining money, but also prestige when it comes to research centres that can be the leaders of the research project among the Member States. I wanted to ask the Ministry, in which specific programmes our actors, our institutions may seek these additional resources from the European Union and what specific actions the Ministry takes to support scientific institutions or companies, if this is possible according to the rules of the competitions being announced, so that they can have real success in this market, which is quite competitive, because as you know, all Member States can seek these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u92	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The programmes centrally managed by the European Commission and the measures available to Polish beneficiaries are of course an important area, as Members have said. It is about the resources available to finance in many areas: modern trans-European networks, electricity grid projects, gas networks, e-services, telecommunications, research, development, climate protection and the environment. They aim to equalise the opportunities and level of development of individual areas within the European Union. Their character is always international, i.e. We have international consortia, and this adds value to these projects. I would also like to say that the importance of these projects will grow and we expect that in the future it will become more and more important. In our strategy for responsible development, too, we have assumed that the indicator we have is going to be much higher. And what do we have today? Today we have projects such as Connecting Europe. This is the most important transport, telecommunications and energy project in the European Union - about EUR 30 billion, including transport - EUR 24 billion. We have the Horizon 2020 programme for research and innovation - about €80 billion, we have the programme for investment in small and medium-sized enterprises - 2.3 EUR billion, environmental programme - around EUR 3.4 billion and Erasmus+, i.e. foreign studies, traineeships and volunteering - around EUR 14.7. In the case of the Connecting Europe programme for transport we also have national envelopes that concern Poland. Poland's share of transfers under these projects amounts to 0.8% for 2016. I expect this share to be higher in 2017. As part of our strategy of responsible development, we have foreseen actions that will strengthen Polish actors seeking these measures. The project to support and coordinate the participation of Polish actors in programmes managed centrally by the European Commission is an important element of our policy. And we have here, of course, good examples. Such a good example concerns the CEF Energy. Gaz-System is implementing large investment projects of EUR 200 million just under this programme, which is at European level, and is doing well. Today, our companies are most often partners in consortia, they are not leading, because leading companies are still those from the largest countries, such as Germany, France, Italy or Spain, but we want Polish companies to have a leading role in these projects, because then added value is the highest and the biggest advantage is also from the point of view of Polish beneficiaries. As regards what we have done, the Partnership Agreement Committee has set up a subcommittee for the coordination of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 to 2020. It consists of representatives of government, local government, contact points, centrally managed programmes, social and economic partners. The analysis of barriers to participation of Polish entities in instruments such as CEF, Horizon 2020, LIFE, COSME and Erasmus is planned. All the analyses, in addition to those concerning Erasmus, have already been completed. As part of the analyses carried out, the participation of Polish actors in these programmes will be made recommendations which will form the basis for implementing solutions so that the means available can be used to a much greater extent. We planned to create a coordination system for the use by the Polish website of programs that are centrally managed. We would like to develop standardised procedures aimed at increasing the number of actors applying for funds managed in the European Union at the level of the European Commission. Within this coordination, we would like to ensure that the system of sharing responsibility for individual programmes is clear, that the flow of information is efficient, that we would like to support beneficiaries who decide to apply for centres, and to develop a model of cooperation that is desirable between the different fund managers, so that this coordination is a coherent, efficient system. As I said, from the point of view of Poland, the importance of these measures will increase. Today, due to the easier available resources from cohesion policy, these programmes are maybe less appreciated by the beneficiaries, but we would like them to be appreciated in the end, and we are planning further conferences during which the relevant information will be provided [[♪ The bell ♪]] potential beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u94	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Dariusz Starzycki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has given us quite comprehensive information here. I would also ask for additional information on what the results of the efforts of our indigenous entities so far to fund from the programmes mentioned by the Minister are. How much money has been raised on a national scale from these programmes? In what areas do the institutions and bodies set out in these programmes build innovation and competitive advantage? What significant projects are being carried out in Poland? What institutions or what entrepreneurs implement them? Minister, I would also like to ask whether these programmes can also be used by local authorities, which work with scientific centres, are part of the Responsible Development Strategy and carry out major projects, e.g. in the field of electromobility. And one more question about the fund you mentioned about environmental protection. Is there also a possibility of financing under this fund, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to environmental bombs remaining in Poland, in our country after the previous system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Soboń again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u97	To answer the additional question, I would like to say that under Horizon 2020 this is € 238 million, which is the 15th place in the European Union, under the COSME programme is 7th place - 13.5 EUR million, under the CEF programme - 59 projects, almost EUR 5 billion, under the LIFE programme - 75 projects, and under the Erasmus+ programme, i.e. funds in 2015 and 2016, the average funding amounts to EUR 5.5 million. Yes, local authorities can benefit from these measures in cooperation with their partners, and this last question is so general that I do not answer. As a rule, yes. It seems, for example. Jaworzno could be tried with LIFE, but this is an issue that requires much more detail so that I can answer this question in a competent and unambiguous manner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u98	Thank you very much. The next question is asked by Cezary Grabarczyk, Małgorzata Chmiel and Krystyna Skibińska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. This is a question about the summary of the housing programs of the family on their own and the residence for the young. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Sibińska. Minister, two programmes implemented by the Civic Platform government: Family on their own and Living for young people allowed for the conclusion of 300 thousand. agreements. Thanks to them, 300,000. Young Poles bought an apartment. The Government of Law and Justice has promised another program, housing+. It was supposed to be better and cheaper, but already today the experts of Law and Justice, among others. President of BGKN Mirosław Barszcz, as well as Cezary Mech, criticize the implementation of the "Rooming+" programme. The flagship law, in which the National Property Resource was established, provides that it will concentrate all the land under housing construction. Mirosław Barszcz said: So far 100 monitors have been bought, two coffee machines. They're paying attention to the companies that were supposed to build these apartments. Among other things, we have such an example in Pruszków, similar in Pelplina. Turns out there'll be no low rent apartments. We've got a total disaster. The rent in Jarocin was calculated for the amount of PLN 1300 per month. This is not a fulfillment of a promise. Who is responsible for the total failure of the program Did the ministers responsible who had recently been cancelled and also the Minister Adamczyk receive the prizes? How high? And were those awards just behind the total [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Lap of the Living+?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u100	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have at least two important elements under the One is the investments made in the rental housing system, which are affordable and their supply should increase the housing structure of rental apartments as a whole within the housing structure, thus increasing labour market mobility and supporting those Poles that you did not want to support, i.e. those Poles who are excluded from their credit rating and had no opportunity to participate in the programmes that have been implemented so far. Moreover, these programmes only increased demand for housing, which is not lacking in Poland. We lack the supply of housing, we lack the right scale to influence the market in such a way that this market is more competitive, and the prices of housing more accessible to Poles, and that in this market everyone finds the right offer for themselves. And that is why the state intervention is - to increase the supply of housing to increase it substantially, one that will change the market situation, so that this final consumer, the Pole who wants to buy or rent the apartment, gets the most advantageous offer. Therefore, our support on the one hand for the housing available for rent, and on the other hand for the municipalities - in the form of a whole package of support for municipal, local and TBS investments. At the moment, housing projects are being implemented for several thousand such apartments. Within the framework of the apartment+s, there are 25 thousand in preparation. apartments. This is a major breakthrough in the implementation of the State's housing policy. In the case of living+, we would first of all like to increase the supply of housing by increasing the availability of land and shortening procedures. That is why we referred to inter-ministerial arrangements last week to a law that facilitates the implementation of housing investments. On the other hand, we are ready to support the scheme of subsidies under the scheme of living + the poorest, but those who will be within the framework of the so-called. rental capacity for rentals or rentals with access to property. And this payment system will be shown next week. On the one hand, it is intended to achieve social objectives, and on the other hand it will be depreciation, security for investors and investment leverage for the housing+ programme. The KZN, which you have said as a land bank, will be an element to reduce the costs of implementing these investments by the costs associated with the land. These are important costs in cities today and the opportunity to implement these investments in areas that are affordable, of course, reducing them. KZN as a land bank will certainly play an important role in the Apartment+ program. I don't want to go back to the programs that have been realized. The MdM programme had its time, was due to end in 2018 and ends in 2018. Today we need to support supply, we need to create it on the right scale, we need to build a system in which there will be more players implementing the housing program in Poland, so that it will build in Poland more than 200,000. total housing per year, including a significant part of it being rentals with affordable rents for Poles. And if we are talking about subsidies, in the case of two children and two adults, i.e. a four-member family, and the rent that you have said about it, in the amount of about 1,300 PLN, this surcharge on our part will probably amount to just over 400 PLN. This will be related to the replacement value, the meter and the number of tenants in the household. When we add the program to it, 500+, within which, if there are two children, for one child is paid 500 PLN, it will turn out that we have actually affordable apartments for the Polish family. Are these announcements real? They're totally real. The dynamics we have announced regarding the implementation of these housing investments are completely realistic. During the construction of the mom, as I said, 1880 apartments within the framework of the housing +, 7500 apartments as part of support for local governments, approx. 600 apartments were built as part of support for local governments of various kinds. Therefore, we would like to start this by the end of next year, prepare the implementation of about 100,000. apartments under the scheme. Accommodation+. Did the ministers receive awards? Yes, ministers have received awards. This information is publicly available. In this case it is Minister Żuchowski, who also received such a prize. Which ministers are responsible for implementing this programme? Today the programme is designed as follows: it is the Housing Council headed by the Prime Minister and it is given priority to this task, because it is an extremely important task for us, unfortunately neglected by our predecessors, that is, by your government. The Housing Council coordinates all the work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas construction matters are in the competence of the Ministry of Investment and Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u102	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you deny yourself. What kind of land bank is this National Property Facility if for six months he couldn't organize or own a piece of land? The lack of functioning of the National Property Resources proves that we, the Civic Platform, are right. I presented the platform's position on the KZN bill six months ago. Time has confirmed that the speech is correct. Even the co-author of M+ Mr. Barszcz said that the assumptions of this program are unrealistic and the bill is dead. So this is another legal bubble of the PiS, which needs to be changed thoroughly, as the Minister himself said, stating that you are already withdrawing from this, you will now continue to subsidise private developers. I wanted to ask you if it's true what I said was that the rent wasn't going to be low at M+, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that you had the Polish people with cheap apartments from the M+ program, and in Jarocina it turned out that the rent will be a commercial amount. It's only a pity for the people who believed you and were hoping for a cheap apartment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u104	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Artur Soboń, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u105	Madam President, I was hoping for a serious question, not accusations that are completely wrong, because it was you who paid the developers, we pay the tenants. If we're talking about the payment system... [[But that's absurd, Minister.]] ...then these subsidies will be directed directly to the tenant. And it's the only way that this investment leverage I've told you about will be able to function in a progressive system for nine years. The bill will be addressed to inter-ministerial arrangements next week. So we work quickly, we work efficiently, we respond to the needs of Poles, because these housing needs are still unsatisfied in Poland. [[It's been two and a half years.]] And the direction of aid, once again, for demand, not supply, was something that experts criticized. And the implementation of your programme -- I don't want to judge it, but it seems to me -- it's good that it's over, because we need supply support programmes today, because the more... [[300,000. apartments.]] ...there will be apartments in Poland, the greater and more diverse their availability for Poles. That's what we're talking about. We want to solve the social problem so that housing is an important driver of the development of the Polish economy and to build a system of cooperation with various institutions, including KZN, which, as I said, has areas that will certainly be used for the needs of... [[Where are these areas?]] All over Poland. ...of the Living+ programme and will be used. I can say that it is worth following information that is transmitted to the public by means of social communication. For example, on Monday in Lublin we applied for construction conditions for 304 apartments in the Polish Post office. That's where the land is. These are the areas of such entities, those which are used under the Living+ programme. We want this program to change the face of this, change the housing situation of Poles, we want to give Poles an offer that will be competitive. Increase land supply, increase housing supply, shorten procedures, surcharge for the poorest, use of state land and use of market-based instruments that will change the economic and social situation of housing. And what he said does not affect the implementation of the programme in any way. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, this particular investment in Pruszkow will not be realised and the Member knows very well that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u106	Minister, please don't discuss this with the Members in the Chamber. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: ...in this respect, we do not bear any costs or risks from the implementation of the entire programme. I can exchange those investments that are now [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared and implemented. These are investments that will allow us - once again - to reach the number of 100,000. apartments prepared for completion at the end of next year. Thank you very much. [[We wish you success.]] Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this sitting of the Sejm, information will be considered on persons who are being sentenced and who have been subject to free detention or detention and who have been acquitted in the course of the trial or as a result of the reopening of proceedings or cassation, as well as on compensation for wrongful conviction, temporary arrest or detention, as requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. I would now like to ask the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, the matter of Tomasz Komenda, who served almost 18 years, has become public. What's most annoying about this case is that the D.A. says he hasn't read the case file. Well, judicial or prosecutorial mistakes happen everywhere, but unfortunately in Poland, what I have to say with regret, these mistakes are not so little. I would like to point out one thing: these are not mistakes that occurred in 2006 or 2007, namely for Mr Zbigniew Ziobra or today. These mistakes have been going on since 2000. Let me give you a few examples. Adam Duda, who's been in jail for 15 years, also a murder case. I'm asking if this is another court-procurator mistake. Krystian Broll stayed in a mental institution - the case was very loud - practically 12 years. Even though the doctors thought he wasn't dangerous, he was kept in a mental institution. My question is, did he ever get compensation because he's already dead? The brothers Adrian and Jarosław Kaczmarczyk, who are in prison, and police officer Janusz Bartkiewicz said that there is no evidence that they committed the murder, and the testimony was made by people who were suspected of the murder and who were in one facility during the arrest only so that they could agree on the testimony and then chose each other. The Ducks, and they've been charged. Who's sitting? They. There's no other trace. Czesław Kowalczyk spent 12 years and 3 months in prison. He's the one who got a pretty decent settlement for the whole jail out of these kinds of cases, if you can say so, because $2,700,000. The question is whether it's 2,700 thousand. That's a decent amount for 12 years of imprisonment. Think about it if it's the right amount, like you're gonna be in jail for 12 years and get that kind of compensation. Jan Ptaszyński. This case also goes on, including 25 years imprisonment. I quote: There is no biological evidence of his presence at the scene of the murder, but there is a biological trace indicating another perpetrator - a foreign hair found in the sheets of the murdered. There is another hair, found in the hand of a murdered child, also not coming from Ptaszyński, and originating, as determined, from a person related to the murdered. And these people were related in the circle of suspicion. It's also like he's sitting there and no one's doing anything anymore. Zbigniew Góra, ladies and gentlemen, a man who got 25 years in prison for killing a doctor. Luckily, the D.A. was alert here, and after returning to the case three years later, he got out of that prison. But what kind of compensation did he get? Well, in three years' imprisonment, when his family fell apart, he had a final sentence of 25 years in prison, and he got 48,000. Indemnities and 275,000. to make amends. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I can't give you any more of these examples, but I'll give you another one. Richard Gasparski, businessman, sat four months, got $25,000. Indemnities, however, are such flowers that a publisher received 500,000. In six days' detention, for seven hours' detention is 10,000, 11 hours' detention is 160,000, 24 hours' detention is 20,000. That's what I'm asking you. Minister, first of all, I would like to know whether you are dealing at all with such suspicious cases, which have been since 2000, in the case of which, in principle, the evidence is revealed, even in the State's State programme. It would be worth a look at these things, really. This is the first issue, and this is where I declare my cooperation, because I almost know these things. As far as the second case is concerned, this is particularly a matter of redress. The amount of compensation depends on whether they are ours or theirs. This has to be verified. It can't be that someone gets 600,000 for six days' detention. Only because he was making good money, because, ladies and gentlemen, when we lock up a young man, he could've graduated from college and been an envoy if he hadn't been in jail for 15 years. There's no way to say he didn't work, which means he doesn't deserve it because he didn't lose anything. And all the machines were stolen from Gasparski. This is similar to Mark Kubali's case, but maybe a little smaller. He's been taken out pretty good. It's not enough, he's after a heart attack, he's sick, the banks are after him, and the court in Łódź ruled, surprisingly, he said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's not gonna make amends because he's supposed to be watching the machines. How was he supposed to watch the machines while he was in prison?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u108	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u109	Minister, I want to know at all what it's like with these arrests for a while. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u110	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u111	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for bringing this up here, Mr President. It is worth presenting some important statistics, but before I do so, I would like to say this: Mr. Tomasz Komenda is free today thanks to the fact that there has been a connection between the role of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. [[Really?]] And that's the truth. Of course, if there was a question about details, I would be happy to give this information, but if it were not for the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro and if it were not for the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski, Mr. Tomasz Komenda would still be in prison. The question is, if, of course, there is a request for detailed explanations: What did the predecessors do? What was done, for example? in 2010? [[Lech Kaczyński what did he do?]] What was done when D.A. Biernat signaled it? Our D.A.'s office, our courts work differently today. [[Whoever put him in there, tell me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u112	Mr. President, don't yell out there from the gym... [[Because he's full of shit.]] You're not in the pub. You're in the Seym. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the issue of the application of preventive measures, there may be two sources of error here. It could be a system error, and it could be a human error. The system has been well-designed, and it works for many years. Of course, there are provisions that could be improved, for example. the issue related to regressions, because this provision, art. 557 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, perhaps it should be amended to make it clearer so that there are clear indications when this regression can be applied, which entities are entitled to do so. But most of the time, it's a human error. And in all this the truth is brutal: the whole training system, which has been built over the past years, has been a poorly constructed system. This is why the reform is being carried out, which is why today we have proposed a revision of the National Judicial School and Public Prosecutor's Office Act, which is why we are stressing the issue of reform so strongly today. It is very important that today there are no judges in the system, for example. They take 50 zlotys, and someone else who settles this matter in disciplinary proceedings says that it is because of distraction; or another judge who takes the element of a screwdriver, a zloty for 8 zlotys, and does not take almost any responsibility for it, although he should be expelled from the profession, and everyone knows it very well; or the judge who is in custody today, the former President of the Court of Appeal in Krakow - your card, these courts, your courts, just from your time - who is in custody today and was in an organized criminal group. That's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a lot of issues, and you know that, also to the Ministry of Justice, to the Office of Control and Analysis, and if this human factor fails... And in the case of Mr. Tomasz Command, for example, there was a chain of mistakes that were committed many years ago - murder, I repeat, was committed in 1997. After all, there were prosecutors, there were police, there were judges, there were several instances. That's the problem, human error, human factor failed. That's why training is so important, what you have been testing here very often. When things come to us... I do not want to be specific about individual cases here, but I do know some of those things that you spoke about. These people are also writing to us and the first thing we're doing is we're sending it to the control and analysis office, we're preparing a detailed analysis, especially when cases from prisons are coming to us, and then if we see something may be wrong, we're going to the prosecution's office to consider further action. There's a lot of things like that. Why? Over 40,000. complaints affect the Ministry of Justice. Over 40,000. complaints. As far as statistics are concerned, today we have such data that in 2017 there were 18 750 requests to the court for provisional arrest. It's more than that. in 2015. The courts applied a temporary arrest in 2017 in more than 17 thousand. cases. This means that prosecutors' requests are justified, more than 90% of the courts take these requests into account, which is very important. But why are there more cases in statistics today where a preventive measure is used in the form of a temporary arrest? For a very simple reason: because today our criminal policy has changed. Today, the tenement cleaners are thrown into custody, and then, I think, into prisons. In your time, sir, because here you are trying to interfere with my speech, in your day they walked free... [[Me? I'm amazed.]] ...then they're in jail today. There's a criminal policy in rape cases today to protect society. That's why they're supposed to be in jail. If they have committed an act, if this is the case, they are to be imprisoned. Today in the VAT business... They used to laugh about it. The tax code was a tool that was fought against the mob, organized crime groups, often of an international nature. We've introduced new regulations, you've questioned that. Punishment of 25 years of imprisonment as far as possible. We're the ones who introduced these new regulations. [[And the gap is expanding.]] Today, those people whose place is in custody are in custody. That's the big difference. On the other hand, when it comes to compensation and compensation, this is the second part of the Member's question, it is not possible to determine the tariff operator, there is no way to indicate the price list, how much compensation is paid, how much compensation is paid for the damage. That's not gonna happen. I don't think there's a system like this in the world. [[It is, European.]] I want to say that it is the court, the judges who are to decide what is the amount of compensation, what is the damage, what is the loss of benefits, what is the individual examination of a given case, how much the man lost because he was in prison, that there was a preventive measure against him or that there was a detention. It's very important, but it's up to the judges to decide. There's no way to establish a price list, for example. a price list of compensation. How do we determine the harm? It's the individual characteristics that decide that. How do you determine how much you pay for environmental ostracism? There's no way to really put it in a cabbie. So these rules seem to be working well and should not be amended in this respect, but our policies have changed. Of course, we would also like, as regards instruments such as the complaint and the resumption, to have more grounds for possible compensation for wrongful conviction or the application of a preventive measure. It's about using an instrument like a re-launch. That would mean the court didn't have, for example. evidence whether or not he knew certain facts by issuing a ruling in a given case. Unfortunately, most of the time this is an erasation, i.e. there were gross procedural or material errors, e.g. without a legal basis, judgments were issued or the upper limit of the statutory threat was exceeded and the penalty was much more severe than it should have been. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to people. The system, in my opinion, works well, is well-designed, and any situation in which compensation must be paid is a failure of the state. But it's not just characteristic of Poland. I think there is no state in the world where there would be a perfect, perfect system where there would be no need to pay compensation or redress. There is no, because there is this element, which is a human factor, that man decides whether to actually apply one or another provision, within which limits this provision applies. That is why reform is very important. That is why the matter of Mr Thomas Command justifies many of the issues we have discussed here in this House. This is a case concerning the merger of the role of prosecutor general and minister of justice, a whole reform of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and today's discussion of the reform of the National Judicial Council. Who goes to justice? Those who are chosen by the judge's community get hit. National Judicial Council, which is on guard [[♪ The bell ♪]] The independence of the courts and the independence of the judges plays an extremely important role as this link, which determines who he represents as a candidate for nomination to the President of the Republic of Poland. That is why this reform is so important. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u113	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers, then. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Human error is the answer to what these mistakes and misconceptions result from. Our role is to consider whether these errors are to some extent to be eliminated, and to some extent we can improve the system that would eliminate these errors, I think, because it is unlikely that it would completely exclude them. My question concerns a specific question. The example of Tomasz Command does not concern this, but, of course, there are several hundred misjudges per year. The testimony of witnesses, which is often one of the serious, important evidence that appears in cases, is often wrong, and is often misleading to the justice system. Are perjury cases investigated today at the right level and with proper effectiveness and insight? Wouldn't it be worth considering here, in order to bring about a situation where the testimony of witnesses is more truthful and will be convinced of their right to swear simply? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Really a little more humility. You wanted to hear more specific questions? Here you go, Zbigniew Ziobra's role as well. Is it true that Minister Lech Kaczyński intervened in the case of this drama by Tomasz Komenda in 2000 in the autumn, in October, also by changing prosecutors in March 2001 to do so in writing? What was Zbigniew Ziobro doing as the right hand of Lech Kaczyński, Minister of Justice? He didn't go to Wroclaw? Do you have any knowledge of this? Can you give us the documents that the prosecution received at the time in this particular case that it had at its disposal? When was the indictment handed down to the court? Two weeks later. You know perfectly well that political pressure has caused this drama. Wasn't there a request for acquittal filed with the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński? Did the D.A.'s office give an opinion on this document or not? Did Minister Duda at the time refer the matter to give an opinion? What happened to those thousands of innocently imprisoned in the days of Sheriff Zbigniew Ziobra? These compensations, which Mr Jachnik referred to, concern people who are innocently held in custody. If at the time of Sheriff Ziobra thirty-seven thousand people were arrested, then from the statistics themselves, because about 5% These are really unjustified cases, without the fact, misconceptions, etc., some record-makers have been in custody for several years without charges, it appears to be 1.5 thousand. persons per year. Do you know how 2015 ended? 8,000. persons in custody, even if it is 5% 'Cause there's probably a situation like this, too, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's much less, but the adversity and the possibility of appealing to the courts of unjust arrests is over 50%, for your government, Sheriff Ziobra - 3%. Is there a difference? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u117	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u118	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear young people at the gallery! I would like to present the problem of the entrepreneur Mr Richard Gasparski. In 2000, there was a raid on his company and a 4-month arrest. The D.A.'s office and the police haven't secured it. Professional tailoring machines and raw materials were stolen. The machines were leased and on loan. Mr. Gasparski's under arrest, he's having a heart attack. After four months, he goes free, and the court acquits him. The Łódź Court of First Instance in 2015 judges him only 25 thousand. compensation. He refuses to make amends by stating that the company was to be secured by him or his family. Mr Gasparski is currently being prosecuted by the banks for leasing, loans, and also by the employment office, because he employed unemployed people and had funding. The question is, Minister, how is an entrepreneur supposed to pay off a lot of hundreds of thousands of debts when his company was stolen? Don't you think that compensation for an entrepreneur is a citizen's joke? There are many such flowers in Poland, tens of them. People experience tragedies - they close up, they lose their assets, their entire life's achievements, not only the owner suffers, but also the workers, the gehenna survive their families. But it goes to a better place, and here is hope. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You'd like to say what kind of courts we have, everyone can see. Therefore, the rule of law and justice is so determined to make a good change, including in the judiciary, which with equal determination and assistance so-called. The total opposition wants to preserve the existing state. We're confident that the change will work. Referring to the state of our judiciary after the so-called. a breakthrough, i.e. already in free Poland, I would like to ask the Minister: Is he familiar with any actions of the judge's community that respond to numerous curiazal judgments handed down by various judges in Poland? I'm just talking about the substance, and I'm asking about the environmental response, not necessarily formal. Has this environment held any discussions, meetings at which it has responded to the evidently incompetent judgments of its colleagues, paying attention to the need to deepen knowledge and to study law with understanding, to approach honestly, to apply their professional duties, but they are a much better-paid group, above the national average, so they should work fairly? The environment could be expected to respond to the gross incompetence of some of its colleagues. Are you familiar with such cases? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The matter of Mr. Tomasz Command, as in the lens, shows all the shortcomings in the justice system. But the most dangerous disease in the justice system, the most serious cancer that's going on with him, is the interference of people who don't know anything about the justice system, they don't know about the case, but in order to raise political capital, they press the prosecutors, they press the judges to get convictions that will allow them to raise this political capital. In his speech, Minister Wójcik said what is at the heart of the reform of the justice system, this pseudoreform, which has been trained for two years in this House and in Poland. The point is, you used the phrase: our prosecution, our courts. That's the problem. It's supposed to be your D.A.'s office and your courts, your farm, the minister's farm, the politician's farm that wants to point a finger at who's guilty and who's innocent. That's why Tomasz Commanda has been in prison for 18 years, because a politician, the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General pointed his finger, saying: someone has to be convicted in this case. The D.A.'s not doing well, there's no evidence, so we'll replace the D.A. In two weeks, an indictment was made and a young boy spent 18 years in prison - Minister of Justice Lech Kaczyński, Deputy Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro. Today, on the example of that procedure, he changes the entire justice system so that he can manually control: show, convict people at press conferences, as he did as the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, when he ruled at the time of PiS' first power. Unfortunately, this pathology becomes a rule. We demand documents on the participation of Minister Lech Kaczyński and Deputy Minister Zbigniew Ziebra in influencing the prosecution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the pressure on the D.A.'s office in the Tomasz Command case. This case needs to be cleared up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u123	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You were talking about procedures, about rules, and we're still living in a country that has been known to function since Soviet psychics. So as not to be literal, Krystian Broll spent 12 years in a mental institution on the basis of his own statements. Despite the order of the Rybnik District Court to place Broll in the base-security unit, this gentleman spent two years in the ward with murderers and paedophiles. Krystian Broll was the victim of art. 94 Penal Code, which allows for unlimited detention in a mental institution. Every six months the Rybnik District Court extended his stay at the plant, although the opinions state that he was not aggressive, behaved normally, there was no basis for this. After 12 years, only after the intervention of journalists, after revealing this scandalous event in the State in the country, Mr Krystian Broll was released. Minister! I ask you to answer the question: don't you think that art. 94 of the Penal Code is abused, and in the case of Krystian Broll, any of the experts, judges, prosecutors, anyone with any responsibility? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At meetings, conferences are said to discuss the fact that judges make mistakes or give unfair sentences. It is also said that people affected in this way may claim compensation from the state. However, can we, as citizens, count on having consequences for the judges themselves? It is said that judicial disciplinary courts do not indulge judges blamed for errors and violations of law, but these discussions show that it is more about procedural shortcomings than about damage to citizens. There are no disciplinary proceedings concerning mistrials in criminal matters, because this falls within the categories of judicial independence. It's said that the judge can't act under pressure to threaten a possible punishment for the error of judgment. Do judges not have to fear any ailment in connection with their mistakes and even more conscious action? Minister, have there been solutions in recent years restricting their power, allowing citizens to exercise their rights effectively to some extent? Minister, have there been consequences in the past from events of course resulting from misconceptions? Can judges be held liable in such situations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the Minister has been very emotionally trying to tell us how wonderful it is, but he forgets that the pressure exerted by politicians on prosecutors and judges is the worst. This is a classic case: Tomasz Komenda sat 18 years for the fact that the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Lech Kaczyński wanted to succeed. He came to Wroclaw, did a press conference on 8 February 2001, in which he wanted to brand prosecutors, show them how it, for four years they didn't find the guilty, we have to find him, we replace the prosecutor. If there's no evidence, they'll find it. If they don't find them, we kick them out. That's all thinking. The system must be defended against this, just so that politicians do not want to make their political capital against innocent people, because then the prosecutor, the judge or the entire justice system is subject to that thinking. Later it is dramatic, because then we pay huge damages, we pay penalties for the chronicity of procedures, just because one or the other wise - he thinks - a politician wants to succeed quickly and forces prosecutors to quickly direct prosecutions. We had to clean up after you guys. In 2009, we introduced a complaint about the length of the preparatory procedure just after you guys introduced mining arrests. Everyone to jail - that was the crown proof of Zbigniew Ziobra. Who did something - to jail. I want everyone in custody until they confess. This is the mentality you had, and unfortunately you have until today, and I will remind you that unless a man is convicted, he is considered innocent, which is beyond your comprehension. It was in your time that most people were in custody, and then we had to pay them compensation in connection with the Strasburg judgments and Polish courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's dramatic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u129	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unusual imprisonment in a prison is undoubtedly causing unusual harm to the inmate's psyche. If so, how does the Polish State provide psychological assistance to wrongly imprisoned people after they have left prisons? Second question, Minister. You said today that there was no taxi driver, because how to value the harm. I'm gonna ask you another question. The former chief of police Konrad Kornatowski received 10,000 for 7 hours' detention. zł compensation. The former Minister of the Treasury of Wąsacz in 2007 received 160 thousand for 11 hours' detention. zł. Former national prosecutor Janusz Kaczmarek in 2007 for a 24-hour detention received compensation of 20,000. zł, while the publisher Bogusław Seredyński received as much as PLN 0.5 million for 6 days in prison. How does this apply to the entrepreneur Richard Gasparski, whom my colleague Romecki spoke about, who received 25 thousand. PLN for 4 months, or an activist of Solidarity, who received 7 thousand for one year's internment. Evil? Do you think we live in a just country? Because if someone gets it in 24 hours or 11 hours, I don't know, 160,000. zł, and someone in 4 months - 25 thousand. zloty, that makes me think that they're equal and equal. You say there's no taxi driver. Well, maybe we should bring him in, because for me right now, there's an unofficial taxi driver: people who know or have a deal, who have positions like police chiefs or prosecutors, get a lot higher stakes than businessmen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Poland, about 300 people are wrongly convicted each year, but such mistakes can be much more, because they are just statistics of misconceptions that have been accidentally noticed. It is also worrying that the vast majority of wrong judgments are detected as a result of a cassation procedure rather than a resumption procedure, the aim of which is precisely to eliminate possible errors. It is also worth noting that from one year to the next the number of wrong convictions is increasing as a result of false testimony before a court. I think that this phenomenon should also be limited in some way. I would like to ask the Minister what action would have to be taken to minimise, and preferably eliminate, this ungrateful statistics of wrong judgments, as well as the growing trend in misleading the court by giving false testimony. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Today, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro should be sitting in the courtroom. Because he was then Lech Kaczyński's deputy, he knows the matter of Tomasz Komenda best, but as usual he avoids explanations, hides around the offices, sends his deputies and pretends that there is no problem. But this problem is, and it's serious. A man has spent nearly 20 years in prison - not a month, not two, but most of his life. Unfortunately, this is the end of political pressure on the prosecution, something that, unfortunately, is a rule for you, such a normal mechanism of action. You think the D.A.'s office just needs to function. This was the case with Tomasz Komenda, and this was the case between 2005 and 2007. Let us remind you that it was in the D.A.'s office that there was an anchor saying: if they sit down, they will say so. I can only recall a few examples that are available in the media. Ladies and gentlemen! I spent a year and three months in custody. I wasn't interrogated. The prosecutor only asked if the son was an ABW officer," said Stanisław Chmielewska. "I was urged to give testimony in exchange for a change in the preventive measure," says Jerzy Krzystyniak, a businessman who spent almost a year in custody. They broke me and I testified. I'm not ashamed. They asked me mostly about Blida Basia," says Barbara Kmiecik. As this story is over, we all know. You do not draw any conclusions, because what was the blackest card in the history of the Polish prosecutor's office after 1989 also returns in this term. It's this term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You started by introducing laws that give a politician the ability to give binding orders to all prosecutors. You threw in the trash the adversariality that defended the Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u136	...because that is your sincere intention...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u137	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u138	...political management of the D.A.'s office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u139	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u140	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, it's embarrassing to throw a hot potato between the Platform and the PiS. Guys, let's think, let's have this discussion substantively... [[But these are concrete, sir.]] ...not in principle: in your day, it was worse, it's better for ours. There's a change in time: no, it's worse for yours, it's better for us. It's ridiculous. It doesn't lead to anything. Minister! Adam Duda sentenced to 25 years in prison for four murders of underworld people - the case has been in the Supreme Court four times - has been in prison for 15 years. After digging into the history of this case, it turns out that Dudala was accused by a coroner serving a sentence of 25 years. Interestingly, in the courtroom, people detained in these murders and in connection with related cases did not recognize Adam Dudaly as the perpetrators. The coroner gave a completely different description: a person less than 10 cm tall, with a different posture, without special signs - and Adam Duda has a distinctive mark on her face - and she drives a completely different car. As it turns out, he was exposed to a lot of younger, lower and thinner men who were very different from him. I ask you, isn't this another fatal prosecutorial error like the one in Mr. Command's case? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u141	Thank you. You have a voice, Mrs... Ms Cicholska put the question in writing. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In July 2015, the law on adversariality in criminal proceedings, adopted at the request of the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, entered into force. This procedural principle, imposing an obligation on the parties involved in the judicial process to present factual and evidence and to clarify all the relevant circumstances of the case, introduced equality between the parties and was of great importance for the rule of law procedure. The European Union is now asking for this rule of law procedure. According to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, adversariality ensures a fair process, which is a fundamental human right, restricts the manipulation of the process and prevents the continuity of proceedings, which is very important. On the other hand, the PiS decided to abolish this important procedural principle as soon as it took power and in April 2016 repealed the rules on adversariality in the criminal process. The question is, why? In order to make it easier to influence trials, arrests, so that there is no transparency of proceedings? It's very dangerous. Why introduce rules that give rise to such suspicions? There are very many concrete examples of abuse of law, e.g. In 2005, a cardiac surgeon from Bialystok was the victim of provocation by another doctor and Bialystok police. Suspected of accepting a bribe stayed in custody for several months and was acquitted. There are many such examples. The social impact is enormous: depression, loss of health, and even life. No one can restore this health, no compensation. And the question is: What was the Ministry of Justice's direction by abolishing the principle of adversariality in criminal proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Podkraków's entrepreneur Mr. Kazimierz Ciepal was tried by the court at the request of the fraud - wrongly judged. On this basis, the bailiff from his company's account took 100,000. zł. Of course, Mr. Kazimierz was very quick to cancel. The court decided that he was actually wrong. At the same time, Mr. Kazimierz Ciepali asked the bailiff to secure the $100,000 he took from his account. The court made a mistake, admitted that he had been manipulated by a fraud, and ordered the bailiff to take the money away from that cheater. Unfortunately, at the same time, because he was a fraud, the fraud liquidated the money. Mr Kazimierz has been trying to get his money back for years, his 100,000, and to make it more interesting how my colleague Mr Szramka spoke, it does not matter politically, because the court was wrong about the rule of the Civic Platform, the bailiff did not listen to the request - although he could - to secure these funds and wait for the judgment of the court to be favourable, and for the governments to my interpellations and his requests you write back that unfortunately everything was done in accordance with the law, the law is good and you have no influence on it. The entrepreneur gets into debt, he loses 100,000. Evil as a result of mistakes. You're saying that the system is good and that it was only in those days, because it's better for them. So I'm showing you a case that goes on during your two governments. You say the system is good right now, and the man doesn't have his 100,000. I'm not talking about the compensation and the costs he's incurred because the court made a mistake, and the bailiff maliciously took the money away from him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u145	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the number of people affected by courts and state institutions in recent years is alarming. A dramatic picture of justice emerges from many human tragedies, such as the Thomas Command case. It is often the case that the Court of First Instance makes cardinal procedural errors, and the next courts cement its errors. In addition, individual cases of law-impaired judges also show a huge crisis in the judiciary. I have a question, Minister. Is it possible to eliminate cases of obvious mistrials by changing the law, or is it dependent on careful, thorough analysis of cases by the court with impartiality? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Piechota isn't here. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As you've noticed, my clubmates speak in a certain formula. The Lord said that every case in which a man was convicted, tried or even convicted, placed in a prison or in a mining arrest, comes out after a dozen years and is a state failure. For me and my clubmates... We focus on specific cases, on specific people, because they, not the state, are the victims in this case. Another example, which I will cite, is the example of Mr Zbigniew Góra, who was wrongly sentenced to 25 years in prison. With this sentence he was in prison for three years - without any proof of guilt. He's been in prison for three years. During that time, his marriage fell apart. And only thanks to the D.A. has it been established that this is a mistake, just like in the lately loud case of Mr. Command. What compensation was granted to him? 48,000. PLN for 3 years in prison and approx. 270 thousand. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Can we really talk about the fact that any amount is able to make up for three years in prison and, worse than that, practically for breaking up family life and breaking any part of life? Minister, I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform. I can't see either. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15. Mr Sitarski, you are welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Another compensation case: over 100,000. zł... Mr Claudiusz Necessary carried out a transaction with an entrepreneur who had already been charged, so to speak, a failure to pay to state institutions, ZUS, the tax office. It's over 100,000. was paid to the entrepreneur by Mr Claudius the Necessary. The bailiff had that money in his account, that money for a year. Despite the judgment that annulled the transaction, the funds were not returned to Mr. Necessary, but were distributed between the Social Security Office, the tax office. In short, the entrepreneur was, so he claims, deceived by the Polish state. Is it also possible in such cases that these measures, I am no longer talking about compensation, will be refunded in any way? And the other thing. The question is how will the Ministry of Justice address prosecutors and judges who treat their subordinates in a nonchalant manner. There was a recent case with Piotrków Trybunalski. In my view - and not just my own, also widely understood public opinion - some judges really should be reviewed and treated. If there are such things as the one from Piotrków Trybunalski - the Minister certainly knows who I am talking about, because there was a disciplinary matter, a transfer - then it would really be necessary to look at the multiple wrong attitude towards the citizen by judges and prosecutors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u151	Thank you very much. I ask you, Mrs Eve Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are people in my office who have been harmed by the justice system. Most of it is civil, property. They don't come with the fact that they don't like judgment, but they come with the fact that it's unfair. It's about a case involving the owners of one of the companies that doesn't exist today. The lawyer didn't do his duty and filed an unsuccessful appeal. He just forgot to pay 30 PLN. The victim, of course, handed the lawyer over to the court, but the court decided that nothing really happened, because it's not clear whether this appeal would win. The case is over. The fact that the next appeal was closed, in the judgment of the court, or rather of the judge who led the case, does not matter. I have a question about what it looks like in other European countries, because I have not heard that in Poland for such judgments judges have consequences. Are there solutions in other European countries that allow for consequences to be drawn against those judges who pass wrong judgments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u153	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. I can't see. Member of Blazej Parda, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Judge Zielińska for a 3.5-month wrongful arrest in 2010 receives 300,000. zł compensation. Please tell me how many private entrepreneurs and Polish citizens received similar compensation for the same time and whether it is true that there is no price list. Because everything points to the fact that if the judge judges the judge, he can feel the way he would have behaved in that situation. Perhaps it would be worth creating a jury that will be composed of people with similar professions, with a similar family situation. Let them judge how they might feel about this injury. Maybe the judge isn't able to get into it when it comes to prison because maybe there aren't the same conditions. I think it'd be worth it to go this way. I checked that the average salary, compensation per day was about PLN 200. 200 PLN with such grossly high compensation for extraordinary caste. There are not only judges in this caste, but also chiefs and prosecutors. Every citizen, ordinary or entrepreneur, won't get that 200 zloty. If the average is 200 zlotys, he will have maybe 100 zlotys per day in custody. I think it's scandalous and grossly low compensation. I think we need to work out at least a minimum wage, worthy, decent. Unless you can work out a maximum, you can certainly work out a minimum, so that everyone can be sure that if they go to jail and are wrongly accused, at least for a while they can live a decent life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. She's not here. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A loud investigation into Tomasz Komenda took place during the time of Minister of Justice Lech Kaczyński. Was there any pressure, an exchange on the D.A.'s stools under investigation? Well, from reliable sources, yes. Is this the only error of judgment from the rule of law and justice? Definitely not. We have an acquitted Dr. G., we have the culprit Prime Minister Szydlo found guilty by Minister Błaszczak before the investigation began. It clearly shows what happens when the justice system is not independent and subject to politicians. This is, among others, the case. the wine of the burden of the courts. Why isn't Minister Ziobro releasing the vacancy? Secondly, why not strengthen the verification procedures for experts? Thirdly, does the PiS notice what the politicisation of courts leads to? To great human tragedies. Minister, why haven't Igor Stachowiak been killed so far? And that's your supposedly good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u157	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Members of the Civic Platform are throwing examples here, but I would like to say this: you have a short memory. Have you forgotten how the Legion fans were treated? Does the name Maciej Dobrowolski, arrested in 2012 and held in custody for 40 months, tell you something? These are your times, ladies and gentlemen. So don't judge, because you will also be judged. Art. 6 The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states that everyone has the right to a fair examination of his case by an independent and impartial court. He also has the right to expect his case to be dealt with honestly. In the cases we are talking about today, this law has often been broken. I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister have knowledge of whether the Ombudsman's actions have been taken in such cases? Did he come to such people with help? Has there been cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Justice in such situations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Law and Justice went to elections under the motto of repair of the Republic. Of course, there was the slogan of the bourgeois Poland in ruins, but let's say that even those who believe in this slogan today find out that you do not fix Poland, you destroy it actually. Similarly, with such a slogan, he went to the Kukiz election15. They do not have the possibility of direct destruction, but they serve you valiantly. I wanted to bring up two things. One thing most Poles know, for example, from a movie that was written on her canvas, entitled: The system is closed, inter alia. Paweł Rey and Lech Jeziorny from Krakow's Zakłady Mięsnych. Well, the prosecutor who then got the case, and it was in 2002 and 2003, a young district attorney named Andrzej Kwasniewski simply accused, without understanding what income, income or profit means. It didn't matter to him. And I'm not going to develop this case because everyone knows it, but I'd like to ask the Minister for written information, Minister, what is the career path of this prosecutor who caused the destruction of not only the plant, but also the lives of many people, good businessmen. And the second point is that I don't expect an answer, because I don't expect you to have anything to say about it. This applies, however, to the accusations of the doctors of the professors from Krakow who treated father Zbigniew Ziobra, the current attorney general of the Minister of Justice. It has to sound in this Seym, because this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's going on shows the scandal that the current authority is doing by subpoenaing the prosecution and the courts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is being listened to by students from the primary school in Marchwacz, the county kaliski. Welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nothing upsets a man as much as the need to pay for undeserved faults. I understand that the error is written into a human being, but can the same measure be measured by ordinary human errors and errors of a judge judging a sentence against an innocent man? No, because in the event of an unjust sentence, we destroy the life of this innocent man, we destroy his career, and there is no compensation that will compensate him for his mental and material loss. It is therefore important to consider what is the result of judicial errors, whether they result from intentional actions or simply from failure to learn. Therefore, should we not consider changing the way judges are trained? Should it not be established in which cases the right to pursue a legal profession should be deprived of the judges? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! So many cases - because it's not just a case of Mr. Command, it's a lot of other cases that are mentioned here and which I can mention - and from these cases there's an image of incompetent and badly functioning justice at both court and prosecution level. Minister, unfortunately, I must say that what is called judicial reform is merely the beginning of the process of necessary change. We together with a colleague Jachnik, with the Polish Team for the New Constitution, prepared two large conferences for the victims of the justice system in 2016. 1200 people from all over Poland arrived, two reports were produced, and unfortunately I have to say, Minister, that yes, the former Deputy Minister Mr.Warchoł was at one conference, but the interest of the Ministry in these topics, these problems and dialogue with the environments that come into contact with lawlessness was zero. No one asked us or anybody in the Ministry for these draft laws which were, and about the KRS, and about the system of common courts, did not consider the mechanisms which should eliminate this pathology from the courts. It's not like there's any punishment. Poland pays compensation, and the prosecutors and judges who accused in these cases made gross mistakes do not bear any responsibility. On the other hand, I would like to say something further, referring to the atmosphere that prevails here, and especially to the speeches made by you from the Platform. Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't present this disgusting partying in every case. This is about millions of citizens, the functioning of the system, and you're trying to bring everything down to the ruling majority. I would really appeal for this... [[Because most of them are ruining the system, sir.]] ...so we can just think about the problem, because the JOWs need to be introduced, single-mandate circles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and those party gangs from the Sejm to throw away, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u165	Thank you very much. I now ask that the representative of the applicants of Mr Jerzy Jachnik speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank some people for their substantive questions. I stress what Mr Sanocki said a moment ago: you cannot talk about the tragedy of people, in everything you see a party regiment, like, who, where to hit. Well, I made it clear at the outset: the judgments I gave, the errors I gave, relate to the cross-section of time since 2000 and even earlier. So let's not divide it like that, because we're not gonna settle anything. [[Applause]] Minister, that's what I didn't get from you, to be honest, no answer over and over again. Judgments are wrong, they will. And I mean what? We want this justice system - it was said just a moment ago by Janusz Sanocki - to continue in reforms, to encourage these courts to be for citizens, so that there is a complaint system in Poland. What do I get from the Disciplinary Chamber judges if they don't have someone to investigate? Minister, no. Let's get started... There is no one to complain to in Poland. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Emergency complaint.]] Okay, but you're the only ones who can do it, the Attorney General. We have requested that a group of Members be able to submit this. You blew it. But I need to give you two examples. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing, Minister, and here's a motion to oversee the District Attorney's Office in Bielsko-Biała. I'm saying, you're probably all familiar with the press because this case was very loud: church land trafficking, million-dollar crimes. Marek P., an SB officer, accused by the Gliwice Prosecutor's Office, has been at trial in Cracow for many years, the same man is sick, pretending to be sick, while through his right hand Mrs. Edyty P. sends constant notices to the District Attorney's Office in Bielsko and this District Attorney in Bielsko is pursuing people who testify against Mark P., fictitiously. On the way, I'm gonna... Minister, are you listening to what I'm saying to you or not? Do you know what I said now or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] Come on, Minister, let's take this seriously. Because I'm talking to you about something. And I want to be clear with you. The prosecution in Bielsko protects Mr. Mark P. and acts on his behalf - I'm telling you this, I'm telling you this clearly - through Edith P. And the other thing, ladies and gentlemen. You say things were different in your day. The short ruling of 14 November 2014 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mrs Jolanta O. - I don't want to say - ex-jury and attorney, acting on behalf of her client, falsified the order of the Supreme Court by pinning stamps on this decision. It's the 50 zlotys that just wash off to what's there. And now I'm gonna tell you what kind of punishment she's been given. On the basis of the article. 66, 67 conditionally forfeits criminal proceedings against Jolanta O. for the trial period of 1 year. Well, that's the punishment for your attorney, the former judge, who acts on behalf of her client against her, pretending to have filed the cassation and not filed it, and falsifying the order of the court to reject the cassation. [[Applause]] That's what the court order is for. People, what kind of justice do you want to defend, what kind of justice? [[Cassation has no effect on the sentence.]] Minister, I appeal again. The complaint system, the sub-control system, the psychics. Unfortunately, it's too much. I didn't want to go far anymore... My friends were asking questions. There can't be cases like this in a mental institution... I'm dealing with the guy's case now, he's in jail for six months, three committees sent him to a mental institution, no one's treating him, no one. The head of a mental institution gives itself, on its own responsibility, the opinion that he is healthy, and he is still sitting there in this mental institution in Kostrzyn. Therefore, it is simply impossible for such things to happen because we are losing confidence in the justice system. I came - I confess honestly - to the Sejm with a view to a good advance of the justice system. And this stage is behind us, and this is where I support you. But we also want courts and prosecutors acting on behalf of citizens, not political parties. [[Applause]] And I will consistently demand it all the time. And finally, I think after all the turbulence, - I also understand hurry, mistakes in haste, etc., etc. - the time has come to look again at certain things, to correct certain things, so that this justice system is for the citizens. Because as we're going to think today about this unfortunate law on the Supreme Court and the KRS, and we can't call a KRS like this law was being processed, and we've been yelling about it all the time... You should have slowed down a little bit. There's no one to call KRS, that's the problem. And there's gonna be a problem with the first president of the Supreme Court, 'cause [[♪ The bell ♪]] He has to be chosen by a number of judges. But that's not an excuse I'm talking about. The point is to correct our mistakes. On the other hand, I would expect a written reply in those cases that we reported, whether the Ministry was interested in this matter and what is its assessment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u167	Thank you very much. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u168	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would immediately ask your marshal to extend my speaking time, because I have a full file of questions and I just won't make it. To answer honestly, I need a little more time. I will first answer Mr Jerzy Jachnik's question. Mr President, we are carrying out reforms and you know it very well. If you're saying there's nothing going on with the citizens... [[I didn't say that.]] ...this is an emergency complaint, and you know it. In April there are regulations, completely new regulations. There will be a Disciplinary Chamber, which you know perfectly well. The question is that Professor Gersdorf, the first President of the Supreme Court, is calling a meeting of the National Judicial Council, and she does not want to convene or have not yet convened... I don't know if she doesn't want to, because she said it in a statement. I understand he knows what the formal legal basis is. The recipe says she's calling, so she should call. But why don't you ask Professor Gersdorf, the first president of the Supreme Court, not us. As for these two cases, including Bielska, we'll look into it. Besides, he knows me very well and he knows that I always try to answer questions as soon as possible. We are also conducting analyses in many of these cases that you have been talking about today. I am open, sir, there is no problem. Please write a letter to the Ministry of Justice, to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra or to any of the Deputy Ministers, and we will act in accordance with the procedures. I can't relate to a particular case because I don't know the evidence. Regarding Mr Buda's question, who asked whether perjury was being investigated and what the question of increasing penalties is - there is no longer a Member - we have increased the penalties, and indeed, for example. For perjury, for false testimony is punishment up to 8 years imprisonment, and before that it was 3 years, as I recall. We have also increased the penalties for false expert opinions to 10 years. This is a very, very radical increase in penalties, so I understand that in this respect the Member will be satisfied. The question of Mr Halicki. I was hoping, coming here, Mr Grabc, Mr Kropiwnicki, that we would not try to politicise the dramatic, tragic issue of Mr Tomasz Komenda. But you did it, in a few of your voices you did it. For two reasons, this case is outrageous. First of all, you're attacking sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. He can't defend himself today. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[You're talking about Zbigniew Ziobra...]] You guys said he didn't do anything today a few times. [[Voice from the room: Easy, easy. What's the excitement?]] On the other hand, you should really explain yourself because you are asleep. President Lech Kaczyński became the Attorney General in 2000 and the murder was carried out, the murder was committed in 1997. The arrest and temporary arrest have already taken place until you became Professor Lech Kaczyński's Attorney General, but you didn't mind attacking him. You're not interested in the fact that there have been several court cases in this case... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...that the Supreme Court ruled. [[Did he push or not push? It's a deal. It's a deal. Changed the D.A.? Facts.]] That wasn't what you said. You attacked the sleep. The president. But let's get back to chronology. Year 2010. Mr. District Attorney... Who was the minister of justice then? [[In 2001 Lech Kaczyński.]] In 2010, Mr Kwiatkowski, Minister Kwiatkowski. [[Attorney General.]] He was the minister of justice at the time. [[Who was the D.A.?]] Ask Minister Kwiatkowski why nothing was done when D.A. Biernat... [[Voice from the room: Seremet...]] Mr. Marshal, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u169	Okay, we're not at the bazaar. I'm asking you not to scream. And I'm also asking the Minister not to enter into discussions with the Platform. Mr. Minister, take it easy, too, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u170	I listened calmly to what you had to say. [[We just want answers to questions.]] In 2010, Mr. D.A. Biernat prepared notes on this case. And what did you do? [[Who was the Attorney General?]] Under the rug, under the rug. You didn't do anything about it in 2010, even though a man was in prison. The fact that there's been a change in the law that the Minister of Justice has become the Attorney General... This happened in March 2016. It was also this month, through its representative, that the family went to the Attorney General, and already in June, ladies and gentlemen, in June, a team of investigators was appointed. Today, this man is on the loose. It was conducted on a two-track basis. Thanks to prosecutor Zbigniew Ziobrze and thanks to prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski today Mr. Tomasz Komenda is at large. [[The voice from the room: The truth hurts.]] And you have carried out a brutal attack on the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. If you say there have been so many valid judgments of compensation in our time when law and justice and redress are ruled, then let's use the data. The year 2010, already cited - 32 people who have been legally ordered to make amends for the amount of 714... Sorry, 2013 - 32 persons, 714 thousand. zł. It was a time when you were in charge. This is much more than in 2017, 32 is more than 27. Year 2010, final settlement - 33 cases, more than 800,000. That's more than 10, isn't it? There was so much in 2017. Then why are you trying to break the data? [[What are you quoting now?]] That's right, unfortunately, you must be told. The baby knows, but you as members of the Platform don't know that. Mr Rometsky - the matter of Mr Gasparski. I know part of the case because Mr. Gasparski wrote to us, the Ministry of Justice. I've read this file, it's being analyzed at the control and analysis office, so-called. BKA, Ministry of Justice. We will answer what is going to happen with this case, because it is difficult for me to answer the speakers here on a case-by-case basis. Mr Duda - whether there has been a reflection of the judges in relation to various difficult situations, such as: when someone was wrongly punished in prison or when a person was wrongly arrested, and what Istitia is doing in this case. Well, what does Iustitia do? Iustitia goes to Brussels. Iustitia goes there to inform you that the rule of law is being broken in Poland. That's what Iustitia's doing today. This is a very valid question, extremely justified, why the associations in which the judges are present do not take this subject, because this is a very important issue, an extremely important issue. That is why reform is needed and that is why we are carrying out this reform. Mr Grabiec - our courts and our prosecutor's office. Yes, sir. You didn't even see the irony in my voice, you didn't even see the irony, because you talk about it very often. Yeah, but it's not my fault anymore. [[You put it in the D.A.'s laws.]] You didn't understand what I was talking about. On the other hand, I encourage you, like each of you on the Platform, all of you, to participate in meetings that sometimes take place. As Deputy Minister, I have the opportunity to participate in them. I see no problem that you as a Platform also participate in these meetings. Rooms are filled with people, sometimes there's not even a place to sit, because there's so many of them, and there's a discussion about the justice system. [[Voice from the room: What about the live discussion?]] How many meetings do you have? The answer is zero. Zero. [[And now you're gonna pass judgment? From behind a desk in Warsaw.]] You're not interested in society. Mr Skutecki - the case of Mr Broll. I do not know this case, but I do know that there will be a Senate initiative on safeguards. According to the new rules, to my knowledge, the person to whom the safeguard measure is applied will have to take part in the proceedings. This is obviously examined every 6 months. I know that there is an initiative by the Senate in this area, and I think we will be debating it here. Another Member - responsibility for the errors of judges. The answer is reform, the Disciplinary Chamber, which will rise because it hurt the public most. In a situation where we all see on the security footage that's at the gas station, that someone comes up and takes 50 zlotys, and then we hear it's just a distraction... That's a big problem. If someone steals a connector for 8 zlotys and then a judge like that - a thief judge - because that's the brutal truth - is supposed to judge cases against other people, that's the problem. That's why we're changing it. [[What about the minister... maybe he's eavesdropping? Minister, look at your own...]] Are you, Mr. Marshal... Just a few more answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u171	Mr Grabiec, do not interrupt. Minister, please take it easy, too, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u172	Mr Kropiwnicki... [[♪ The bell ♪]] - we have to clean it up after you, unfortunately, and to this day. I am the 24th month minister and still in areas where we come into contact with anything after your governments, there is a problem with something, e.g. IT problem. There was a problem with house cleaners, there was a commission, but of course you don't like it. [[Voice from the hall: But your time is up.]] Don't yell. You should have put these people in jail in your day. But you didn't. You didn't. And what you've been doing, we've already seen at the review committee's meetings. Mr Masłowski - psychological assistance. Yeah, that's a very important question. It's a possibility today. There is a Justice Fund, and it has more resources than the funds it had in previous years. It is a question of establishings, different types of penalties, fines that go to the Justice Fund. Within this solution e.g. The probation officer can direct a specific case and the psychologist can take care of certain people. So that the question is absolutely valid. There is a fund as a tool that can be used precisely in psychological assistance cases. I'm still on the subject of... Mr Polek - elimination of unfair sentences. As a general rule, this is done in the context of inter-institutional control, but there may be a situation that a judgment has been given as a result of a crime, and there is a specific provision to do so. It's not just about the official crime of art. 231 of the Penal Code, but also of a specific provision which states that if a judgment is given as a result of a crime and that such a situation cannot be ruled out, this provision will of course apply. Mr Myrcha - the issue of adversariality. This was also the case in another Member's statement. We have eliminated the adversariality because the court should have an active role. Someone who doesn't have the resources is an economically weaker party to the proceedings, and it can't be lost. Therefore, there is the pursuit of objective truth, and therefore there is this principle of objective truth. She's the key. The action of the court of law - what we have introduced, including to the end of adversariality - was what the people were waiting for. We did what the public expected. That's what's fair. Contradicativeity is unfair in our system, because our system is a continental system, and this is typical of Anglo-Saxon systems. So that would be a violation of the rules at all. Many times here we have explained why we have eliminated the most important elements of this adversariality - just for citizens, so that the economically weak do not simply lose on it. As for the Crown Witness, Mr Szramka, it is difficult to accept the liquidation of this institution. It's a weapon in combat, among other things. organized crime. But, of course, there is a human factor, so we can never rule out that there could be a situation in which due to internal settlements between individuals, for example, a coroner's witness. He's gonna try to lie to somebody that way. There are situations like this, but this institution... [[And time is unlimited, excuse me?]] You shouldn't have asked questions, Prime Minister. [[Voice from the room: You have to answer more closely.]] This institution is extremely important, positive in terms of its impact on the shaping of justice. As far as Mrs Czernow is concerned, I have already clarified the adversariality. Mrs Chasing, I would suggest that she write a letter on the bailiff she was talking about here because I do not know the case individually. If there was a bailiff error, of course we'll lean on the case at the Ministry of Justice. With regard to this issue - Mr Sitarski, Mr Bakun, it has appeared many times - whether there is a good amount of compensation awarded, of course, that compensation should be made for every minute wrongly spent in prison, in any case. Compensation doesn't always, compensation - always. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, five minutes are up.]] However, I would like to say that, of course, there is no way to determine a price list, a meter. Judges, well-educated judges, full of empathy, should know if a man has been in prison for many years, which his family is exposed to, lost his earning opportunities, lost the benefits of environmental ostracism, what is within his comprehension, according to civil law, because that's how he should be judged. This is just like in the case of a law that was tried here at one time - it is about compensation for those who are being repressed. That's also the question of how high it should be. The courts, of course, determine a certain amount, but take into account all the elements provided for in the system. Mrs Szymańska - whether the lawyer is responsible. Yeah, he's responsible for the damage to the client. If there is a contract between him and the client, the court will, of course, decide whether or not this responsibility is at stake here. Mr Parda - grossly low compensation, minimum compensation rate. The minimum rate cannot be accepted. He also called for this to be considered. It's hard to accept any price list or taxi driver here. Once again, in this case, I'm saying it's impossible to bring it into the system. The only problem is not the system. The problem is the human factor, most often, I say again. Mrs Płępek talks about independence, that it is we who have a problem with independence. No, ladies and gentlemen, you had a problem. It was in your day that you were a judge who was ready to serve politicians, wasn't it? True, Mr Myrch. [[No, it's not. What about Suwałki?]] That's what happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u173	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u174	He's been moved for punishment...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u175	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u176	...to another court. That's what happened. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u177	Okay, okay. Okay, quiet in the O.R. now. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet in the courtroom, I say. Minister... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...I'll let you finish if there's no party tours. I'm sick of it. Kukiz,15 proposed a substantive debate on those who were wrongly convicted. And please make a substantive reference to the remaining three questions, without party trips. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u178	Mr. Marshal, of course I'm trying to be substantive, but when it comes to issues of independence, it's hard for me to... [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Try harder.]] ...do not summon Here's the name of the judge at the disposal of the politicians and you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u179	Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u180	That's the substantive answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u181	...relax, Minister, answer the other three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u182	And since it was in the days of the Platform, it's not my fault anymore. [[Voice from the room: Don't...]] [[How's Suwałki? Are you okay in Suwałki?]] As far as Mr Lassota is concerned, you will receive an answer in writing as you wish. Mr Maciejewski - it is true, thank you for this statement by Mr Maciejewski, we cannot and should not be excused from the mistakes that have been made in times which concern the Civic Platform. These data that have been cited, as well as the Thomas Command case, what was in this whole case - honesty ordered us to explain it today. But we can't explain our predecessors' mistakes either. [[Especially Herbs.]] And Mr Sanocki, the last question - the question of further reform. Yes, we are preparing changes, among others. in the criminal procedure and there is, for example, a question concerning the provision that I have dealt with today, the issue of regression, Article. 557. I believe that this provision should be corrected, that it should simply be as transparent as possible. It also hurts if someone wrongly gives a ruling, and then suddenly it turns out that the taxpayer has to pay, does not pay for it the person who, for example. grossly infringes procedural or material law. Thank you for these questions. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u183	Thank you, Minister. Thank you for the debate. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u184	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Every now and then, we hear about mistrials. I would like to ask the Minister how and whether, in the past, the National Judicial Council in its previous composition reacted to such situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u185	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 44 hours 13]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen! Our meetings are attended by young people from the Third High School of General Education in Jaworzno, which we warmly welcome and greet. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws (prints Nos 2137 and 2245). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u186	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on State Medical Rescue and some other laws, prints No. 2137 and 2245. The Health Commission has set up a subcommittee to examine this law. The subcommittee looked at the law and made appropriate changes to it as a result of the discussion at one substantive meeting. The report was then adopted by the committee. This law provides for different dates of entry into force depending on its parts. On behalf of the committee, I ask for its positive acceptance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u187	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Anna Ciech has the floor... [[Czech.]] ... Czech - I am so sorry, Mrs Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the bill submitted to amend the Act on State Medical Rescue. The bill is the result of an analysis of the operation of the medical rescue system in relation to the operation of dispatchers, the role of dispatcher, the possibilities of the use of modern information technology by individual participants. The project also takes into account changes that have taken place since the entry into force of the Act on State Medical Rescue. Thus, with regard to medical dispatchers, the project reduces their number and therefore provides for the creation of multistational dispatchers, which will significantly improve the management of medical rescue teams and will bring tangible benefits mainly in the form of shortening the median time of arrival of emergency teams at the scene and their better use. The location of the medical office in the voivodships will in turn allow for the focus in one decision-making centre to carry out tasks from the emergency notification area and to maintain the personnel and infrastructure of the medical command support system. The proposed amendment is in line with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It is also envisaged to introduce a country-wide single IT system ensuring cooperation between voivodships in the provision of medical rescue teams. New solutions will improve the way in which CPR applications are accepted and handled. The implementation of these objectives is to improve the management of information on the health and life of citizens, ensure the smooth transfer of data between emergency services and public order, and contribute to the development of the rescue system. The use of these solutions will result in a rescue team at a given point closest to the site of the incident, also improve decision-making, in particular in crisis situations or in incidents with a large number of victims and terrorist incidents. Voivodeship will also provide psychological support to medical dispatchers provided to them by a psychologist employed there. It's a command support system. At present, the Act designates the Minister responsible for administration as providing maintenance and maintenance, and the Act decides that after three stages in 2019 the Minister for Health will take over. The National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue is an important institution. Established at the central level, it will ensure that all tasks are carried out: from those in the field of emergency notification in the rescue system, through courses for medical dispatchers and voivodship coordinators, it will also monitor the entire system. Voivodeship medical rescue plans. Here, too, is a good solution, restricting ourselves to the necessary information in these plans. We also have the opportunity to apply jointly for the implementation of medical rescue tasks by different units. And finally, a very important issue, making the medical emergency system public. The aim of this solution is to strengthen the impact of the state on the health safety of citizens, all who are in a state of sudden health or life-threatening situation. Publicisation is introduced because of the very important social interest of providing medical assistance in the face of a threat, regardless of the economic situation of the market. The provision of these benefits is particularly important at a time when there are so many risks. This is not only about sickness, injuries, but also about crimes, terrorist attacks and armed activities. This is very important. The publication will be carried out by entrusting the execution of contracts for the performance of tasks exclusively to specific entities, public entities, budgetary units and specific capital companies. The practice of lifeguards is also regulated and this is beneficial for the system in general. In view of the above information and opinions on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request the adoption of the bill in the version of the submission. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws, prints no. 2137 and 2245. I'm not going to talk about the details of the bill anymore, because my predecessor discussed exactly what her records were all about. It would seem that the course of action in the case of this law is good. The reduction in the number of medical dispatchers - this action has already been carried out since 2011 - seems to be deliberate and justified. On the other hand, the law contains provisions with which we cannot agree, rules which are presented by the Ministry with false justifications, such as. an article that talks about publicising state rescue activities. Ladies and gentlemen! In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry does not provide for the costs which Poland may incur in connection with the complaint of this article by the Kingdom of Denmark, because one of the entities that perform services for the State Medical Rescue is a company from the Kingdom of Denmark. We did not get an answer to the question whether they would be and what the financial consequences would be. It is also incorrect to justify that the loss of 135 teams and ambulances from the medical emergency system will result in the need to spend funds on the purchase of new equipment. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry states that there is no need to do so. It may not be necessary for the Ministry, but public units will be burdened with it... [[Patients.]] ...and patients. Nor can we justify why the established National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue is to be located in a unit which is only part of the entire system, i.e. in air rescue. There is no justification for this - the scope of the responsibilities that this national centre will have is so wide that it cannot be an entity that will be located at one of the elements of the whole system. Nor do we understand why, in a situation where there is a national post-graduate training centre in Warsaw, it is envisaged that a separate training centre for medical workers, a state-owned system, located just under the medical rescue system will be set up. For this reason, the Civic Platform Club is placing an amendment to this bill on the hands of the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u192	The amendments concern those reservations which I have just presented to you. Therefore, if these amendments are not accepted and such provisions remain, in particular the public record, the Civic Platform Club will vote against the provisions of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u194	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on State Medical Rescue was expected both by the medical community and by patients. The law that the High Sejm has been presented by the government can be judged differently. It has several records, I would say controversial, but it certainly deserves support for one reason - a clear decision, who will be completely responsible for medical rescue in Poland since the entry into force of this act, and it will be the government. As a general rule, as a Kukiz club15, we are not in favour of nationalisation in any sector, and medical rescue is, in addition to sometimes heroic mission to save human life, also simply economic activities. The government has decided to take full responsibility for medical rescue. This means eliminating from the system operators with the advantage of private resources, which today occupy more than 9% of this market. For a patient, a particular patient, this means that 135 ambulances are missing from the medical emergency system, and for a taxpayer it certainly means buying so many ambulances. However, this cost was not included in the Act at all. From the point of view of the patient waiting for assistance, the ownership structure of the entity that will assist him is completely irrelevant. The patient expects and has the right to expect professional, fast and effective assistance. Despite some doubt about ethical and legal exclusion from the system of entities that have made serious investments, the government's 100% responsibility for medical rescue seems to be a step in the right direction, and the Kukiz Poselski Club15 will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u195	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Act on State Medical Rescue is an ambiguous and unobvious project. Its records on the one hand raise the hopes of medical teams, on the other hand - concerns of the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to the compatibility of the project with EU law. The most important provision of the Act concerns the medical dispatcher. Ultimately, starting in 2028, in each voivodship there is to be one dispatch office, excluding Mazowieckie and Silesian voivodships, where two dispatchers are expected to open. We're talking about multistational fully equipped medical facilities. The modern view in this case is shared by the Minister of Health. We believe that this solution will improve the management of medical rescue teams and reduce the time of arrival at the scene. The law in force designates the Minister responsible for public administration as the body responsible for maintaining and providing maintenance of the State Medical Rescue Command Assistance System. We consider it appropriate to transfer these commitments to the area of competence of the Minister of Health, which will allow for more effective coordination of the process of medical assistance. A very good and necessary change is to include medical dispatchers and voivodship medical rescue coordinators in the protection provided for public officers. There is no doubt here - it is unacceptable for patients, persons calling for help or persons accompanying them to insult, threaten or commit physical attacks to help them. The aim of the proposed measures is to strengthen the impact of the State on the health safety of citizens who are in a life or health situation. It would be difficult to oppose such a stated objective, but, as the Ministry of Health notes, we are dealing with public disclosure in view of the important social interest of providing medical assistance in the event of a threat. In view of this interest, the Act is intended to make it independent of the economic situation of health service providers on the market by preventing private parties from taking part in the market. According to the Commission's data in the case of Poland, the share of private entities in the health service provider market is 8%. It is about 20 companies of foreign origin. The publication is to be carried out by entrusting the implementation of contracts for the performance of the tasks of medical rescue teams only to medical entities in the form of independent public health care establishments, budgetary units and capital companies with at least a majority share of the State Treasury, local government units or public medical institutions. Such provisions may raise and raise reasonable doubts as to the potential breach of free market rules. Medical paramedics set up the Ministry of Health ultimatum: either the bill will be passed, or Poland will face a mass strike. It would affect citizens in extreme, life-threatening and health-threatening situations. Therefore, due to the importance of the solutions being examined and the real important social interest Modern is willing to vote in favour of the bill. Indeed, the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform will significantly improve this bill and then we will be able to vote in accord with our conscience in favour of this law. So that I hope that these amendments will pass at the additional committee meeting, and then we will be able to support this law with a calm conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u198	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are proceeding, we are continuing the legislative process in connection with the draft law on medical rescue presented by the government. The rapporteur and my previous speakers have already discussed the issues arising from the objectives of this project, both at the previous meeting and at committee meetings. The justification has been analysed and, we read in the explanatory memorandum, the reasons why this regulation has to be submitted. On the one hand, It is good that the government takes responsibility for the functioning of this area, for helping, for caring for health. It's a very important area. I think that this project can be adopted, because it outlines areas of action, indicates the time frame, talks about the new structure, so about the vertical structure, the vertical organisation, and cooperation and cooperation in horizontal configuration, it is about the organisation of activities. There's also talk of necessity and care... Operators are identified to ensure that technical equipment and equipment are equipped with new communication techniques, communication techniques, coordination of operations. All of this is, of course, aimed at shortening the time of arrival of ambulances, ambulances or teams for needy help. There's a speech. also to improve professional qualifications, the requirements that applicants must fulfil for certain functions and positions. Nevertheless, I share some of the comments made by my previous speakers on the issue of publicity. I think the Minister will address this, if not at today's sitting, at the committee meeting. It is not about paying attention, but it is about clarifying doubts and we can be sure that we will adopt records that will not interfere with other legal acts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The procedure over this law was practically to be completed by December 2017. It was supposed to be in a new shape this year. It was also intended to include a provision on the possibility of annexing contracts with the National Health Fund. Now what? The contracts end on 30 June, so I think we do not have much time left to complete the procession, reach an agreement and adopt a specific provision that will allow the annexation of contracts, otherwise the National Health Fund will be forced to announce competitions. The question remains whether our entities providing these services are prepared for the competition, whether the national fund is prepared for this and what is further possible with changes in the voivodship plans. I think that we will explain these questionable issues today, the Minister will outline his point of view for us here, and there will be no concern that this provision on annexation will not become legal and will not be applicable. I believe this will end well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u199	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since we're proceeding on this bill in such an immediate manner, I have a question and I've also written it in writing. Why didn't we deal with the very important thing in the process of dealing with the matter of the medical emergency government? The government of physiotherapists, which arose despite the great protests on the part of the Law and Justice, proved to be 100% true. We already know today that the standard of services has risen when it comes to physiotherapy in Poland. Probably the same thing would have happened when it came to medical rescue. That's my first question. Is the government planning to work on this project, and when, since this opportunity has already been lost? Here's another thing. What really motivated the Ministry to draw up this law? Why entities that may, so to speak, run for medical rescue must have at least 51% public funds, in the sense of a public entity? Will the perturbations in the medical rescue market not only result in shortages of personnel and equipment in some places in Poland, but also will this not result in compensation for the governments of other countries resulting from higher orders? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u201	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister, and through the Minister, it is basically a question to the government, why in all the proposed laws that we are investigating recently, in the area of health, you are eliminating public entities, why they are disturbing you so much. The first such law concerned the network. In addition to the network and the possibility to receive lump sums, certain medical facilities remain. The same issue now is rescue, where public entities are actually excluded. We know it's about 135 ambulances. This is mostly money, because you will have to buy new ambulances, so spend public money on what already worked in the system. The question is, isn't it a mismanagement? Secondly, if we have private entities in the system, after all they are also controlled, they are to meet the requirements, criteria to get the contract. There is a possibility of supervision and control by the National Health Fund. Maybe we need to improve the law somewhere so that the rights and obligations are the same, but why are these entities thrown out of the system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u203	Thank you. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister: Will the Medical Rescue Act increase the safety of patients who are forced to use emergency services under certain circumstances? Second question. Will it increase employment security and job security for people employed in medical rescue? Finally, the third question. Will the public emergency medical system be included in the state crisis protection system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill definitely increases the responsibility of medical rescuers. From the patient's point of view, it must be made clear that we patients want medical rescuers to be as prepared as possible for such responsible activities as they do. Hence my question: Minister, or the government, Minister, are you considering introducing second degree studies into medical rescue? It is a question asked on my behalf, I also patients who will have to use this type of emergency action, but it is also a question asked by medical rescuers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u207	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the effects of the changes in this project on ambulances that are currently provided by private operators who will fall out of this system. That's 135 ambulances. The explanatory memorandum prepared by the Ministry of Health does not provide for additional funds for the purchase of ambulances, and at the committee meeting the Minister stated that public funds would not have to be involved in restoring this potential for medical rescue teams. Therefore, I ask: How does the Ministry want to recreate this state and possibly at whose expense, so that life, health or safety of any patient will not be endangered even for a moment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a slightly broader question, more to the government, although I hope that the Minister, as a representative of the government, will be able to give me an answer. Minister! Where do you come from with this, I don't know, fear or dislike of private entities, in every industry? In terms of education, from schools to universities, in terms of health care, from individual practices to hospitals. What's bothering you, privates? I'm asking you to answer me, because I'd like to understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed amendment is in line with the recommendations of the NIK published in 2014 following an inspection carried out in the Małopolskie voivodship. At the time, NIK recommended action to locate the medical dispatcher in structures controlled by the state administration, which is particularly important due to the role that medical dispatchers play during medical operations. This law, you can say, is fulfilling these recommendations. But I have a question about education and I ask you to answer: How will the law affect the process of pre- and post-graduate education in the professions of medical rescue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: Did the Government of the Republic of Poland conclude an agreement with the Kingdom of Denmark concerning the violation of the international mutual investment protection agreement in connection with the implementation of the Act on Nationalization of State Medical Rescue? According to this information, there is no agreement. Is there, therefore, financial resources guaranteed in the compensation budget and they will go into tens of millions of zlotys? So please answer: Is this an agreement and if it is not, is there any means to implement this compensation? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You don't know the bill. This has nothing to do with nationalization.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u215	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Human life and health are the highest values. The proposed draft law on State Medical Rescue is necessary to provide the highest quality medical services in medical rescue. Minister! I have a question: How will the bill affect the emergency notification system? How are dispatchers planned and in what area? Will this bill have an impact on shortening the time to reach the patient? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u217	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u218	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Act on State Medical Rescue aims at nationalising medical rescue. It provides for an obligation to employ members of medical rescue teams and medical dispatchers on the basis of a contract of employment. The amendment does not foresee wage increases or additional financial incentives. However, there is an increase in the responsibility of a paramedic. Paramedics are public servants. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Will they, as public officials, receive additional social benefits related to public service? Or, for example, Will they get the anniversary awards, benefits and family benefits, or will they have the opportunity to retire early? Otherwise, it will be difficult to find people willing to work in ambulance teams. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Marian Zembala, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want you to nationalize everything. We're about to have a socialist republic of the PiS. It's going that way. You're able to draw up a bill that throws everything in the trash. I would like to draw attention to why the foundations that provide medical protection in the field of medical rescue will not be able to carry out their activities. I would like to point out that there is an organization called the Maltese Union, which has been operating for 900 years, helps the sick and the disabled, is a bit older than the Law and Justice. It is by this law that you have deprived the Malta Medical Service Foundation of its ability to operate, which is a global organisation that carries out such activities. Second question. If this foundation is not able to perform medical protection of various events, what will you do on the next visit of the Holy Father, since you had to ask us as the Order of Malta for medical protection of this event? Wouldn't you also allow this foundation to take private orders for medical protection and medical protection for private events? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u221	Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Do you think that a nationalized lifesaving service, or medical rescue, is worse than a public service? To the Minister I have this question: Is health safety easier to control and secure with the help of state rescue or non-state rescue units? I ask: Will a detective replace a police officer because I think it's a very similar service to the police, the fire department, and should be nationalized? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u223	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're experiencing a variety of facilities when it comes to rescue. I have a simple question: How will the changes we make improve patient care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u225	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[How are the dental offices?]] [[Why, does your tooth hurt?]] All in good time, also my answers. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for your opinions and your questions. In my reply I will try, hopefully, to dispel your doubts and convince you that this project is right and will be very beneficial for Polish patients. Ladies and gentlemen! In many of your speeches there is a question of publicising, nationalising medical rescue, called by your nationalisation. [[Because it's true, Minister.]] If we understand the word 'nationalisation', none of you should use it here because it means a completely different situation. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to medical rescue systems, solutions are diverse both in the European Union and in the world. The European Union allows solutions that are beneficial to people in a particular country. We have examples of Scandinavian countries, where rescue services are state services, public services, and in some European Union countries, of course, we have rescue systems that are based on NGOs or private systems. The Law and Justice Government has analysed the medical emergency situation, its functioning, all pros and cons. We've made a decision to nationalise this system. The argument in favour of this fact is, among others. close cooperation with other emergency services that operate in the country's rescue system and defence system, namely the guard, with the police. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Privates cannot cooperate.]] No one has any doubts, no one questions that these services should be public and public. Ladies and gentlemen! During the discussion there were also specific questions and I will try to answer them. Mr Miller's question concerning the simulation of costs was raised due to the termination of contracts with private companies, including foreign companies. I would like to answer that all contracts expire on 30 June 2018. If we had left the same legal status, competitions would have taken place and no entity - either public or private - would have guaranteed that such an agreement would have been signed. Therefore, it should be presumed that there is no reason, there is no reason to claim any costs or compensation. In order to explain this situation to the end, I would like to quote the correspondence that took place between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland and the Danish embassy. Although these agreements expire, ongoing talks between the ministries of both countries and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark have proposed to conclude an agreement in the form of an exchange of diplomatic notes on the end of the so-called "execution." contracts - here is a specific name of the company. Following the national procedure for concluding international agreements on 16 October 2017, the Danish party was given a note to accept the Danish proposal at the Embassy of the Republic of Poland. Both of these notes, Polish and Danish, together constitute the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. The Act of ratification on the Polish side was adopted on 8 February 2018, print No 2161, and is transferred to the Senate. So I think that at this point all the doubts about the costs that could possibly arise as a result of the termination of this cooperation have been resolved. At the same time, the Ministry... There was also such concern, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs questioned the compatibility of this project with EU law... The final opinion of the Foreign Minister is positive. Further questions related to the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue, which will be created on the basis of this law. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, the training of medical rescuers, medical dispatchers or medical coordinator doctors is carried out by various entities, including many private entities. These trainings are not coordinated, they are not standardised, they are often not monitored. In view of the above, as this concerns such a sensitive area of health care, which is medical rescue, we have decided to set up a National Monitoring Centre on Medical Rescue, which will carry out tasks in favour of all professionals who participate in the provision of medical rescue services. Can't you? Was it on the basis of the Medical Personnel Training Center? We've been analyzing this situation. In order for this to be carried out at the centre, we would have to bear exactly the same financial effort, the same physical costs in order to create such an opportunity. Therefore, after the analysis, we decided to create a completely new structure that will be involved in education and courses for dispatchers, especially since the implementation of these courses takes place under specific conditions, on simulators, requires appropriate equipment. That is why such a decision has been taken. There was a question about the ambulances, whether the ambulances would disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, emergency plans specify in detail how many ambulances and how many medical rescue teams operate and operate in our country. On this basis, competition proceedings will be organised in which the entities referred to in the Act will take part. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: But you have to buy new ones.]] Therefore, there is no concern that the number of rescue teams will decrease or that they will disappear at all. Of course, the bill gives you the opportunity if you read it. If, in the first competition procedure, an entity wishing to carry out such benefits does not apply in the operational area concerned, it is possible to carry out another selection in the second selection procedure, another competition procedure in which private parties may participate. We anticipate this possibility for a period of 2 years. There was a question about the extension of contracts. Indeed, under the current legal provisions, if we had not introduced a provision extending the existing agreements by the end of December, these agreements would indeed have ended on 30 June and we would have had to announce further proceedings at this point, actually at this point in time. Therefore, the Act contains this provision extending the contracts until 31 December 2018. That was the question Mr Kotowski asked. Mrs Gądek then drew attention to the immediate procedure for the process of this project. Here I would like to remind you that this project has been being examined since 2016, has been widely discussed in committee and subcommittees, where we have given detailed explanations. That's what happened. Last year. Therefore, it is difficult to recognise It's for instant mode. What effect will the law have on medical personnel? That is what Mrs Gądek asked. So here this impact will be only positive. Firstly, as regards pre- and post-graduate education, this is regulated in detail. Pre-diplomatic education standards will be defined. This is particularly important for medical rescue workers. At the moment, there is a certain degree in post-graduate education, and this is a profession that does not have a standard of pre-graduate education. In the case of doctors or nurses, this is precisely defined. There will also be standardized post-graduate training, so it will certainly benefit workers here. The special benefit, I think, will be that these trainings will simply be free. Until now, medical rescue staff, medical rescue, had to pay for these trainings in general. Several times, the question was why we eliminate private entities. Mrs Malecka-Libera referred here to a network of hospitals which, in your opinion, eliminated private entities. By the way, because this is not the subject of this project, I would like to explain that the network absolutely does not affect the entity, whether it is public - it is the ownership state - or private state. The whole point of entering the network was the criteria that should be met by these hospitals, and proof of that is that many private hospitals are online. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: What about ambulances?]] It's a guarantee issue. I've already told you that no one's ever guaranteed a contract before. Even if there were legal proceedings, it should also be borne in mind that a contract will not be signed with specific entities in the competition procedure. Mrs Hrynkiewicz asked if safety would increase, because this is the most important and that is why this law is created. Of course, by standardising education processes, the quality of services provided will be improved. The travel time is reduced because the command support system will be a unified system. As far as acceptance of applications is concerned, this law will safeguard surrogacy. So far, each dispatcher is functioning separately, we don't have a backup mechanism. Right now, this bill is gonna put it in place and we're gonna have full security. In case of failure or any incident in the call dispatcher, they are automatically transferred to the next one and there is a guarantee of replacementability. More questions. Who's gonna secure the rolling stock? Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion on this project took place for at least several months, and we spoke primarily with the community of people employed in the field of medical rescue, with the Association of Medical Rescue Employers. We have carried out analyses and a declaration, in writing, of the Association of Medical Rescue Employers, that these entities are able to secure those areas which have so far been secured by private entities. However, if there were a situation that in some area we would not have a willing entity who wanted to secure these benefits, as I said at the beginning, it is an opportunity to conduct another procedure, in which commercial entities may also participate as private entities. Mrs April asked about the standards of education. I think I've already answered here. Of course, pre-graduate and post-graduate education standards will be developed and free of charge. Another question. Will medical dispatchers, when they become voivodeships, benefit from an additional salary? Yes, of course, there will be an internship allowance paid, there will be an increase in salaries according to inflation rates, there will be a 13, i.e. all the privileges that will apply to employees employed in the public administration. Mrs Krynicka asked about the dispatcher. Indeed, multi-station dispatchers will be created, one dispatching station at 200,000. residents, one dispatch office in one voivodship, in Mazowsze and Silesia there will be two dispatchers. This, as I said, will allow us to take calls more efficiently, to handle it more efficiently and to shorten the period, the response time to the call. Patients should receive help much faster than they have been. So that I tried to answer those questions you asked. [[What about the Maltese union?]] Of course. The law does not affect cooperation with non-governmental organisations, including Maltese services, because it does not touch this problem, so it does not have the slightest influence. We encourage all organisations to cooperate, because I understand that the Member has asked in the context of such extraordinary events, the organisation of various kinds of events which require more strength and resources. The law does not in any way refer to cooperation. On the contrary, we will certainly encourage all NGOs to cooperate in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u227	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u228	Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for all the questions that have been raised during the debate and for the comprehensive and precise answers of the Minister. I would also like to explain a few things once again. On the occasion of this law, there are no threats to, for example, the Maltese Union or other NGOs, and this debate concerns one foreign entity from one particular country, which was mentioned today in the debate. Members, of course, have the right to be interested in this subject or even to make amendments in the interests of this entity, but it is worth making this clear. It is also worth saying that there is no question, as the Minister said, of any nationalisation, because no actor, including in other competitions, organized by the National Health Fund or at all of any competitions related to health protection, is certain before entering the competition that this competition will win and be a beneficiary. Therefore, after the expiry of the existing contracts - they will not be interrupted during the course - public entities will continue to work and operate unless, because there is such a reservation in the Act, no one will report in the area concerned. Then it is possible for non-public entities to continue to function for a certain period of time. Finally, it is worth to say that this period during the work of the subcommittee and then the committee was extended by another six months, because according to the government's submission of this border date - I ask the country that asked if they were worried about it - it was 1 July this year. She has been moved by another six months, which means that the limit date is 1 January next year. And finally, something that we should all have in common: concern for the patient's safety. Ladies and gentlemen, the sooner this law is adopted, the greater the patient's safety, because it not only concerns the mentioned entity or the State Medical Rescue, but also regulates many issues related to State Medical Rescue, such as IT systems. A smooth and quick adoption of this law will allow us to maintain liquidity on the occasion of other changes which are included in this law, so that there is no perturbation so that patients are safe, because I think that all of this should go on and on all of this we should care about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u229	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families (print No. 2294). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Andrzej Rozenk to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I'm here because we managed to raise $250,000. signatures under the citizens' bill, but we collected these signatures because the Polish Sejm had previously passed a legal bubel, which resulted in the death of 37 people so far. Therefore, I would like to ask you to celebrate at the beginning a minute of silence for those who have left as a result of the Act of 16 December 2016. [[Some of the gathered get up, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much. [[A voice from the room: Minister, something like that.]] These 37 deaths I'm talking about are fully confirmed information. These are the information that is collected in the Federation of Uniform Service Associations of the Republic of Poland. Each of them was confirmed by the families of those who left. These are suicides, these are heart attacks, these are strokes. Sometimes people refuse to take food, sometimes they refuse to take medication. It is horrible that politicians in Poland are killing people. I represent $250,000. people who have dared to sign the citizens' bill to withdraw this disgraceful bill of 16 December 2016. In order for you to understand what is going on, I must go back to 1990. There's Minister Henry Majewski up there. [[Applause]] He will surely testify as it was in 1990, when Solidarity took over. The Minister was then Krzysztof Jan Kozłowski, and the Deputy Minister was Andrzej Milczanowski. They're both opponents with a great card. They, seeing the exodus of militiamen and servants, called on these officers to refrain from leaving the service. They promised that if they were clean, if they did not do anything wrong in the past, the Polish state would treat them as any other citizen and guarantee that they would be the same officers as those who would be admitted after 1990. In order to prove that such an offer has been made, we have more than just a certificate from the Minister. We also have a notarial statement by Minister Andrzej Milczanowski, who is not with us today due to his medical condition. That's what happened. It was then that free Poland asked these people to provide their services to the newly created country. These people have decided to do it. Today, it's the consequences. Today, this country calls them the oppressors. Today the state claims that they served some totalitarian state, even though some of them served in modern Poland after twenty years. Some of them retired this year, mid-last year, January last year, and yet they are called oppressors. Then came the sad year 2009 for uniformed services. Unfortunately, the Platform voted then a law reducing the pensions of uniformed services. It was an unthinkable act. At that time, there was a general opinion among all lawyers that it was simply a legal issue. That was really the opinion of all wise lawyers. And then there was this sentence that I would like to quote to you. You can guess who is the author of this sentence: Prime Minister Tusk and Minister Schetyn want to take uniforms as another social pension rights group, which have so far been one of the motivations for a difficult and often dangerous service. The Minister responsible for security who undermines the foundations of his department, disorganizing the work of the services responsible for the security of citizens, the minister who takes away the acquired rights, without guaranteeing anything in return, undermines the security of Poles. Today I want to make this very clear once again. Police officers, firefighters, Border Guard officers, Government Protection Bureau, Prison Service, professional soldiers of the Polish Army must have the guarantee that the country they serve keeps their agreements. This is a quote from the then Deputy Minister Jarosław Zieliński, who is present here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Respect, Minister. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] These wise words, we must appreciate, have unfortunately not been appreciated by the Constitutional Tribunal. Prof. Rzepliński, who is today a defender of democracy, unfortunately at the Constitutional Court he made such a reasoning that this law is legal, consistent with the Constitution. This law has come into force. But it's nothing, it's 2016, December 16th, a memorable date, because this was not where the Sejm was held, it was in the column room. At that time, it was in indefinite legal circumstances, because it is not known who counted the quorum, and it is not known who voted and how it was not a roll call vote, it was the law which led to the death of 37 people. Why do we believe that this law is unconstitutional and undermines the fundamentals of the law? Well, this law, first of all, assumes collective responsibility. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, namely the PiS, has played the role of the court. He sentenced 55 grand in absentia. people, writing in this bill, that these are the oppressors who served the totalitarian state. Second reason. This law rightly takes away the acquired rights. There can be no such thing in a democratic state that a citizen is dating something, and then someone comes and breaks this agreement unilaterally. This law also introduces something unusual, namely the upper threshold of retirement. This upper threshold is PLN 1716. And now imagine the officer who left the ABW in January 2017. He's a 50-year-old man. He goes to the bank, gets a good job there and makes a contribution to the ZUS, pays large contributions, but it has nothing to do with his pension, because this bill assumes that he will always have a pension no higher than PLN 1716. I mean, it's a clear lawless thing. Finally, it is difficult not to mention this, although sometimes it sounds infantile, there is an old Roman rule which says that contracts are kept, pacta sunt servanda. These agreements have been concluded, among others. by Minister Kozłowski, but also by the whole state, because on behalf of the State Minister Kozłowski performed, and not on behalf of his own, they were not kept. I also want to face up in this room with all the lying propaganda policies that have been launched around this bill. It's not true that those retired uniforms had a pension of 20,000 in advance. zł. The average pension of people covered by this law before its introduction was PLN 2180. This is the information from a pension establishment under the responsibility of the Home Minister. It is not true that any social justice has been achieved and that these pensions have been reduced to an average. That's not true. Most people in this pension receive PLN 854, which is the lowest pension allowed in Poland, and I will add, by the way, that these people have received decisions in which ZER calculates their pensions at PLN 100, PLN 70, PLN 300. Yeah, they just get this 854 zloty because the state is gracious and predicts this is exactly the lowest pension. Nor is it true that any privileges are received. In the case of uniforms, we are talking about a separate pension system, because they serve rather than work. The service is different from work 24 hours a day, and it's different that you risk your health, your life, and you have, I apologize for colloquialism, messed up family relationships. For this, the State offers these people compensation in the form of a different pension scheme, so it is not a privilege. If that's what anybody thinks, let them go, serve on the street and chase bandits. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: You have to have the courage to...]] Who is involved in this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is commonly referred to as the dehubber bill. The UB was liquidated in 1956. There are no UB officers who have lived so far, at least they are so few exceptions that it would not be worth making laws for them. This law concerns, ladies and gentlemen, widows and orphans, once again: widows and orphans, veterans, former athletes, passport officers, PESEL-based builders, prisoners guarding criminals, BOR officers, among others. They protected the Pope or the WOP soldiers who guarded our borders. Yes, among the 55,000. decisions made actually are also service people, it is true. I want to talk about them now. Most of you have heard of the operation Samum, probably most of you know as much as you saw in the film by Władysław Pasikowski. But let me remind you that thanks to the bravado action of our intelligence officers, six CIA officers, a DIA and an NSA were rescued from Iraq. They've been taken out of Iraq through our special ops. They were threatened to die there. This action was successful because at that time the Iraqi service trusted our services, treated our services as friends, our country as a neutral and even friendly country. This action was a terrible cheek to the Iraqi service, a monstrous, unforgivable thing, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, revenge has come. This is the first time I've said this in public because no one knows it. The first one was killed by Andrzej Jarosław Hoss, legalization name: Talar. The Avengers captured him in 1995 in Libya. A year later, on October 25, 1996, Jacek Jerzy Bartosiak, legalization name: Pushkarski, was killed in Lebanon. Edmund Żurawski, legalization name: Muddy, died last in 1999 in Iraq. These three deaths, apart from the operation Samuma, because these are officers who took part in the operation Samuma, have one more thing in common: all these three heroic Polish intelligence officers would be deprived of retirement today and would be called perpetrators. By the way, I would like to remind you that thanks to this operation, the Americans gave Poland $16.5 billion in debt. Another Polish intelligence officer, Wienczysław Antczak, legalization name: Iskirski, would also be included in the Repressive Act. This heroic Polish intelligence officer serving as secretary of the Polish embassy in Thailand saved nearly 2.5 thousand. human lives by organizing their efficient evacuation during a terrible tsunami in 2004. Today Antczak is dead, so he does not know that, according to the authors of this law, he is the torturer of the totalitarian state. One more example. Mariusz Kazan, legalization name: Czarski, great officer of Polish intelligence. As you know, Polish intelligence conducted an incredibly efficient operation that helped Poland enter the European Union in 2004 under very favourable conditions. One of the most important officers who performed this operation was Mariusz Kazan, by the way, the favorite of President Lech Kaczyński. As you know, he died in a disaster near Smolensk. This was probably the biggest loss for Polish intelligence after 1990. Kazan as a graduate of the Department I Ministry of Intelligence Personnel Training Center would be included in the Repressive Act today, and various PiS media would call him a torturer. These five people, five separate stories, each of which is suitable for an excellent sensational film, are our heroes. They gave their lives on duty. They're spoken of as beatings, murderers, oppressors, bandits and traitors. Piotr Wróbel, a policeman who worked on the Pruszkow Mafia, was subject to this law only because he chose an officer's school in Legionów and graduated from this school in 1989. He fought the Pruszkow Mafia with great dedication. Today the state stole his pension. Wojciech Raczuk, lieutenant of the Department of Criminal Civil Militia in Biała Podlaski. In 1986, he pursued one of the most dangerous criminals at that time. Chased criminal Józef Korycki was a ruthless murderer, shot [[♪ The bell ♪]] to Raczuk with automatic weapons, and Raczuk received six bullets. If, Mr. Marshal... Marshal, may I have the extension, please? [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u231	Yes, but please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u232	I'll do my best. That policeman in critical condition went to the hospital. No one believed he was gonna make it. His colleagues moved him to a better job so his widow would have a little more money. It was an esbec job. Raczuk survived, is an invalid group II. After 35 years, he turned out to be a torturer. As a result of this law of 2866 zł disability pension, which he had, he now receives 854 zł. That's not even enough for him to get his meds. She's upstairs with your overdogs. Danuta Leszczyńska, Head of Section for the fight against narcotics crime [[Applause]] Department of Criminal Police Command in Szczecin, which resigned from service in 2009. She's spent her whole life fighting drug crime hard. Today, the state is punishing her. For what, am I asking? Like I said, 37 deaths are screaming, that's the cry of this community for great help. You have to help them. The state cannot be helpless in such a situation, it cannot look at such a disaster. The appeal path for these people doesn't practically exist. All the appeals that have been addressed to the district court lie and wait for the unknown. Appeal in 8a mode, i.e. so-called. Act of grace, 8,000. They're in the Home Office, no one's answering them. These are old people. They won't live to see justice. At this rate, they're just gonna die before anything happens. Ladies and gentlemen, Igor Stachowiak died in the Wrocław police station because the officers used tasers to bully him. Is this beastly act to be condemned? There it is. Of course it is, just as damned is the murder of Fr. The ashes. But should the crimes in Stachowiak be the responsibility of all those who serve in the police force today? Is every cop a murderer and a degenerate over the police station in the bathroom? [[Applause]] [[I'm sure Minister Zieliński should answer.]] This question is so idiotic that it is so embarrassing to ask it, but based on this logic, all former officers were sentenced to deprivation of acquired rights and disgrace. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't expect any sympathy or understanding from you, but I expect decency. I'm asking you to reject propaganda information and find out who this bill really is about and what the consequences are. Remember, retaliation is not punishment, revenge is not justice. Before joining the parliamentary mandate, all of you took a vow with the content: I pledge solemnly as a Member of the Polish Parliament to carry out duties with integrity and diligence towards the nation, to safeguard the sovereignty of the country, the welfare of citizens, to observe the legal order of the Republic of Poland. Many of you have added: So help me God. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to treat the bill we have tabled in accordance with the vows we have made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u233	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kalet, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present the position of my club vis-à-vis the citizens' draft law amending the law on pension provision for uniformed services, in short, by calling it a de-abbection law. [[Unlawful.]] High Izbo! When this project came in on 11 January this year. I thought it was some kind of joke, a grim joke, but it's not a joke. In short, this project aims to restore old pension rights to uniformed services, and even to raise them. The argument that we have just heard is growing to some absurdity, historical absurdity. [[That's got to be a moron.]] He's coming back again... Did you say that to me? [[Do you listen to yourself sometimes or not?]] Did you say that to me? [[Speak, man, speak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u235	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u236	Again, rhetoric about the harm that the Polish state has done to former security officers returns. We hear about drama, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Of course, about drama, in quotes, people who claim that they are now unable to live for 2000 PLN out of retirement. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: 800!]] [[Voice from the room:...premium!]] We hear voices that the retirement of those who took up work... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u237	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u238	...in the former Civic Militia or the Security Service or the security camera and they had no idea that they were working in institutions that oppressed Polish citizens... There were also civilian workers employed, who are now guilty of God's spirit, because they simply did not know where they were employed and what the profits they received were. High Izbo! The Sejm of the current term of office has set up a special committee to examine the so-called. Amber Gold scandals. [[The voice from the room:]] The witnesses who appear before her use a very similar rhetoric for this civic project. [[Then put an abortion on it.]] They didn't know, they didn't remember, they had no idea what they were doing or for what purpose. [[Voice from the room: Strike women down.]] Don't Members see similarities in these two situations? [[You don't know what you're saying.]] High Seym! When the memorable 16 December 2016 Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted the law on the reduction of uniform pensions, there was long-awaited historical justice. [[Touchdown, applause]] As parliamentarians of the true Polish right hand we could go to the streets of Polish cities... [[With Peterovich!]] [[With Peterovich under the arm.]] [[Voice from the room: And Krasulski yet.]] ...we could look into the eyes of Polish heroes, oppositionists, underground people and solidarity, because we knew we had done something that had to be done for a long time. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowicz!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u239	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u240	We ripped these people out of social humiliation. When one of the Polish actresses announced that communism had ended in Poland on 4 June 1989, she did not know how much more to do so that it could really happen. [[You've got to get rid of Peter's.]] This awareness, how hard the road ahead, didn't have many of us. Nor did we know that many people who were then trusted would turn out to be mere traitors. 'Cause where are the people today who have been able to get through all these years... [[And where is Peterovich?]] ...to clarify the case and to indicate the true power of death. Fr. George Popieluszko? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: That's what courts are for, not parliamentarians.]] Where are those whose actions have caused that the miners of Uncle and the shipbuilders of Pomerania have not been identified? [[Krasulski.]] Mrs. Marshal! Now I'd like you to have the opportunity to stand up and honor the memory of the victims murdered by the oppressors with a minute's silence. Let's get up! One minute of silence. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Your friends are gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u241	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Piotrovich, show me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u242	Get up! Get up!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u243	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all [[Voice from the Chamber: Punishment for the Member.]] [[Voice from the room: We're up.]] I'm asking you to calm down, and I'm asking you to... [[Game in the O.R.]] It's been a minute. Please, sit down. And I'm asking you not to escalate the tension.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u244	Where are those who should condemn the criminal activity against the Polish people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As it turns out, they are often on the side of those who have done these wicked things. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: End!]] So how do these seemingly beautiful independence resumes look like? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u245	Proceed to the end, sir. Please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u246	Your marshal, literally half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u247	No, sir, finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u248	Maybe they weren't so beautiful, so flawless. [[Voice from the room: Time's up!]] [[Voice from the room: You're done!]] High Izbo! Imagination tells us today that we can look at this bill through the eyes of the victims of communist repression.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u249	Mr President, you've crossed by 40 seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u250	Then we won't remember the screaming, the screaming of people who have done wrong...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u252	...but we will remember the silence of those who should have sought justice long ago. Let's keep that in mind. [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u253	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u254	High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that we close the next stage of disdainful Polish history and reject the citizens' draft law on uniform pensions at first reading... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...to make us realize that communism began to end on 16 December 2016. [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowicz!]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ask your colleagues to stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u255	Mr President, you have exceeded your time by one minute. You disobeyed the Marshal's orders. [[Excuse me.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'm running this session, and I'm gonna decide when someone's done and who I'm prolonging. I'm asking you to calm down. Please, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u256	22 February 2017, Sejm RP. We are masters unlike some others - Jarosław Kaczyński. I wonder who you need to be, what you need to have in your heart and mind to give yourself the right to show who's worse, who's better, who's better, who's a patriot and who's not and who can't be ruined by life just because you're possessed by complexes. [[Applause]] This bill that destroyed thousands of lives means collective responsibility. Do you know who used collective responsibility in history? Little, cowardly dictators who were afraid to collide with the truth and burden the general because they were afraid of the truth. [[Applause]] And Kaczyński is also afraid of the truth, because he as one of the few in Poland really knows this truth. [[Applause]] Collective responsibility is really a cowardice, because, President Kaczyński, Mr Stanisław Ehrlich - you know who he was - he was a promoter of your doctorate and a member of the corps of political and educational officers... Or do you want to hear about Wiesław Wing, the reviewer of your PhD you defended in December 1976? At the time, this reviewer was a member of the Central Committee on Party Control of the PZPR, and then the first secretary of the party. Is that what collective responsibility is supposed to be? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Is it true that Jakub Berman graduated from the University of Warsaw that we are to take the Master's degree from all lawyers who have graduated from the University of Warsaw? This is a collective responsibility and a very cowardly approach to this case of anyone else, not Zieliński from the confetti, only Kaczyński. [[Applause]] This is his responsibility for the harm to thousands of people and the deaths that have occurred. It is political responsibility that today people, mothers, widows, wives and daughters are hurt. If President Kaczyński wanted to fight, he could fight. Where was the courage? When did he stop? [[Voice from the room: He was asleep!]] He's fighting with the police school secretaries today? Widows? [[Applause]] [[Coward!]] You should have stood on the ground, Mr. President, with a hard, full-blooded kebab and started fighting it. That's when you lacked courage. [[Applause]] After 40 years of courage came. Today, you're fighting the bugs. [[Ubecki's methods.]] You should have fought when it was time. Today, as you have the courage, face the wife and daughter of an ABW officer who's been reduced in retirement because the guy's dead. Just stand there and look them in the eye. Stand by and look into the eyes of the Warsaw Uprising liaison who worked in the office. You took her pension. It's inhuman. Look into the eyes of the daughter of the hero who had the Virtuti Militari, and you took your pension. Have the courage. If you didn't have the courage to face a full-blooded beech, at least look these women in the eye. [[Applause]] You guys have... In fact, not you: your entire formation is hypocritical. You have such a perverse satisfaction that, with great slogans like decommunization, you harm thousands of ordinary people. You have the perverse satisfaction of hurting people, and that is the worst quality of character you have. [[Applause]] You're ruining the lives of cops, real cops who caught murderers, bandits and robbers, because you never really had the guts to stand up to the people who were hurting back then. You hurt their wives and daughters and you hurt real cops because you don't have the guts. If you want to decommunize, start with each other. Start with each other. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] It's about time. There's a communist prosecutor, Peterovich, sitting in your benches. Aren't you ashamed? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Aren't you ashamed? He sits in your benches... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Keep your mouth shut when I'm talking. There's a Sergeant Krasulski sitting on your bench. He's sitting right behind President Kaczyński. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] It is in your benches that Kryża was prosecuting Komorowski. In your benches, in your government. Decommunise yourselves. Courage, for cowardice has failed you. You're covered in commune. The communion of you never came out, and it's never going to come out of you because you're in communist mentality. [[Applause]] I want to tell you one more thing: we, the new generation of Poles, today under the hand [[♪ The bell ♪]] with our daughters, wives and grandmothers - unlike you - we bravely go to your power and defeat you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u257	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply, the Parliamentary Printing No. 2294. The main objective of the contested law is to restore the state before December 2016. A novelty is the proposal to include by the time of service, calculated according to a higher percentage rate, a period of cooperation without the knowledge of superiors and active support of people and organizations working for independence of the Polish state. This proposal is a classic smoke screen and an attempt to open a gate for former officers who will create legends about their cooperation with independents. Applicants generally reject Article. In accordance with Article 8a of the Law of December 2016, it is necessary to exclude a former official from the action of the Law of December 2016 individually and in particularly justified cases. The justification for the project that was being launched today was based on false thesis. First: the law introduced in 2016 violates fundamental constitutional principles by ignoring the principle of citizens' confidence in the state. On the contrary, the 2016 amendment has just restored citizens' confidence in the state, which has been violated, among others. maintaining a privileged pension system for former officials of communist security authorities. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that many of them received double pensions until the end of the People's Republic of Poland. I think the applicant was thinking of those people who, during the struggle against the independence underground, ordered them to count twice as long as they retired. The applicants claim that the December bill... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There's evidence of that, even from 1987. ... 2016 undermines the protection of the rights acquired by the officers of the communist security authorities. Rights acquired in a wicked way, as a result of a deal concluded during the round table with carefully selected opposition representatives, many of whom were associated with these services, giving undue advantages to other citizens... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Right, the disgrace of this arrangement. ...should not be protected by law. [[Applause]] The Law of December 2016 also does not apply collective responsibility. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Of course not. It restores the appropriate proportion of benefits previously, over the years unduly charged. This applies to the whole group serving foreign interests operating against Poland and Poles, and therefore there is no reason for the Polish sovereign state to pay the calculated benefits in this way. It should be remembered, however, that the communist security authorities did not consist of good and bad structures, but were fully anti-Citizen and anti-human bodies, while the services were declared voluntarily by adults - not children, but adults - aware of what service they were entering. Falsely, the applicant suggests that People's Poland was a totalitarian state only until 1956. It's a lack of elementary knowledge. We could use to say, oh, tempo, oh, mores! Where did this man learn? This system was in operation in Poland until at least 4 June 1989 and the bodies - until July 1990. I will remind you that in unexplained circumstances it was after the round table that priests were killed - the perpetrators have not been discovered until today - which you should also celebrate with a minute of silence, and you cannot afford it. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But that's what the court is for!]] Another false thesis adopted by the applicants is the assumption that the selection committees operating in 1990 were verification committees. In fact, the selection committees had limited scope to assess the officers, and they consisted of many people associated with the communist services, which is only today known after the discovery of the resources gathered at the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Applause]] The members of the committee did not have access to the basic data, and the qualification of officers for the new services was only superficial in this case. These indicated cases, because I have many more examples - unfortunately time is running out, and I want to fit in so that no one rushes me - indicate that this law must be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo appetizer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u260	Mr Kalet, you are mistaken for your seats and roles. This is a parliament, not a court. You're already trampling on the power division, and you're destroying the lives of more patriotic groups so you don't know why you're here. Think about it and think about it. Mrs. Marshal! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! Dear guests, whom I warmly welcome! Minister! High Izbo! Today, a citizens' bill amending the Act on pension provision for officers and their families is being discussed. I'd like to express my appreciation. That's the $250,000 you collected. signatures, given the scale of the lies, the disgusting manipulations and unimaginable despicable despicability that PiS has in your case, are an extraordinary result. It shows that in a good cause [[Applause]] Poles - despite the hatred of the PiS - can stand up for justice. Thank you for all those signatures. [[Applause]] I will now say three things: law, justice, vileness, which come together in this matter. First thing, right. PiS trampled on one of the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law, which is individual, not collective, responsibility for actions. It doesn't matter to the PiS who and what he did, how many people he saved in his service. Each officer was thrown into a bag with the word "criminal." This sack, with the people inside, was tied up and thrown into the river of lies. Everyone answer the question of who does that. This project, this civic project, it eliminates the lawless. The second thing is justice. The 80-year-old Warsaw insurgent, a hero who worked in the library of the resort school in Legionów, was covered by the provisions of this law and called ubek. The people who brought glory and $16.5 billion of Poland for the operation of Samum, were called bandits. The widow of the officer who died saving the children gets a decision to lower the witness. Is that fair? Minister Zieliński, come here and tell me. Is that fair? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The citizens' bill restores justice. Third thing, Minister: vileness. PiS threw the unimaginable mud on tens of thousands of people, officers, patriots who served Poland. [[Applause]] These people cannot defend themselves because their achievements are covered by state secrecy. This vile law was created to further hinder the defence, and any lawsuit stuck in a giant traffic jam controlled by Brudziński and Ziobra ministers. PiS threw mud on people who served free Poland for almost 30 years, lied about their pensions and de facto forbade them from defending themselves. Minister, that's despicable. [[Applause]] And 37 victims of this bill. That's your bill. You want to take people's pensions, prove them guilty in court, and don't deprive them of rights under collective responsibility. Unlawful, unjust, and vile - that is what you should be called! [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The citizens' project eliminates all the horrible things that PiS has put in place. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I apply for a second reading as soon as possible, so that this injustice can be eliminated as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u261	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u262	Ladies and gentlemen! Substantive words from the club The modern one has already fallen, it was delivered by my colleague, the previous speaker. That is why I want you, our guests, all those affected by this bill just to apologize, so humanly, honestly and in immense humility, because I believe that the words of apology must sound from this speaker. I would like to apologize for the parliamentarians in this House for allowing this shameful bill to be voted out. The opposition didn't have much influence on it. We fought on this platform, we fought in the column room, we supported citizens protesting at the Sejm, we did everything we could, but it was the parliament that adopted this bill reducing your pensions, known as the debubecisation bill. I want to apologize for the government and the President of the Polish State, for inventing and signing this document. I want to apologize for the citizens, for our neighbors, for our families, for the so-called. public opinion, for people who didn't want to understand what this was all about, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who did not support you in collecting signatures, who did not want to hear your story, for their ignorance and passiveness, and finally for those who, threatened by the authorities, withdrew their friendly hand for treating women, widows and children after dead officers. I want to apologize for the victims of the bill, for the 37 people we know died because of the decisions they received, who, in despair, felt solitude and extreme helplessness, took on their lives. For breaking faith in the Polish state, for trampled dignity and honor, for humiliating and stigmatizing with abusive terms: traitors and oppressors - I apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u263	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Hello and praise to the heroes who are sitting in our Chamber today, the people of hard work, the service to Poland, the people who fought against the mob, who served the Polish state on often invisible fronts in an interview! I am ashamed that in this House, although not in this Chamber, under very mysterious circumstances a law has been passed that has taken away your rightful rights. [[Applause]] Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you for your work for Poland and I guarantee you that free Poland will come and thank you and this power will go where it deserves. I would like to say that you, in 1990, decided, first, to proceed to the verification procedure, secondly, to serve for the free Polish country. You were protecting the ministers and the presidents, which is theirs, because they were making this country. Then these plots in the center of Warsaw were acquitted, then these office buildings could be built. When they were fattened in the Third Republic, you were protecting them from bandits, and today they are taking your money. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Michael!]] They were the ones who drank vodka with Kiszczak in Magdalence - pictures can be seen - not you, because you would not be allowed to go to Kiszczak. They drank vodka with Kiszczak and later got fattened in this Poland. And those priests who are going to tell us today how to vote in the Seym were coming to the Civic Militia. [[Applause]] How they robbed them... [[Bravo!]] ...because there was no other militia, because that was the Polish state. They're taking your money, but they want to take away your honor and dignity. The money can take away from you. Honor and dignity won't take away from you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish State should respect those who are fighting for it. Very often - during this year I met with dozens, with hundreds of you - I heard stories of people who worked undercover in the mob and risked their lives every day because the mob doesn't know the court, there any suspicion could be caused by the fact that such a person would be taken to the woods and shot. And what, today these cowards are gonna take your money? Shame, just shame. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Michael!]] But I have the honor of sitting on this side of the House where people are being put in prison. Stefan Niesiołowski, my friend - 5 years in a communist prison, the hero of free Poland. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Stefan!]] Stanisław Huskowski, hero of free Poland. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos from the Civic Platform - a hero of free Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On your side are those who put in prisons, on our side are those who were put in prisons. But this situation will change. [[Bravo!]] Poland will judge this government, Poland will judge your power. [[Applause]] What you do to the officers of the Polish state is a disgrace. And I'll say again, "Hello and glory to the heroes!" Hello and praise officers, soldiers of Polish intelligence, the Office for Government Protection, all the services that served free Poland! Hey, you guys! Glory! [[Applause]] I stand before you on guard and promise you that we will do our utmost to remove this authority from power, so that they may pay for these wickednesss. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u265	Please, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm turning to... As I see your Member, this fiery speaker, from the PiS, I have the view that foolishness is not an insult, it is a diagnosis, sir. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'll say yes. I wanted to say it again - although Mrs Wróblewska has already said it, so just briefly - very sorry to all of you. I wanted to apologize on behalf of free Poland, for which I fought and for which today I have to fight against PiS filthy, despicable, infantile dictatorship. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is communism's recidivism. They're redecisive. They have the right to say... It's been said here, let's start with each other. Piotrowicz has already been mentioned, but there is Czabański, which has not yet been mentioned, Targalski, Wolski, Pietrzak, hero, satirist from seven pains. Then let them start with each other. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those people who came here, those who many for various reasons cannot come because they are sick, old, infirm, those people humiliated, platypus. That's what PiS can do perfectly. Lie - it can do perfectly. That's what they're champions at. For all these insults, for making you miserable, for breaking the law brutally in a few places, and acquiring rights is sacred, inviolable. They're supposed to talk about holiness, they're standing by the crosses, they're covering themselves with crosses. This filth of PiS-owskie, ladies and gentlemen, Poland will reject one day. [[Applause]] And all those who today support the Piss, and the Church, unfortunately, writing down a black, shameful card, for it is silent in this [[♪ The bell ♪]] the case, in their history, will also pay the price for helping the PiS dictatorship. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who collected signatures, who worked on this bill, who were doing a great job on this bill. She won't be in vain. Those who spit on you today and defame you will go away like a bad dream, like a nightmare, like many dictatorships on a trash can of history. The truth will defend itself, sooner or later. I thank all those who fight for righteousness and truth in this matter with all their heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u267	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, I beg of you... We're not at the market. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u269	Don't lecture me. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[How was the vote on two hands?]] Mr President, I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. [[Voice from the room: But it's true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u270	On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Security Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. The amendment, which, according to the projectors, aims to restore the legal status in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and in particular to restore citizens' confidence in the state and the law that they create, has nothing to do with the constitution or the rebuilding of trust. Its aim is only to restore former Security Service officers who had been deprived of their privileges in December 2016 in the form of disproportionately high pensions, [[Applause]] disproportionately high in relation to pensions of people who during their service to the totalitarian state persecuted, oppressed and oppressed. The disgraceful actions - according to this project - of today's supposedly injured people were the cause of the suffering of many millions of Poles, compatriots, who were oppressed, under surveillance, fired from work with a wolf ticket, held in jails or prisons, beaten or finally murdered by so-called. To this day unknown perpetrators [[Applause]] they worked for free and independent Poland, the suffering of the silent heroes of that time, who today say that they were just doing what needed to be done. Many times they do not even ask for help and live on the border of poverty. It's the kind of person that we should stand out and raise their pensions, [[Applause]] at least this is how the Polish state expresses its gratitude for their efforts. Why didn't the applicants claim them, but the privileges of the executioners? The debugging law is one of the elements of a late conscience check, a partial settlement with the previous system. It is for restoring citizens' confidence in the state, although a little less injustice. I am still standing in this position, and once again with all my power I stress that people selected or deserved to work in the Security Service have been placed at work. [[Applause]] They didn't take unwitting people to these formations. Anyone who even in the end of the life of the Security Service was in her ranks knew that he would serve against the Polish people. [[Sure, especially widows and orphans.]] The attempt to defend the restoration of privileges to those who harmed Poles is ridiculous. The subjecting of this project today will, in my opinion, be a blow to all Poles who have been expecting and still expect full social justice for years. [[Voice from the room: Two hands will sign under this.]] The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle requests that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u271	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I close the list... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Because a lot of people signed up, I'm asking for discipline. [[Room voice: Marshal, one and a half minutes.]] Time discipline, please. Please, the first Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'm a member of a family of cursed soldiers. My mom was a liaison, my uncle was Witold Borucki. Oak, Babinich. To this day, we do not know the members of our family, because our parents protected us without giving us information about their brothers, sisters, and uncles. That's how we survived, we survived. [[Peterovich followed them.]] I don't think the state, the younger ones, are aware of the gehenna that existed, caused by police officers and secret security officers. [[Applause]] For the first time there was a situation that justice, at least in part, had been met. I'd like to ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, how many family members in our country, like me, suffered by the Security Service of the Polish People's Republic, did not get into the right schools...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u273	Mr Pierce, you're very welcome to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u274	...was harassed in every way. If the Minister has such an orientation, please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u275	Thank you. And you're welcome to guard your discipline. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law is the law, the more it doesn't work backwards. If this esbek acted to the detriment of the Polish people, he should be convicted of proven acts. We were convinced and convinced that the times were so called. We're done with the vaginas, Minister. Turns out it wasn't, because this is where the vault was used and everyone was thrown into one bag. From this point of view, I would also like to apologize to all those here who have been affected by this unjust and unjust act. I perform here, Minister, on behalf of the women who applied to my office, who worked in the Sejnas, in Suwałki in the police headquarters, had no way to deal with the PRL's security camera, and were punished with a 50% reduction. pensions. They raise sick children alone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why have they been treated worse than the prisoners who are convicted of murder have the Social Security Office charged? They've been treated in no way in 10 years or more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u277	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a lack of logic here. The natural thing is that the pension system is systemic and not individual, therefore there must be a law that will apply to everyone. On the other hand, the law introduces the possibility that persons who were officers of the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland may, on an individual basis, receive a pre-counted pension. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Minister: How many of these people have come to you? Are you familiar with the case of an officer from Mr Sulka's Sucha Beskidzka, whose colleagues staged at the end of the 1980s, and who defended the Fr. Adolf Chojnacki? His case was dealt with in a systemic way, he didn't get a pension, he was just sent to court. I don't get it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't stand up for the esbeks, I stand up for the truth, which is why I'm asking you to answer how many cases there have been. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u280	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS legal bubel adopted at the illegal meeting of the Sejm on 16 December 2016 is another harmful mistake which Kaczyński's party gave to Poles. We should start by saying that the way in which it is adopted is controversial when it comes to the legality of its validity. The victims of the PiS Bubble are among others. Intelligence officers participating in the operation Samuma - appreciated by our American allies - who also greatly contributed to our NATO membership. These are also thousands of innocent people whom the democratic Poland has trusted, positively verifying their continued usefulness for service to the state. They are also people from Podlaskie Voivodship, with whom I have often met. By denying citizens their rights acquired, the PiS once again, as has been accepted in previous practice, violates the fundamental principles of the rule of law. If you want to decommunize anyone, you'd better start with the ranks of your party, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start with each other, because you've made the face of the destruction of the justice system of the prosecutor, the prosecutor who convicted the opponents during the martial law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u281	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you to stick to time discipline. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u282	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I'm just coming from a demonstration that takes place before the Sejm. I would like to ask the applicants not about the draft law which they brought to the Sejm today, but about the law already adopted, which they are proposing today, with their initiative today. By dividing the sentence expressed from this speaker, among others. by my club colleagues, Mr Kaminski and Mr Niesiołowski, that, first of all, the rights of the room should be decommunised, I would also like to ask Mr Rozenk whether, under the law adopted by the non-decounised law and justice club, zombies are deprived of any powers, any financial means, or whether their pension is reduced. And the murderers, Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko does not include this bill. This is a big scandal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many honest officers have been punished collectively, without responsibility, and those who really committed crimes at that time have been protected. That's the truth about your bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u283	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u284	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister, on this occasion it is worth asking whether it is not a mistake at all that the people who were in the security bodies of the communist state were then often alive transferred to the Third Republic, were admitted to its organs. That was the arrangement of the round table. Whatever formation they are in, in my opinion they should not work in public life - first of all. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, here I hear some apology addressed to people, some of whom have started their career in the Security Service. I'm so sorry. I would like to apologize to all combatants of the National Army or the National Armed Forces for saying such words in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u285	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. And I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, my previous speaker has consummated what I wanted to say, because, indeed, in this situation in this House, the word'sorry' is very many times spoken, and it seems to me, not those people who should be asking for an apology or who are simply due to apologies. Therefore, Minister, a simple question: Shouldn't there really be some reflection after this debate, that the High House should work to apologize, in the form of a resolution, to the heroes of the Home Army, the heroes of the Polish underground for this debate that our colleagues from the total opposition have held today? Ladies and gentlemen, there was also one statement here that I wanted to agree completely with. One of the Members said that foolishness is not an indication, but a diagnosis. I fully agree, I fully agree with that statement because... [[Voice from the room: Don't brag.]] I agree with this statement because, after the last phase of such a diagnosis, such words can be said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u287	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The citizen's bill gives us a chance to end the fraud that PiS calls dezubecisation. The bill adopted by the PiS in the column room is a purely propaganda act, Mr President, and you repeat this propaganda too. The current law is unfair because it takes pensions away from the officers mainly in the part they have worked out, serving in free Poland, serving in the police after 1990. PiS led police officers who served in free Poland for up to 26 years today to receive less pension than SB officers who failed to verify, but after 1990 they had already worked for themselves in civil society. normal pensions. And this is absurd, Minister, absurd, to which you have led. [[Applause]] [[And Piotrowski.]] The Act of 16 December 2016 is full of absurd legal bubble, which affected tens of thousands of people. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask you a question because there's a lot of talk about killers here. I ask you to answer directly: Is Grzegorz Piotrowski, the murderer of Fr. Are you even subject to the bill you've prepared? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No. It's a rhetorical question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u290	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome the initiators of the first committee of the minor project. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There have already been civic projects, but this is a minor project. I would like to ask the initiator if he realizes what the verification looked like in 1990. I would like to ask the initiator if he knows what the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the reduction of salary is - Cichopek versus Poland, in which the European Court stressed that you have no right to rely on European documents because you were a political police destroying democratic values. Finally, whether there is a system of appeals. Yes. And such a personal question. Mr. Dukaczewski is not here, but the example of Mr. Rozenk's colleague, Mr. The Grobel, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who owns a palace in Suchohand and is selling it right now. The poor are so belligerent. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u291	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to calm down. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The citizens' bill aims to remove from our legal order a law which introduces collective responsibility, i.e. a law which has nothing to do with a democratic state of law, but only with a totalitarian regime. This law introduces typical solutions, appropriate to the totalitarian regime, with which you want to fight this law. It only applies to officers who passed a positive verification in 1990. I have a question for the representative of the citizens' initiative. Who is subject to the law proposed by the initiative? Are these people who mostly passed a positive verification after 1990? It's for you, Minister, and your governor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will turn to the words of Charles Modzelewski: He who has not had the mindset of the lion in important moments remains the mindset of hyena. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u293	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Porwich, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during this debate, we were once again able to see that the best Ubek spokespersons, esbeks, are environments related to the Civic and Modern Platform, but I am not surprised to be honest. [[Applause]] That's the first thing. Second thing. I was inspired by Mr Arłukowicz, who said that no one has the right to determine who is a patriot and who is not a patriot. He's right, because you either are or you're not. I have a question for Mr Arłukowicz. [[There is no question mode for the Member.]] Are patriots those who tormented people who fought for true freedom, or are patriots those who planted on the reverse stool, or those who tortured people who cared about free Poland the most in the world? [[Voice from the hall: Names: Piotrowicz, Kryże.]] Are the patriots the ones who put them in prisons murdered? I don't think so. I don't see why security officials would have [[♪ The bell ♪]] bigger salaries than normal Poles, eaters of bread, who functioned during these years in the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to apologize to the men who were cursed, apologize to those who were repressed in war. [[Applause]] And now for the personal thread. I'd like to apologize to my sleep. A father-in-law who's been under investigation for a year, tortured by Military Information, sentenced to a long, hard prison. I'm sorry about my father-in-law. Józef Sobczak, for this civic project, because he's a spit in the face of all the victims. On the other hand, I will not refer to the political clown of Mr Niesiołowski and Mr Kaminski, because you do not deserve this. You sold yourself for Judas silver and I'm ashamed for you. [[Applause]] I'm ashamed that you're comparing us, this web page, you're talking about us as those who put us in prison, you don't know who. [[The truth hurts.]] Yeah, the truth hurts, I know the truth hurts. Minister, I have a question. Are the existing legal arrangements [[♪ The bell ♪]] guarantee at least a minimum pension for former SB officers and state police? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Repressive Act undermines citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state. By applying collective responsibility, you have harmed thousands of people with whom free Poland has signed a contract for her service. These people fulfilled this agreement exemplaryly. Up there, in the gallery, there are those from Podkarpacie who have literally fought dangerous criminals, their organized groups to their death and their lives. With the risk of their lives and health, they protected the borders, the secrets of the state, the most important people and the institutions of the state. You wanted to strip these people of their dignity by condemning them without judgment and making them prove their innocence, while in a normal democracy, in a normal country, this court determines guilt and punishment. But you didn't make it. You took their money, but you can't take these people's honor. And remember, he that fights by the sword shall perish by the sword. Perhaps one day, as part of the depisation, this sword will also affect anyone who has been firming an unconstitutional, undemocratic, and directed against citizens of the law. Maybe someday the PiS will be considered a totalitarian state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And his officers will bear the responsibility for what they do. Then, as part of this social justice to you and your families...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u299	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u300	...and you will be taken away with your pensions, and you will be condemned to shame and shame. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Minister, I see, he's already deserted. High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to bow down to everyone who came today, and they're here with us. I wanted to thank you for your service in free Poland. I wanted to apologize to you for Mr Kaleta's disgraceful words. It's a shame I have to sit in the same room with someone like that. [[Applause]] And with Mr Zieliński, who has already escaped. How many villains do you have to have, this is a question for Mr Zielinski... [[Then leave.]] ...how long does it take to have meanness and hatred to push a bill like this? This is an outrage. I just wanted to say thank you. The paradox is that for years of serving in free Poland, you did everything to make those who are not here feel safe. It was you who made sure that they lived in safe Poland. And it's scandalous what they're doing here. Where are they? [[I'm here.]] Where are the MEPs' duties? This is an outrage. And questions. How many athletes who played in guardian, military clubs will be deprived of retirement just because they were working for the police, because they didn't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were there regulations? How many people will be punished by this bill? I wanted to apologize again...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u303	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u304	...for those disgraceful words that came here and thank you for your service in free Poland. You were faithful to free Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u305	Thank you very much, sir. I'm still asking for time discipline. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act of 16 December 2016 deprived a large part of the monthly income of more than 50,000. retired police officers - I would add that positively verified - and their families. Is it true that the effects of this law are already reaping the loss of health and even the lives of those affected by this law? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current legal situation, police officers who are positively verified and who are in service after 1990 also have collective responsibility for their colleagues who are negatively verified. Is it true that many criminals detained by these officers during the free period of Poland today receive higher benefits than police officers who detained them? Minister! Does this government create the conditions for building citizens' trust in the state? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u307	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you so much for coming back. I would like to ask the question just to you and ask you to answer it in writing. The answer to numerous interpellations shows that you do not know anything about the deceased as a result of receiving decisions reducing pensions for officers, and that there are at least 37 of them. That's what we know, that's what the media told us, that's what we wrote to the government. I ask you to answer the question of why you have not been interested in this subject, why you have not checked this information, why you have not visited families, why you have not offered help. They were your employees, our country's employees. Is it not enough that you have allowed citizens in a democratic state to be afraid to help each other? Because they fear repression in the form of dismissals, degradation, fear for their safety and their families, fear because employers [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're intimidating them. There's evidence of that. Such practices should not be allowed, nor should they be allowed anywhere else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u309	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The dehubber bill worked like a razor. No one was looking at whom he would embrace or, most importantly, whether he was right. There was no room for individual treatment at all. The Minister does not even agree to settle appeals which are affected by Article. 8a of this bill. I have this question: Is it true that today a criminal convicted of murder can count on a higher pension, because for every year of imprisonment, he counts 0.7%. grounds for retirement than e.g. the person who was sent to a school in Legionów before 1990? And if dezubekization is to be history's justice, then what does prosecutor Peterowicz do in the benches? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u311	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Invited guests! I would like to begin by apologizing to you for adopting such an unfair law during our term of office. I say: an unfair bill, because today the oppressors of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszka sits in a comfortable chair with a solid pension, and you come here to claim your rights to be treated honestly, honestly. Minister! These words are addressed to you because in the circle of my friends, there are many noble people in my humble village who worked in such a place, not elsewhere. These are honest people who have been helping people to this day, and they have been treated in such an unfair way by the law that you have passed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you have to offer them? What do you have to say to them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u313	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Examples of pensioners who have been reduced by this harmful act are gross. Was schooling a totalitarian state? In democratic Poland they were not verified. In free Poland they were marked with crosses for their merits and for the defence of the country. Those who served Poland, its security and its citizens have been punished, for many years in the protection of democracy, fighting crime and dishonesty, and in the services of the Polish People's Republic they have not worked a second. The radical reduction in uniform benefits under collective responsibility is the failure of the Polish State to comply with its obligations, which violates the principle of trust in the State and its rights. I appeal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the parliamentary majority notes its error and allows the project to be sent to work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u315	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder how much despicability it takes to enjoy hurting another person. I wonder why you needed all this. Of course, there's one simple, natural answer: you were looking for money for yourself. That's why you reduced the pensions to officers, widows, orphans to pay Błaszczak 82,000. zł bonus, [[Applause]] To pay Macierewicz 70,000. zł bonus. Mrs. Szydło admitted $65,000 to herself. zł bonus. That's why you were looking for the money. You wanted to get rich on someone else's behalf, and so did Minister Zieliński. [[Applause]] I have a question about how many people... Besides, we already know that because the representative of the initiative said: 8,000. people appealed and wanted to take advantage of the so-called. the rights of grace enshrined in Article. 8a. Minister, how many requests have been considered and this has been taken into account in this proceeding? How many were given a positive response? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that only you and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration have the right to consider these conclusions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u317	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests gathered at the Seym Gallery! We thank you for taking up this struggle for your dignity, your dignity and the dignity of your family members. I have a question for the Minister, maybe two questions. I'm gonna ask you to answer one thing in writing. First: Is the Minister aware of the fact that collective responsibility is incompatible not only with the provisions of international conventions, but above all - I think it is important to you - is it incompatible with the social teaching of the Catholic Church? You can't do it like that. Ladies and gentlemen! And second, concrete question: How many of the more than 50,000 who have been covered by this ugly law have actually committed any of the crimes mentioned here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many of those 50,000. There were criminals - 1 promil, 0.5 promila, 0.01 Promila? Minister, I'm expecting an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Initiative! Ladies and gentlemen! I attend these meetings, we meet there in different groups. I have to say, the meetings with the people who hit the bill that PiS hit with that bill are very moving. I would even make such an argument that whoever did not take part in one such meeting did not listen to the story of one person: the right, just person who was affected, was struck by the Law by the PiS, he does not know anything about this law, he knows absolutely nothing about the effects of this law. I would therefore like to ask the representative: How many members of the PiS took part in such meetings? How many members of the PiS went to the trouble to see how their shameful legislative work hit people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Representative, was Minister Zieliński there?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u322	Was Minister Zieliński there? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question, which I will ask, will be the words spoken by one of the officers who is affected by the decisions of the Members of Law and Justice and who believes that this citizens' project will give him a chance to restore his dignity and good name. A few words about him: he graduated from the Legionowe Higher School of Officers in 1990, he has served many years in the Police Department in the voivodship command. His duties are to prosecute the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, murders, robberies, criminal arson. Later he received a promotion, served as head of the criminal intelligence department as lieutenant colonel. Not one day he worked in the security camera of the Polish People's Republic, he was never a permanent employee of the SB. The questions he has asked, and which I will now quote to sound out of this place, are: Why have officers like me been counted as criminals against the Polish people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why has collective responsibility been applied to us, and why have the tools of repression and political revenge been used? Minister, why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u325	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Kaleta, your speech today from the Seymary was disgusting. If, for once in your life, you were standing next to an opponent, you had a moral right to say that, and yes, you have no right. [[Applause]] What kind of people are driven by revenge, complexes and collective responsibility in public life? I'll tell you what kind of people. Cowards are driven by such motives in public life. This isn't about justice. [[And Nuremberg?]] Why do you keep dozens of prosecutors in IPN that you're paying? So they can look for criminals, and they can account for people who have committed crimes. [[It's called justice.]] How many criminals have you accounted for, how many have you found such criminals? No, this isn't about justice, this is about revenge, because you're cowards. Jarosław Kaczyński could sleep on 13 December 1981, but he was not a coward like you. Minister Zieliński, I guarantee you - because we are not like you - that when the time comes for the settlement, it will be for the violation of the law, for the math in the case of Igor Stachowiak that you will go before the Court of State, to the prosecutor's office, but the voters of PiS will not be settled for it, because we [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not in charge of collective responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u327	Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicant is: What is social justice? Does sharing society on the worse and better, or taking one to give to others - in the name of a sick understanding of history, a zero-one evaluation of the actions of the previous system - give anyone the right to take away the acquired rights from the citizens of the Republic of Poland? Are we still living in a democratic state in which the courts consider the questions of accusations that are currently being raised by those who are serving their country? Is this the end of democracy and the beginning of an authoritarian erasing people's lives and denying people the right to dignity, a peaceful old age? Among the signatures under your project is my name. I am proud of this and will always fight for civil rights, whose present authoritarian power deprives another tens of thousands of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! They're still here, in this room, vulnerable people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to lawlessness and injustice applied by the Law and Justice, because that is what they are called. We will take power and restore justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u330	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like a written answer to that question. I'd like to ask you for an answer. What pension will be paid by the man who recruited Masa and at the same time by the killer Fr. Dumplings? I'm asking you to answer in writing to put this together in one sentence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At first I wanted to greet all of you at the gallery taking part indirectly in this debate, in particular from Lower Silesia and Jelenia Góra. [[Applause]] The Act applies to all those who have served for at least one day before 31 July 1990. It does not matter how many years they served after 1990 for a free and sovereign Poland. It doesn't matter that they didn't deal with security issues at all: IT, doctors, athletes, lecturers, etc., can be exchanged. Nothing matters, just a ruthless desire for revenge, unfortunately. Minister! After six months of law, does the government intend to correct its position and withdraw from this deeply unfair collective responsibility? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u333	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today we have heard from this speaker about many stories of those who have been wronged by this barbaric law and we know that the law has given the Minister the opportunity to grant an act of grace, a gracious discharge to such persons as today. They're sitting at the gallery, but the Minister hasn't taken advantage of it once before. Is it true, Minister, that 8,000 have been received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? the proposals that are waiting to be considered? When do you graciously intend to reach out to these conclusions and answer those who have made such requests? Is it true that 26 thousand have been received by the District Court in Warsaw and the pension establishment. actions against persons who feel injured in connection with the effects of this law, and that the pension establishment has to a large extent these applications [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he holding? If yes, please answer the exact question as to where these appeals are and how many such appeals are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u335	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u336	There is no country in a civilized world that would collectively punish in the name of fulfilling the supposed justice of his officers and which would so brutally divide this professional group. The Act of 16 December 2016 violates the Constitution, including the constitutional principles of equality, proportionality and the protection of acquired rights, including the right to social security, as well as the protection of human dignity, whose respect and protection are the responsibility of public authorities. This law has nothing to do with equality and justice, all the more social or historical. On the contrary, it is extremely harmful because it introduces the principle of collective responsibility, disrupts the continuity of the state as a result of the democratic rule of law, and violates the principle of citizen's confidence in the State and its rights. He's breaking the rule of non-action backwards. Moreover, the successors of the deceased officers must be responsible for their deceased relatives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this law also affected widows and orphans. Because of the above and because of the 250 thousand. I have a question: are you going to direct this project immediately to further work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u337	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u338	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is obviously some act of terrible revenge, but I'm not actually surprised that this act of revenge is being carried out. Well, Law and Justice have founded their political philosophy on resentiment. Jarosław Kaczyński wants to oppress Polish society and therefore makes such a disgraceful revenge on it, also on the state. Polish history is extremely complicated, difficult. We've got to face her. Poles were heroes and murderers. Murderers must be punished, heroes rewarded. And therefore today there can be no situation that these people who have sacrificed their lives will be punished today. There's one more important thing. For Law and Justice, history began on 25 October 2015. And I must tell you that you are simply completely ignorant. You have Orwellian instincts. It's gotta stop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. 100 years ago, the Rzeczpospolita faced an incredibly difficult task: with three legal, military, military, police systems, to put together one - Polish. She did the job. The State refers to the tradition of the Second Republic. Do you remember the decree of the Minister of Treasury from 1923, which includes military services and police officers from the possessors for the internship needed to obtain the Polish pension? This regulation gave the impression that Poland is common, that it is our common homeland. Can such a feeling be felt today by officers who have undergone verification, their families, their widows, their children, often disabled? Could such a feeling be felt by the officers of the operation of Samum? Can the Bor-ites feel that way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can Grażyna Biskupska feel that way? No. And you will not make me a defense attorney because I speak to you as the granddaughter of a pre-war policeman who also served and sat in a Stalin prison in a castle in Lublin. He taught me respect for you, for its structures, and above all for its citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u341	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u342	Therefore, this is due to a sense of patriotism - my signature is also among the 250,000. the signatures collected by you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u343	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Fifth, don't kill. Minister, how many people must have died in connection with the bill you made? Seven o'clock, don't steal. Minister, how do you feel about taking money from honest people, often heroes, and giving yourself very high bonuses, you don't know why? [[Applause]] Where are these commandments, Minister, where is this morality, honesty, where is God, when you kneel, when people die, when they have nothing to live for? Minister, when will there be acts of grace? Minister, what are you going to tell us from this podium when you hear these stories, human stories, heroes, honest people, widows who have nothing to live for? Did that move you, or did you understand it? Did you understand your mistake, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u345	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act in force since 1 October 2017 is actually a nightmare of people, 56 thousand. persons who have been given a decision to reduce pension benefits. 24 861 people, or nearly half, appealed against this decision. This means that these persons have decided that the administrative decision is harmful or ineffective for them. And now the question is for you, Minister, because I wonder what happens in this case in the Ministry of Pension and Retirement for these appeals, since most of these appeals have no answer to this day. That's one thing. In addition, 33 complaints are the same complaints about the office's inaction. Does that mean this office doesn't work? Does that mean you're out of control, or did you just direct everyone to cut out the confetti? Because it's paranoid. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Welcome to the gallery, everyone. The state, when adopting this law, acted very automatically. You put everyone in one bag, and those who went through positive verification in 1990, and those who didn't go through it. You've made this bill a lot of bad. Minister, 37 people died as a result. How can today, in these days of service that is working today, have confidence in you when you are unable to keep your word absolutely? After all, you must consider that one day power can change and someone will come to mind to reach into your wallets and settle you. You're creating very dangerous precedents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last word. Minister, you have behaved very badly today...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u349	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u350	...not honoring a minute of silence for 37 people, really. Goodbye. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u351	Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform. [[Mr. President, you didn't get up either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in the Polish Parliament, Members of the Civic Platform are defending those who have never had anything to do with the atrocities of the SB. There are thousands of people harmed by the PiS debubecization bill. One of many examples is the private communications department officers. The basic criterion for their admission to work is education: radio engineering, electronics. In 1984, when the commands of the Voivodeship Civic Militia were transformed into voivodship internal affairs offices, they didn't get raises, they didn't get other tasks, they didn't take any other vows, they did the same thing. Moreover, in 1990, when the SB and the militia were liquidated, they went without verification to the police because they were never SB officers. They were doing the same thing, repairing walkie-talkies and cellphones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, what did the comms officers do that you included them in the debubecism bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u353	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, one point to Mr Andruszkiewicz, one point of historical nature. Mr President, what kind of generals and officers defended the independent from the Bolsheviks in 1920? Officers and generals of the Russian, Austro-Hungarian and German army. It's a little reminder for you. Secondly, as far as Mr Brynkus is concerned, I do not look at anyone's resume, but I looked at Wikipedia and read it - in 1986 he served two years of military service. I'd like to ask what army he's in. In the People's Army of Poland, communist? What kind of courage did you show then? And you could have refused military service back then. Movement Freedom and Peace - please ask Minister Chaputowicz, he was then an active activist of this movement. Finally, Mr Kaleta, you are a clinical example of PiS hypocrisy and arrogance. [[Applause]] And there are no words in the dictionary of cultural people that could be abusive enough to describe your behavior. [[Applause]] [[All you have to do is say I spoke before you. It's gonna be the biggest insult.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u355	Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. And please, no personal tours, gentlemen. [[But, Marshal, I promised you something.]] That is why thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! A country that applies collective responsibility is not a democratic state. The PiS have trampled on the constitution. The PiS state has trampled the Constitution on several occasions - the Constitutional Court Act, the KRS, the Supreme Court. The PiS will replace the courts. The PiS is replacing... The PiS state is a dictatorship. To the representative of the legislative initiative: Mr Rozenek, you have been in this House. Would you tell us that this is an outstretched hand to correct and show how in a fair way, through the courts, it would have to separate those who had this card, but it should not be so, because they were verified... In this case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm signing this project. And you're cowards. You're blowing up a project that signed 250,000. persons.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u357	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u358	Cowards, just cowards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u359	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. And I'm asking for discipline, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I hear from the Members of the PiS, and also from Kukiz, who is the appetizer of the PiS, that we defend the ubeks who murdered, that is just rudeness. [[Applause]] This is simply the rude insolence that Mr Kalet represents in a pure form... [[Bravo!]] ...of which probably the main, or perhaps the only advantage is screaming and waving hands. That's his work. Well, Mr Kaleta, if you say that secretaries, passport agents, athletes or technical services are this Same as the killers... [[I didn't say that.]] [[But this bill touches them.]] ...then I'm asking you who held up this power that you criticize and that we're all criticizing. [[But I didn't say that.]] It was supported by those of your environment: Mr Piotrowicz, Mr Jasiński, Mr Jach, Mr Czabański and Judge Kryża. [[Applause]] So what? Who held this power? Who's more guilty of what's been going on: [[♪ The bell ♪]] secretaries, technical staff or your leading representatives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u361	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a lot of widows, orphans, pensioners have gone through the discussion, but we haven't talked about invalids yet. The Law of 16 December 2016 referred to by PiS politicians as the debubecisation law provides for the reduction of 10% of former invalidity pensions to former officials for each year of service in the Polish People's Republic, regardless of when the event occurred, which caused the incapacity to work. This unfamiliar solution in the social security system leads to absolute absurdity. An officer who has served in free Poland for many years and has therefore suffered a professional illness or accident, for example. in 2015, may have a reduced disability pension of up to several dozen per cent only because 30 years earlier e.g. was sent to a weekly school course, which was only in 2016. The IPN considered it an institution of the Security Service. Minister, how many invalidity pensions have been reduced in connection with the Act of 16 December 2016? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't expect an answer, because we all know you're better off with confetti sleeping on your face, wearing an umbrella over you, or blocking half the town for your arrival.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u363	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u364	Then I ask you to answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u365	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just because it doesn't matter to you, it means $250,000. People signed up for this civic project, because it doesn't matter that you're not looking at whether or not someone's guilty, you're just treating everyone as guilty, the best criminals, I'm skipping that. But look yourself in the eye today, though today, to those people who are sitting at the gallery, to those who have written to you, and to those who have not stopped the mental tension you have given them. Look into the eyes of the doctors' patients, my patients, the eyes of this nurse, that secretary, that technical service worker. These are people from 1930s, 1931, 1935, 1940. These are older people, seniors. They've often voted for you. They've shown you their trust. Please, look into these people's eyes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who today - old, sick - were pushed to the bottom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u367	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u368	Please, Minister, a moment of reflection. At least let him wake up a little conscience in you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u369	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We, our families, all of us in Poland live safely and live in a safe country thanks to the service of many officers, soldiers - sometimes very difficult and in life-threatening conditions. In relation to these people, some of these people, this power, Law and Justice, has brought forth... She acted against these people, threatening them, trying to take away their dignity and their pension. Hitting people who served the state, free Poland, is the method of the State of PiS. In free Poland - in Poland - we will return to normality, we will restore dignity and a sense of well-managed service to all those who worked for free Poland. You're not gonna make it. You're not gonna make it. You're not gonna make it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Put it in a bag of some kind. They have nothing to do with the equipment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u371	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u372	We will restore dignity and restore previous regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u373	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests at the gallery! Minister! It looks bad when a greedy authority takes the means of life away from those who served the Polish state and allocates them for their own prizes. But even greater your sin is that you broke the constitution by taking away dignity from these people by applying such barbaric legal principles as collective responsibility, the act of law backwards. The citizens' project deserves to be taken into account because it restores dignity and elementary justice to these people. That is why we will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u375	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u376	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Often throughout the discussion we forget about 7 March 1950 when the actual work order was introduced. A lot of stories could have gone a lot differently if it hadn't been for that warrant. I'd like to present the story of one Polish woman. She's a surgeon's widow, a policeman, and she's been taken from a decent life by the law. Her husband didn't volunteer to work in the home affairs department, but forcedly, getting just such a typical 50's warrant, an employment order. He had no choice between civilian and other types of health care. Practically as soon as he graduated, he was admitted to military service, after which he was immediately transferred to an MMA hospital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was committed to his profession. As a surgeon, he operated in a hospital of accident victims, catastrophes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u377	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u378	...and you are now taking the dignity of a woman, his wife. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS wants to decommunize. Ladies and gentlemen, let the PiS begin with each other. Your colleague, Mr Jasiński, I apologize very much, tow. Jasiński, for the last year of his work in Orlena, ladies and gentlemen, received PLN 4 million and you want to collect money from the widows. This is your true face. Another fighter fighting for democracy on behalf of the PiS - Counselor, District Attorney Peterovich. [[Święcicki.]] Another of your fighters for democracy - ambassador of the Republic of Poland in Berlin, TW Wolfgang. You're talking about decommunization, and you really have communists in your own ranks. [[You too.]] You can attack these defenseless, and you can't account for your own communists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I represent Radom land, and Radom may know more than any other town knows what the account of harm is. In Radom I attended a meeting of former officers, former servants. Do you know what it felt like in the O.R.? Treason, the feeling that someone betrayed them. They sacrificed their lives for the state. After all, the courts worked, and those who abused the law could be punished. This is the next group tricked by the PiS, the next group of voters, next to teachers, lawyers, local government. This is another group of fools. Keep up the good work. Open people's eyes because you need to show them who you represent. Poland has never had problems with its neighbours, only [[♪ The bell ♪]] She had them inside the country. If we can't get respect for each other, we can't build power in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u383	Thank you, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u384	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Marshal, for your voice. I wasn't going to take him away, but there's no way to react when the debate is being watched. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, of Kukiz,15, are you even aware that you have reached out to you that you have not done anything, nor have you discredited anyone, that in fact those who were the greatest oppressors, the biggest bastards, are sitting and enjoying today? Have you not heard this term, which has been in operation for a good year, as regards this law, that it is the revenge of those unverified over those verified? [[Applause]] How many more events does it take for you to understand what you've done? Finally, the question to Minister Zieliński. I would also ask for an answer in writing. How many unverified SB and UB officers have touched this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u385	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer questions. I remind you that the new Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are already in force and the time of the Minister to reply is limited. [[Angel wings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During this discussion there were many false words about the bill to be abolished by this project, which is being discussed today. I can't explain everything in a short time and verify everything, but I'll at least give you some information. First of all, the Act of 16 December 2016, known as the debubecisation law, does not apply to uniformed officers, as it rained here, neither police officers, nor militiamen, nor doctors, nor athletes... [[Voice from the room: How does it not apply?]] [[Listen up!]] ...or students or other people who have been mentioned here. It concerns, it is defined in the article. 13b of this law, officials of institutions who served the totalitarian state. Repeat: Art. 13b in this act brings a catalogue of these institutions. This directory has been prepared by the IPN. That's one thing. Secondly, you are so sorry for the injury that allegedly happened, saying that this is a collective responsibility, that the law worked backwards. That's not true. Any decision on any officer, which I repeat, is made by former Security Service officers and institutions that are specifically qualified for the area of the authorities where the service is regarded as a service for the benefit of the totalitarian state, is a matter of Article. 13b, is undertaken by a pension establishment on the basis of information on the conduct of the service that the IPN prepares individually. There's no such thing as a collective decision. Everyone gets an individual decision. This decision is referred to court, as in the case of the universal system, i.e. the Social Security Office. It's the same here. It is a resort ZUS, you can say, a pension establishment. You can appeal to the court. So far, 25,900 people have benefited from this right. The law embraced what I would like to invoke right away - this is the state of March 2018 - 35 371 people, from which 25 900 have so far exercised the right of appeal to the court. As far as the article is concerned. 8a, which allows the Home Minister to take decisions in the cases set out in the Act, I will come back to that, and I will refer to these two conditions which may exclude the application of this law, such proposals have been received up to now 4202. Not 8,000, and 4202, that's the number. They are, of course, being dealt with in succession, they are being processed, the procedure is underway. As far as the financial impact is concerned, I would like to say that in six months' time, the reduction in budget expenditure, as these pension benefits are paid out of the budget, amounted to PLN 340 381 800. [[Rewards.]] The impact assessment assumed that this expenditure would be reduced by 542 800 000 per year. zł. As you can see, they will probably exceed the amount assumed in the impact assessment. As regards the amount of benefits, I will also remind you of them, because there were different amounts here. Besides, Mr Andrzej Rozenek, representing the citizens' initiative, provided net amounts. Let's give, as always, gross amounts in any case. When it comes to other expenses, the country is gross and here is net. So let's agree that we're going to give all the gross amounts, because that's a rule, a rule. The Act assumes that the pension provision of former Security Service officers cannot be higher than the average pension announced by the President of the Social Security Office, i.e. the average pension in the Social Security Office, in the general system. She today is PLN 2130.68. If a person gets a lower benefit on account, then of course he can get a lower one, but not a higher one. If it comes out higher, it can't get higher than the average in the ZUS. If someone comes up with a lower than the lowest pension, it currently amounts to PLN 1029,80, this person will receive the lowest pension. So that when making these opinions about harm, please take these facts into account. [[You'll see, you'll get the lowest pension.]] I would like to say that over half a million Poles, exactly 508 800 people, receive the lowest pension in the ZUS system today. Over half a million people. What are you gonna tell them if there's so much harm here? What are you gonna tell them? [[You don't understand.]] As far as former security officers are concerned, those affected by this lowest pension are 5577 people and civilians, i.e. among the people who receive benefits from the Social Security Office, they are often victims of that system, there are over half a million people. It's worth remembering. Maybe one more number of you will be interested. Of course, the amounts of benefits which were received by former SB officers were different, but the largest reduction that was registered by the pension institution amounted to PLN 17 560.53. As a result, the highest pension benefit was reduced. This means that today you have to add to this 2130, because this benefit has been reduced to this amount. Ladies and gentlemen, after valorization, this is an even greater amount, because this is a reduction of 18 083,83. gr. Look at the old retirement benefits. I'm not saying everyone got it that high, but they were. It's also worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen. [[And what bonus did the Minister get?]] [[Voice from the room: 72,000. For Błaszczak.]] [[You've all gained a lot of weight.]] There was a mix-up of matter in this discussion and something much worse. Of course, I will be able to give you the figures that I could call you here in answer to the questions that have been asked in writing if there was such a request. But, ladies and gentlemen, here, perhaps the most common words that fell were two words, namely shame and vileness. Many have used these words. [[Give me the money, give me the bonus.]] Yes, indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly a disgrace that for more than a quarter of a century the privileges of the former esbeks have been maintained. [[Applause]] This is the disgrace of an independent state. [[What about 2009?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the disgrace was also... [[You have no shame.]] ...on the left side of the room, that she tried, defending these privileges after 25 years, to make a coup, to occupy the speaker, to organize protests, to prevent the Sejm's deliberations. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] 16 December 2016... [[What are you talking about, man?]] ...protecting these privileges, you wanted to overthrow democratic power, which means you denied democracy. [[Voice from the hall: Stop it, man.]] [[You're gonna take it down on your own.]] Here, in this courtroom, you were standing, occupying the platform, aiming for this bill, an expression of late, but very needed... [[It's bad for you.]] [[Hello, this is Earth.]] ...history justice has not been passed. But, ladies and gentlemen, the despicable and disgraceful thing you're saying today... [[What you're doing.]] ...in particular, with regard to the two themes, namely, by assigning the deubecious act to these cases of death. How do you know that? Who told you that? Who proved it to you? Why would you even say that? Ladies and gentlemen... [[You couldn't hide it.]] ...I have respect for every death, I didn't get up because anyone I wanted to put in a position, no, it was a protest against the manipulation you're doing. You have no right. This is disgrace and despicableness. [[You can't hide it.]] You have no right to say that - I quote Mr Rozenk - politicians by law in Poland kill people. That's how to say it's disgrace and despicable. That's shame and despicableness right there. [[You can't hide it, Minister.]] [[You can't say it wasn't the cause of death.]] But little of that, Michał Kaminski, whose political history I know very well, today he worshipped heroes, i.e. SB officers, making them patriots and heroes. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This is disgrace and despicableness. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is the disgrace and despicability of what Mr Kaminski has done today. And it's scary to think that we used to be on one side. Ladies and gentlemen, we are where we were, where we were in August 1980, where we were in others... [[He's disgusted to talk about it, too.]] [[Give me the bonus.]] ...times when we fought for Poland's independence and sovereignty, and you are not only where the ZOMO stood, you go side by side with the esbeks, defend them... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Minister, you're crossing the line. Marshal, please pay attention to the Minister.]] ...you protest with them, and you want this bill today... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Be careful, Minister, what you say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u387	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. And I ask the Minister to refer to the bill, not judge the opposition. [[This is outrageous.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Today, you want to restore the status quo ante, and in fact, worse, the status quo ante ante, because you want to repeal the Act of 16 December 2016, but little of that, you also want to repeal the Act of 2009, this Civil Platform Act, and return to even greater privileges. That's the point of this bill. Congratulations. [[Is that what she was like?]] Congratulations. Say it - we will say it - to Poles who receive starvation pensions. [[Tell that to Jasinski.]] Congratulations. These are your heroes. They're patriots. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They'll come for a loan to the Minister.]] [[Marshal, intervene. They won't let you speak to the Minister.]] It's almost enough for you to make them holy and kneel before them. We're almost there. I wonder how it was necessary to go through a bizarre transformation, incomprehensible to me, so that people like Mr Niesiołowski today would say what they were saying to stand in such positions to defend the privileges of former SB officers who were being repressed at that time. [[Yes, sir.]] [[You'll have a résumé like Niesiołowski, and you'll be able to speak.]] What had to happen? What had to happen? [[The voice from the hall: He insults us.]] Otherwise you can ask, I apologize for colloquialism, if this is not a lack of elementary thinking, what you need to have in your biography, what fears to defend today those officers who were political police, [[Applause]] who served the totalitarian state, who helped maintain... [[Here is Peterovich, who served.]] [[Cut it out, man.]] Minister, I would like you to return to discussing the bill, not insulting the opposition sitting in the courtroom. You're welcome. We're here to discuss. [[Applause]] on the draft law submitted by the Citizens' Committee. And that's what I'm appealing to the Minister for. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I don't even know what your marshal says, because I can't hear it, that's the noise in the courtroom. [[You never listen to anyone, you just talk.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: These are people who, as political police, oppressed Polish patriots. These are the people who helped maintain their dependence on the Soviet Union, [[Applause]] And you're defending them. [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't tell stories - or tell stories, people listen to you - please don't write stories differently than she looked. None of them did what they did without knowing it. Don't tell us stories like that. I've dealt with them. Whoever wants to know my biography, let them know, I encourage. And I have no doubt, I have no illusions about it. [[But which one, please, show me your finger.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, this bill you're trying to lift today is not a criminal act. No. [[It's a disgraceful bill.]] Criminal trials would be court-martials, which is not what we're talking about, is it? This is basic historical justice, delayed by 25 years. Today it is saved in the budget the amount I mentioned, 340 million PLN. [[You spent it on bonuses, sure.]] Count how much we spent on our former esbeks for 25 years. [[Yes, sir.]] What's the amount? [[Applause]] And the independent state funded these privileged high pensions. And finally. Is the average benefit from the ZUS, the 2130 PLN, for which more than half a million Poles live... [[Then give me 500 zlotys.]] ...is this repression? Is this really repression? [[Applause]] Think about it. What you're saying in this courtroom today, and this bill is indeed a disgrace and despicable thing. And who made this bill? Resort children and their supporters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] their friends. Congratulations. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Bravo.]] Minister, it was a social project, it was signed by the citizens, so please don't speak that way either. An applicant's representative will speak at the moment. I would like to ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Andrzej Rozenk. You're welcome. [[Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska: Your Marshal...]] Member, very... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Your Marshal, we were normally insulted. I'm sorry, but...]] [[This is a formal conclusion.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska:...I cannot afford Minister Zieliński to tell us which side he was on...]] [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Henry Krzywonos-Strzycharska:...and insulted me because I know which side I was on.]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: How embarrassing are you?]] Member, very... [[Henry Krzywonos-Strzycharska: If you are not ashamed, you will tell me. How can you?]] [[Applause]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Bravo, Henia, to the podium.]] Mrs Niesiołowski, we know very well where she stood, and we know very well that Stefan Niesiołowski is always faithful to his rightfulness and constitution, and that is what we are calm about. I would like to ask the rapporteur, sir. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Shame, shame and shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to answer honestly all the questions from all the Members who took part in the discussion on this project, but Minister Zieliński's speech and the short time I have left obliges me to change the form of these answers a little bit. I will focus mainly on what Minister Zieliński said. By the time I get to it, I can't leave without an answer from Mr.Peter Kalety of the PiS, who asked me to say in this courtroom that the bill I'm presenting today is a joke. And that what we're talking about is funny. If a person is laughing at the death of 37 people, it means that he is mentally ill or has some personality problems. [[Applause]] I see nothing funny about the fact that 37 people are dead, and I expect Mr Piotr Kaleta, Member of the Republic, to apologize to the families of the dead. I must also refer to Mr Józef Brynkus, a Kukiz Member15, who proved by his speech that he did not know the law, did not even read its title. The title of the Act is: the Act on Retirement Provision of ABW, UOP, AW, SKW, SWW, etc., please refer to this title. There's nothing in there about UB or SB. And another envoy... Excuse me, I have to get to that... Mr Jaskół shouted here from the parliamentary benches of Nuremberg. You, Mr Swallow, do not know the history exactly. In Nuremberg, each of the Nazi criminals had a separate trial. It's worth going back to primary school, it's about time. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] And now I'm going to see Minister Jarosław Zieliński. Indeed, I have put net amounts here, because, Minister, the average man gets net money in his hand, not gross money, especially the pensioner. [[Applause]] And for them there is tangible money: 854 PLN to 1716. That's the luxury you've provided for people who have served their country faithfully. [[Joy in the Chamber]] However, you said that in 6 months you achieved a result on this bill of PLN 340 million and that you exceeded the plan. In old times, too, plans were exceeded. Congratulations. You've robbed 340 million people in six months. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's a beautiful score. But the most important thing you asked, I was hoping you'd ask, is 37 deaths, how do we know, and who it is. There you go, I was called for an answer. Captain. Krzysztof R., 56 years old, from the Border Guard, 19 June at 3 p.m. 18 has signed the receipt of the decision which I call the death decision, at 5 p.m. 18.27. The doctor said he was dead. The officer began his service on 15 September 1979. He served in the Pomeranian Border Guard Brigade. Podinsp. Tadeusz Górny, 64, wuefist, lecturer of the Tactics and Intervention Plant from the Police Training Centre in Legionów. He's been a lecturer all his life. He's trained hundreds of officers who are currently serving. After receiving the decision, the death decision, on July 6, he died of a heart attack. The doctors said we don't know... [[Disgraceful.]] ...what we're supposed to put on the death certificate. Kazimierz M., 79 years old, from the Regional Command of MO Rzeszów, a massive heart attack after receiving the decision, right after he came out of his lawyer's office, practically death at the scene. Captain. Zygmunt Henryk F., 71 years old, heart attack on 7 December 2017. Mnh-mnh. Mnh-mnh. Mnh-mnh. I'm sick. Krystyna Czyz, 73 years old, from Warsaw, rencistka, invalid I group, extensive heart attack after receiving the decision. Colonel Marian J., 74 years old, director of the Ministry of Social and Administrative Affairs Department in Warsaw, received his decision on 18 August, died of a heart attack on 21 August. You're listening, Minister, aren't you? Carefully, I hope. [[But time is passing, time is passing.]] The horseshoes. Zbigniew cz., 1960s, z Szczecin, died of a heart attack on September 26th after receiving a decision from ZER. Brig-Gen Jerzy B. from Wrocław, former Chief of Police Voivodeship, died on 29 August of a heart attack after receiving the decision. Captain. Richard Franciszek W., 68 years old, from Bydgoszcz, heart attack on 24 November 2017. He served in the passport department and then in the State Security Office. Captain. Zygmunt Henryk Frąckiewicz, heart attack on 7 December 2017 Podinsp. Stanisław Furmanek from Radom. A heart attack after receiving a decision. He died on 15 May 2017. Two neurotic strokes. Kpr. Antoni Wójtowicz. He died on 27 July 2017 after a massive stroke of the brain. He left his wife, a disabled child. Captain. Andrzej K., 69, from Jelenia Góra. A stroke, a neurotic stroke. Other. St. Sergeant. Maria S. Retired telephone caller from Płock County Police Command after receiving the decision had a nervous breakdown. She died on 1 August 2017. Leszek M., 68 years old, death immediately after the decision was received. Police officer from Szydłowiec. Stefan F., 72, died July 22. Director and Vice President of the Sports Club Guard in Wroclaw. The Minister, I believe, said it wasn't about athletes. Well, it's about athletes. We've got a lot of cases of athletes you've lowered, but you've stolen pensions. [[They're the ones who stole it, not...]] Colonel. Władysław F., Deputy Chief of Staff SB in Kołobrzeg, died after receiving the decision. Cause: cardiac failure. Major Adam J. from Warsaw, 74 years old, died on 21 September 2017 after receiving the decision. Colonel Kazimierz H. of Szczecin died on September 25. He worked in the militia and then the police for 45 years. Katarzyna Kalinowska from Białystok, officer's widow. She died on October 13th of her heart after receiving a decision from ZER. St. Sergeant. Staff. Sławomir P., 62, died on 7 October 2010 after receiving the decision. A WOP soldier and a Border Guard officer from Raciborz. Marianna K., 86, from Wąbrzeźna. The widow of a police officer. After receiving a severely reduced pension, she suffered a nervous breakdown, refused to take food, died as a result of a weakening of the body. St. chorus. Staff. Jerome Shamshur, 66, died on November 6, 2017 in the hands of his wife. WOP soldier and traffic controller at the border border guard facility in Kołobrzeg. He's off his meds, he's off his meds, he's dead as a result of his body's exhaustion. Helena Ciołkowska, 85. Widow of a police officer from Warsaw. She died on 7 November 2017 after receiving a reduced pension. Her carotid aortic aneurysm ruptured. St. chorus. Staff. Krzysztof Kozłowski, 65 years old, died on 20 November 2017. Cause: respiratory failure. 32 years in the line of duty, driver, mechanic, twice affected by the bill. He worked at Home Office, WOP and Homeland Security. St. Staff. Halina M.T. Police, 67, died on December 18, 2017. Sudden cardiopulmonary arrest after receiving the decision. Asp. Staff. Jerzy B., 65 years old, died on 14 January 2018. He retired in April 1995 from the position of Head of Supply of the Communications Department of KWP Kraków. Joanna Lomnicka, 90, from Rzeszow. Cardiovascular arrest. Death January 26, 2018 The widow of Colonel MO. The family hid her pension reduction from her. The day she found out, she died. Colonel. Jan B. died on 30 December 2017. The Department of Communications of the Regional Civic Militia in Wrocław. Helena Hare, '90s. Widow of Officer MO from Lublin. The hospital's death certificate indicates a decrease in vital function due to stress after receiving a decision with ZER. Minister, you didn't get up when I asked you to celebrate the silence of these people, these 37 people. I'm very sorry about that. I think that even if we are having very serious political disputes, death is beyond that. If someone dies, you have to respect that. [[Since when have you been so sensitive?]] If one person dies as a result of the bill, that's the reason to lean over this bill... [[Health trails.]] ...and think about whether or not she needs to be changed. If, as a result of this bill, 37 people died for six months, and I stress, this is a number certainly understated, because we do not know everything, surely there are more deaths, then it is the question: Did Law and Justice, when introducing this law, want to exterminate these people, or was that the purpose of the legislator? Because if that wasn't the purpose of the legislature, then I call on you to amend this bill, because people are dying. [[We'll sharpen it.]] [[Voice from the room: Time flies.]] To conclude, I would like to thank all the Members of the opposition. I'm really impressed by your knowledge, your competence. I listened to your questions and listened to what you said here, really with great respect. You can see that, first of all, you've read this bill, second, you've talked to the victims of the Act of 16 December 2016, thirdly, you know the subject and you know the harm that is happening. I'm proud of this opposition, and I can't say I'm proud of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u389	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. And now I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Your marshal, but a formal conclusion.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 17 h 16 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and certain other laws, - amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed as an activity for the independent existence of the Polish State, - about bailiffs. The reports shall be printed in 2367, 2342 and 2343 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the law amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. This is print number 2357. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of Henryk Slavik. This is print number 2385. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted proposals: - on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Committees, contained in print No 2370, - on the change in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm, contained in print No 2338. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these applications. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of Henryk Slavik (print No 2385). High Seym! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring Henryk Sławik. Henryk Sławik occupies a special place in the pantheon of Polish heroes. During the dramatic years of World War II, he helped Poles, Jews and Hungary to survive the German repression. Henryk Sławik was a native Silesian, a participant of the Silesian uprisings, an active plebiscite activist, and also a councilman of the city of Katowice. In September 1939, together with many Polish refugees, he was in Hungary and headed by the Civic Committee on the Care for Polish Refugees. Later he was appointed a delegate of the Minister of Labour of the Polish Government in exile. As a Polish government official, Henryk Sławik worked closely with the Hungarian government delegate József Antall and the Hungarian clergy. Henryk Sławik has committed himself to helping Polish military and civilian refugees. He also helped Jewish children, for some of them he created an orphanage in Vác pod Budapest. It is estimated that some 30,000 people, including 5,000 people of Jewish nationality, were saved as a result of his activity. Henryk Sławik, arrested after the German occupation of Hungary, was murdered in the German concentration camp Mauthausen-Gusen on 23 August 1944. In 1990, the Israeli Yad Vashem Institute honored him posthumously as the Righteous Among the Nations. In 2010 he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors Henryk Sławik and expresses its highest appreciation for heroism and dedication in saving Polish refugees during World War II. I ask the Sejm to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on honoring Henry Sławik. I would like to remind you that the parliamentary club submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Act on official time in the territory of the Republic of Poland, prints Nos 1852 and 1903. In view of the fact that the time limit referred to in Article is approaching. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including the report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Official Time in the Republic of Poland, 1852 and 1903, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 72 votes against - 348 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2018. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. Members raise questions. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We held a debate, which also echoed widely in Polish media. In fact, the media combined one vote: this debate was facaded and did not bring anything new. I remember, gentlemen - right now I am addressing Prime Minister Gowin and Prime Minister Gliński - as a month ago, when we adopted, I do not know what to call her, this fatal IPN law, I asked, appealed and paid attention to your vote. You laughed then, gentlemen. Today I see that you have less laughter and bravely solve the problems you have created. I'd like to ask Prime Minister Glinski... You're laughing again. I think the end will be exactly like this. Same as last month: we're all gonna pay for that laughter of yours. But I wanted to ask you if you are capable of resetting your foreign policy: a reset against the Union, a reset against the United States, a reset against Ukraine, a reset against Israel. Are you able to return? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to a traditional, favorable, good foreign policy for Poland, which was led by the predecessors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u391	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign Minister's information on politics, foreign policy directions has shown that PiS's foreign policy is simply a poor continuation all basic assumptions and trends of the III Polish Republic. That's a major problem. I'm gonna focus because there's not much time on just one aspect. You said that you wanted a strong European Union and that you did not want the European Parliament and the European Commission to be supergovernments, governments, national parliaments. Of course, that's a contradiction. Of course, the European Union's third decade is evolving in the same direction: a federal superstate. If you declare that you want a strong European Union, then you support the construction of a federal superstate in Europe at the expense of national states. You've been doing this for two and a half years. All the EU's centralist projects are going through in this Seym with no problem, with your majority. That's the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] About the PiS government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u393	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! This debate yesterday was a debate about the whispering of reality, some total matrix. You spoke and said that we have good relations with the countries of the European Union, that we are strengthening our position in the European Union, that we have good and better relations with the United States. Speaking colloquially, a hit - I congratulate you, in fact, that you were able to maintain your seriousness at this point - it was saying that we have a very good and stronger relationship with Israel. After the IPN Act, you say we have a good relationship with the United States and a good relationship with Israel. That is why I ask once again: If we have such good relations with the United States, then when is President Andrzej Duda's visit to the United States scheduled, when is President Trump's visit to Poland scheduled? [[He was just here.]] When will there be specific dates for high-level meetings? Don't pretend everything's okay, because it's not okay, and you know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u395	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u396	Thank you, Marshal. On Poland's relations with the outside world, two issues were shadowed. Relations with the European Union and with the European countries - members of the European Union have been shadowed by a deformity of justice, a demolishment of justice. Today we hear the announcement of withdrawing, very shy, from very unwise, from the beginning criticized by the opposition, including the Union of European Democrats and PSL, solutions concerning the supervision of the Minister of Justice of the courts, from the district court, to the Supreme Court. It's good and it's not good enough. The second element was the IPN Act. A week ago, in the Legislative Commission, we adopted a position in which the Sejm, with the votes of PiS MEPs, stated that any doubts expressed by President Andrzej Duda have no reason to believe that everything in this law is constitutional. Today we read the position of the Attorney General that this bill is poorly prepared and that it contains unconstitutional records. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what is foreign policy in the context of these two issues? What's your position? Do you know that yet? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u397	Thank you, sir. Mr Małgorzata Gosievska, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u398	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 2 years there has been an action of disinformation against the democratically elected authorities of the Polish state. State institutions, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland and other members of the government are offended. The whole nation, the whole Poland, is insulted. This action is planned and carried out in Poland and abroad by some politicians and the media that are conducive to it. Question to the Prime Minister: Do these actions, based on lies and discourses, weaken the image of Poland and democratically elected authorities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u399	Thank you, Member. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, asks for the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There you go. [[Some Members chant: Give me the money! Give me the money! Give me the money!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! But most of all, the natives! I address the Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to take the floor because at last someone has to say: enough, enough talking to the Polish government, enough talking to Poland, enough talking to Polish citizens. [[Applause]] [[But not enough raises.]] I want to stand in front of you and make it clear that there are cases and there are subjects where, whether or not we're sitting on government benches... [[Voice from the room: Give me the bonus!]] [[You can't do it without a raise.]] ...or in the benches of the opposition, we should talk about this with one voice and together. And this is the issue of foreign policy and business, and the Polish state right. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Hitting the ministers of the Polish government, the Polish government is hitting Poland and you know it very well. And your trips that you've been doing abroad for two years... [[Voice from the room: 8 years! Eight years!]] ...only to undermine the democratic choice of Poles, which was the indication of Law and Justice as the party which is to implement the programme for Poland, the programme for the future of Polish citizens, is precisely an act to the detriment of Poland and the Polish state. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to cut through this spiral that destroys the Polish country, winded by the opposition. I would also like to refer in this speech to what has recently become a hucpa by opposition politicians, namely information on the earnings of ministers of the Government of Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Two months too late.]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you screaming about?]] But I want to give this information and these explanations to Poles above all, because this information is due to the fact that you are lying and cheating all the time. [[Applause]] [[Give me the money!]] First of all, I'm going to stress one thing: I'm taking responsibility for the government. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I take responsibility for the government I've had the privilege of running for two years. [[Give me the money!]] I take responsibility for success and take responsibility... [[Some Members chant: Give me the money! Give me the money! Give me the money!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Mr. Marshal, please shut up this man.]] ...for everything that was flawed. Your screams won't stop what I'm trying to say. [[Some Members chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]] Good. I have a question for the politicians of the Civic Platform. If that's the case... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But wait a minute and listen. If you are screaming so loudly, please tell me how it happened that only in two years of the Law and Justice Government several of the most important companies of the Treasury have doubled their profits and their stock value has increased by PLN 100 billion. 100 billion PLN in 2 years! [[Applause]] And this 100 billion has been allocated to social programmes, and it has been addressed to ordinary citizens. This is the money of Poles, not yours. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Give me the money!]] In two years, my government has fulfilled these declarations that I made here on 15 December 2015, on 16 December, when I made the exposé. [[Applause]] Program 500+, free 75+ drugs for seniors... [[Where's the meds?]] ...the restoration of the previous retirement age, that privilege. We gave the Poles the privilege you took away from them. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Give me the money! Give me the money! Give me the money!]] The right of parents to decide when their children are to go to school. It's the law you took from them. [[Applause]] [[What about those bonuses?]] Minimum wage increases, minimum hourly rate increases, minimum wage increases and minimum pension guarantees. [[Bonus!]] These are the achievements of this government. Two years of hard work. [[Applause]] Today I have the courage to stand here on this speaker and talk about difficult topics. Yes. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, this is not about foreign policy.]] We strengthened the justice system, we strengthened it, we fixed the tax system. [[Is this foreign policy?]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode, Marshal?]] The money that was coming out of the budget in your day came into the pocket of ordinary citizens today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is not about.]] [[This is a coup d'état.]] We've strengthened the operation of the Central Corruption Bureau. [[The Prime Minister's shift again?]] This office that you laugh at, but which is so scared of those who make deals and all kinds of scams on the border, at the interface of economy and politics. [[Applause]] The Government of Law and Justice is rebuilding Poland. We are repairing what has been corrupted, we are reforming, also with regard to foreign policy, also with regard to our relations in the European Union. [[Not about that.]] The achievements that Poland's diplomacy has over the course of these 2 years, you can only dream and you know it very well. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The Government of Law and Justice protects Poland and protects Poles. What was it like in your day? How will you look into the eyes of the inhabitants of Warsaw today, those who have been thrown out of their apartments? That was your protection. [[Applause]] [[Lech Kaczyński.]] Yes, indeed, ministers, vice-ministers in the rule of law and justice received rewards for hard, honest work. And that money just belonged to them. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] These were official awards, prizes which were awarded within the budget adopted in this House, not watches from fellow businessmen. [[Applause]] [[All you had to do was not steal.]] These people worked hard and worked so that from the development of Poland all Poles could enjoy, not just selected interest groups. [[Applause]] We want further development. [[Madame, these hungry pieces are no longer passing through.]] We want Poland to continue to build its strong position in the world, in Europe, to be a developing country. We're thinking about the challenges ahead of us. [[No kidding.]] Our mistake, and here I am addressing our fellow countrymen, Poles, was that at the beginning of our term we did not talk to you about how to reward honest and hard-working officials, [[Applause]] But I hope and believe deeply that this subject will now be settled and closed. Taking this opportunity, I would like once again to thank all the ministers and vice-ministers of my government very warmly. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Thank yourself for the reward.]] I want to thank the parliamentary club that supports us on this difficult road. [[Sponsors.]] First of all, however, thanks are due to Poles, all those who, today, when they meet me, say: Thank you, we keep our fingers crossed for you, only we worry that there will be such a time that something bad can happen in Poland and change. It won't change, we'll continue to guard the interests of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] If you have so much to account for all the money that you have earned honestly, then please come to the podium and point out, Mr... [[What, you didn't get that bonus enough? Didn't you get enough of that bonus?]] Mr President, come here and account for how the nuclear power plant was built. You built it for 5 years - 182 million PLN, 100,000 PLN. For building this power plant, your party buddy got it every month. Take the map of Poland, stand here on the platform and indicate where the power plant is, because you haven't even established a location for five years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can stand in front of everyone today and account for everything that's been done for two years. [[What about the reward?]] I can talk about bonuses, prizes with an open head, because it was fair money paid out of the budget that was meant for it. And where were the prizes paid to your politicians? Dumpsters, cemeteries or Owl's? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Poland has an extraordinary development opportunity. We're all responsible for her. This is our business together. We are responsible for Poland today, but we are also responsible for Poland before future generations. The point is that they have a place in the world that they love, respect, which will be the most precious for them, where they will build their future. And that's responsibility. All of us, the whole room. This applies both to foreign and internal policies. [[What are you talking about?]] But if there is no understanding on the part of the opposition that hitting a democratically elected government, destroying the fundamentals of statehood is the worst thing that politicians can do in Poland, it will never be easy to deal with you. Start thinking about Poland and Poles. [[Applause]] I have the courage to stand before you today and speak on difficult subjects. I wish that to you, too. Give the Poles back the money that was coming out of the budget in your day. Today, money is in the budget and development programs are implemented throughout Poland. [[Applause]] [[Some Members get up, chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]] [[Some Members chant: Give me the money! Give me the money! Give me the money!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, I am informing you, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 3a that if anybody wishes to submit formal applications, please make them in writing. [[I'm in the middle of a corrigendum.]] We'll proceed with the vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the moment, you are interfering with my deliberations. [[What's this?]] [[I'm in the middle of a corrigendum.]] [[Shame.]] I draw the attention of Mr Caesar Tomczyk. I'm gonna need you to leave the speaker, or I'm gonna use the article next time. 185. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject information will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 184 voted against - 241, two Members abstained. The Sejm's motion for rejection has been rejected. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 2368. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2368 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 310, against - 2, with 120 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 34 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2369. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2369, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to the committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. The Members shall raise questions. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the subject of the debate was considered by the High House by a citizens' project, for which I very much wanted to thank, because it is not easy to collect signatures when the propaganda machine of the government presents a lying, deceiving image of who this law concerns. When Minister Zieliński presented his position, it grew in layers of monstrous nonsense and it would be difficult to ask all the lies that the Minister said here. But one thing, Minister, I am interested in: How can you defend the pension rights of people who served free Poland for 27 years, performing various functions as officers in various kinds of services? Minister, how did those people who worked get a pension? Why don't you come and tell me, because I don't think you even know it's the officers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who served free Poland, this law applies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u403	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u404	And the second thing is that it is a question to your representative of the legislative initiative whether at the meetings at least one member of the PiS appeared to listen to what damage... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u405	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There may be a connection between the death of those who have been summoned by Mr. Rozenek and the decisions that they have received under this dehubian act. However, I will mention a few names so that you will simply think about it, because the relationship in the case of these deaths with the Esbec activity is evident. Maturist Grzegorz Przemyk killed on 14 May 1983, Antoni Browarczyk, 20 years old, killed on 17 December 1981, listen, Włodzimierz Lisowski born in 1915... [[You weren't in the opposition.]] I was on strike at Dry and New Huta. You weren't there. ...beatn to death by esbeks. Wanda Kołodziejczyk, also 60 years old, also killed by esbeks. Ladies and gentlemen, when you vote on this bill, consider this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u407	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, PSL, has the floor. Sorry about the shortcut.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u408	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Our club represented, among others, in the debate. Stefan Niesiołowski, who - sentenced to 7 years in 1970 for opposition activity - spent 4 years in the Polish People's Republic prison, and on his behalf also... My merits in the fight against the system are much smaller, although they are, too, I was interrogated, I was also locked up, I also spent many, many hours in jail. [[Get to the point.]] One question to the Minister, perhaps to Minister Zieliński: Is this bill that today punishes officers who served part of their service in Poland in the years after 1989, e.g. Fighting gangs, working for Polish intelligence in Iraq, includes, punishes or touches real criminals such as Piotrowski, the assassin Fr. Dumplings? Are the zombies who chased us on the streets when we protested in the '80s also subject to this law and punishment? Twice, no. It's a wrong bill because it doesn't hit those who should be punished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and punishes those who served free Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u409	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft print law 2294 at first reading, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 241, against 185, with four abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] [[Down with the commune.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] We would like to return to the review of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise Polskie Kolej Państwowe and the Law on Rail Transport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2278. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2278, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Company (Polish State Railways) and the Law on Rail Transport. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2308-A. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee, I would like to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees on print project No 2308. Ladies and gentlemen, the joint committees propose that the three amendments be rejected and that the whole of the law be adopted. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that it is not only a very good law, but also very important, because this law allows for cooperation e.g. National Tax Administration with the Minister of Health and will counter the illegal export of drugs from Poland. This law is very important, it is necessary because rail transport has not yet been subject to monitoring when it comes to the transport of sensitive goods. So far, sensitive goods have been monitored on the road. Some criminal gangs have moved to the railroad and now we need to monitor this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very necessary because drugs, very expensive medicines are exported from Poland, which are included in the list of medicines of special importance, and these medicines are missing in Poland. Meanwhile, criminals, gangs, organized groups form tax carousels, export drugs abroad, and losses for 2017 are over PLN 2 billion. So I hope that, for the sake of peace of mind, you will all vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u411	Thank you, sir. I remind you, the committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2308. In an additional report, the committees present the amendments on which we will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act of 9 March 2017 on a system for monitoring the carriage of goods by road. In the first amendment to Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 applicants shall propose to reduce the penalty for non-compliance referred to in that provision. The committees, I remind you, are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment in the following article. 22a applicants propose to reduce the amount of the penalty imposed on the carrier. The committees are asking, I remind you, to reject this amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 198, against 236, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 24 1a applicants shall propose a reduction in the penalty imposed on the operators referred to in that provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 197, against - 237, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2308, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 427 votes against, 2 votes against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1928-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u412	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the second reading, one single amendment to the Senate bill amending the Act on Radio and Television was tabled. The only one, but unfortunately - I say: unfortunately, because the intentions were very right - essential. The Commission, considering this amendment on 20 March, unanimously decided to reject it for two reasons: because of its substance, because this issue has nevertheless been discussed repeatedly, both in the subcommittee and in the committee, and there is at the moment no technical or financial capacity to achieve such a significantly increased level in terms of the number of programmes with amenities for the hearing, the visually impaired, but also because of the formality, as the Legislative Office has pointed out that the amendment is burdened with an irreparable legal defect. The latter argument certainly prevaild. In conclusion, we ask that the amendment be rejected and that the entire bill be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u413	Thank you, Member. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1928. We will vote first on the amendment which the committee puts forward in its additional report. In the only amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of the Article. 2 draft amending act. I remind you, the committee requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 74 voted against 351, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 1928 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Radio and Television Act. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2242. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2242, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 433, 2 against, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Offences Act. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law on amending the law on public collective transport. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2314-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, following its meeting on 20 March, I ask for the rejection of the only amendment which has been tabled and for the adoption of the draft law in its entirety. The bill is very important because it concerns the implementation of European law and directly concerns the opening of the Polish rail transport market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u415	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2286. As we have heard, the committee is asking for the bill to be passed. In the amendment tabled in the additional report, on which we will vote first, in Article. 19 Act on public collective transport applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. Let me remind you that the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 75 votes against 349 and 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2286 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Public Collective Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the management of a successful enterprise of a natural person. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is to refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. This proposal was opposed. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to vote against. I believe that this law, which deals largely with economic affairs, should go to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development not as an opinion, but as a law that should be examined there. Speaking of the speech by the Prime Minister, I would like to make such a slight suggestion to Prime Minister Morawiecki that it is reckless not to attend the plenary session of the Sejm... [[I don't think that applies to what we are voting on.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not about.]] ...and sometimes it can be dangerous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u417	I understand some people know what you mean. [[Voice from the room: Everyone but you.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of addressing, for consideration, the draft law in print No 2293 to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 264 against - 170. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the review of item 9 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2340-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. During the second reading, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requested that the project be rejected in its entirety. The Commission, after considering this request at its meeting on 22 March 2018, recommends rejecting the request. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u419	Thank you. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No 2340. The proposal, which was presented in the additional report, to reject the draft law in its entirety, will be put to the vote first. The Commission, I remind you, requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. The question is raised by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an amendment to the Law on Judicial Costs, but it is really a continuation of this scandalous law on IPN, which entered into force on 1 March. What do you want to do in this revision? You want to exempt all NGOs from the charges for actions for protecting the good name of the Republic of Poland. This is a tool for mass lawsuits based on rules that you are already criticizing today. Minister Ziobro - Attorney General, presented his position on his IPN law to the Constitutional Court. What did the Minister-Deputy Attorney Ziobro write? It is dysfunctional and may undermine the authority of the Polish state. Yeah, that bill you passed is dysfunctional. Current relations Poland - Israel are in a pre-violent state. We call for the law on judicial costs to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Michael!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u421	Thank you. I would remind you that the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No 2340. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 169 voted against 266, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole draft law, the question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has been said, this bill is a continuation of the IPN Act. This IPN law has made our relations with Israel, with the United States, with Ukraine worse. As far as this bill is concerned, which is now to be passed, it is to put out the gasoline of the fire that came after that bill. All organizations that have such a thing in their statutes, i.e. any organization, will be able to bring a lawsuit worldwide on any matter which would seem to her to offend the good name of the Polish nation - not only in matters of occupation, not only in war cases, Holocaust, but in every case. If someone says that Poles are misruled or that they are bad fans, I don't know, or something else, you can file a lawsuit for an unlimited amount, for a million dollars, with no consequences. This law also abolishes fees for combatants [[♪ The bell ♪]] and in cases relating to the good name of Poland, the court can always exempt them from such a charge. This bill will bring more damage than good and ridicule Poland, will continue the evil, which brought the law on IPN. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member, has also come forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is an alternative to the subsidiarity principle of the State, i.e. The state can in many cases be served by citizens who will sue slanderers all over the world. And it's very good that they're gonna do it. [[Sue yourself.]] Whether it's effective - we'll see. But the application itself often works well on those who defame the good name whether it's Poland, whether it's individual groups or organizations on an internal scale. And that's why it's very good that the Sejm is working on such a bill. I would like to say that serious states also mobilise social capital to defend the good name of their country. I therefore believe that this law should be supported as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u425	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is basically a clarification of a very bad law on IPN, a law that started fires, a series of fires in international relations. This was mentioned earlier and Minister Waszczykowski, who signaled that there was this problem, and Minister Chaputowicz. Do you really lack the courage to withdraw from this bill and restore your previous legal status when it comes to the IPN Act? Do you have to go through with this? You guys really don't get off your knees about this. You have a chance to step away from this law to get up out of the mud because you are kneeling in front of the world, introducing such a disgraceful, supported bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u427	Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One short question: What is wrong with defending the Republic of Poland, what is wrong with fighting for its good name? That's one thing. [[Applause]] [[Exactly. Yes, sir.]] Secondly, Mr Święcicki, if you do not know yourself, do not speak. Because if you're insinuating here, you're presenting a vision, a theory that you're going to be able to sue for not knowing what amounts without any consequences, then I'm telling you that, for example. If someone is wrongly sued and takes a proxy - if the charge is wrong and the person loses - the loser will pay a proxy, and these are costs that can go into thousands and even tens of thousands of zlotys. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So if you don't know each other, don't say anything. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Do you know what's at the highest stake? 7200. What millions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u429	Of course, this is a series of statements in question mode. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2340 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 261 against - 152, with 18 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 2366. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 2366, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 431, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Telecommunications Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2363-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies at its meeting on 22 March considered the amendments tabled at second reading to the government draft law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 14, while rejecting amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11, as well as adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u431	Thank you. As we have heard, the committee calls for this proposal to be adopted. It's the 2363 print. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. Amendments 1 to 11 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the telecoms law. In the first amendment to Article. 56 applicants propose not to repeal paragraph. Six, nine, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, six, nine, six, nine, The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u432	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You're changing the Telecommunications Law, but it's not gonna be easier, faster and more comfortable, but it's gonna be harder, longer and harder. Currently, someone who signs a mobile phone contract in the living room, maybe later on the phone, calling the customer service office, change this contract, e.g. When he wants to change the way he settles for the Internet, he doesn't want to pay for every megabyte he downloads, he wants to pay for a package of gigabytes. If we introduce these solutions, any such change will have to be made and confirmed in writing in the living room. It doesn't make any sense. This is ridiculous. Is this the way to create better conditions for the provision of telecommunications services? It's not easy, it's making things difficult for subscribers. I therefore ask you to accept this amendment and to leave the provisions which are in force in the telecoms law. It'll definitely be better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a solution for subscribers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u433	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 240, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 56a. The adoption of this amendment will render the 3rd amendment futile. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question will be asked by Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our amendment concerns a provision which concerns an agreement concluded in document form. In general, we support this form of contract because it offers great opportunities to conclude contracts online. On the other hand, the regulation adopted by the High Committee goes beyond what refers to all the services contained in the Consumer Rights Act. In the Consumer Rights Act, such a declaration of intent of the service provider shall consolidate and provide, in the form of agreed terms, an agreement on a durable medium within the meaning of that law. On the other hand, you are proposing to extend the scope of these agreed terms of the agreement to the whole negotiation process. That's why we're proposing here a third version, which would be a rewrite. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the version in the Consumer Rights Act. However, according to the principles of correct legislation already existing in the Polish law system, the footnote would be reproduced by this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u435	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u436	I think it's a better solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u437	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u438	...in accordance with the principles of correct legislation, there is a deletion of this point at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u439	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 170 voted against - 231, 30 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 56a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 195 against - 227. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 59. 1. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The Commission calls for its rejection, of course, of the 4th amendment. The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u440	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There was supposed to be a transition from paper to digital Poland, but when it comes to these changes, you do not act according to the paperless principle, but you act according to the papermore principle. Why, in the 21st century, in the age of the digital world, you have operators who sign contracts with subscribers in salons, print 50 pages of regulations and price lists on paper, since this information can be sent in electronic form, for example. By e-mail? It's not making life easier for subscribers, it's not making things better. You're supposed to be betting on digitization, and you're betting on paperwork. So it is good for you to accept this amendment, because it will allow this papermaking to be avoided. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u441	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 183 votes against, 233 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 59 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 186 voted against - 242, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 60a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Antoni the Man will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, when adopting the subcommittee report, followed the recommendations that would reduce paper volumes and increase electronics, i.e. the transition from the paper economy to the digital economy. The Law and Justice Club, on the other hand, tabled an amendment at second reading, which is aimed at previous regulations, i.e. to continue to multiply the amount of paper when concluding contracts, although the rules so far function very well when it comes to changes in contracts, regulations or price lists. They work very well using your mobile phone and changing your mobile phone. So you want to get back to the concept of papermore economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u443	Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 234 voted against - 172, with 27 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 61 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am going to be consistent, because when I see this amendment, I think of a story with the wording of a "and/or magazine." We discussed at the committee meeting that the intention of the projector was to make it possible to choose the form, whether it be paper or electronic, and if the previous amendment had already taken into account this sentence: unless the subscriber requested this information by electronic means, then there is in this amendment the error that I drew attention to in the committee. As regards the price list to be provided at the time of signing the contract, the subscriber will receive it in paper form, as well as at any request of the customer, e.g. to the e-mail address indicated. This means that electronic form is an additional form, and paper form is the main form. Therefore my question: Will you improve this phrase in the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u445	Minister Marek Zagórski will answer Mr Zagórski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat this once again, sir. We do not see any problem here, but if the Senate wishes to lean on it and considers that your understanding of this provision is correct, it will probably want to make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u447	Thank you, Mr... Minister. As a matter of fact, he's an MP, too. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 234 voted against - 199, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 79b. 1 applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 21, with five Members holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 115. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. Rejection of these amendments will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 13th amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Antoni Mężyłko, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The second reading included an amendment beyond the scope of the proposed bill. In fact, three amendments were added, three significant amendments, i.e. Amendments 9, 10 and 13. In today's vote, they are so marked. And these amendments are perhaps of great importance because this is about distributing very attractive frequencies, probably even more attractive than those related to LTE, because they are lower frequencies, within the range of 400 mHz, to some users, and this is to be agreed, the distribution of frequencies, by the President of UKE with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. energy. It is not known whether there is any idea of setting up a new operator on those frequencies, which will be available to the Minister of Energy, and we know what the price of the frequency is today, after a tender for LTE [[♪ The bell ♪]] We know that these frequencies...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u449	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u450	...have immense value.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u451	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 279, against 147, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 201 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have already decided that there will be more paper, more paper, and probably these documents will end up in a basket, and now you can decide that actions towards entrepreneurs will be oppressive. And I encourage you not to do this because Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that entrepreneurs would have easier. We have heard about the introduction of a business facilitation package. However, this proposal breaks the principle that penalties are imposed on operators after the inspection procedure when UKE recommendations are not implemented. This means that businesses will be punished immediately, even if they implement audit recommendations and correct unwitting errors. Is this supposed to make it easier for businesses and telecom operators to operate? Is this the way to create better conditions for their business? It's rather oppressive, not any kind of ease. Therefore, we propose in this amendment that penalties be imposed then, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When these actions are repeated...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u453	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u454	...which are against the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u455	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 231, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 21a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 and 4 of the Crisis Management Act, the applicants propose that this provision should apply to end-users. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 420, against - 7, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment of the addition of the article, the applicant proposes that, by 30 April 2018, the President of UKE should, in agreement with the Minister responsible for energy, make the frequency reservation referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 264 against - 166. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. The 15th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 398, against - 9, with 17. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the whole question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. [[Antoni the Man.]] [[Mr Mendło.]] Antoni the Man, I'm sorry, I had another card in front of me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club promised Poland a digital economy and, in fact, in the telecommunications market, we go backwards in terms of digitality and we build a paper economy. Instead of paperless, we have paper more. These bold and modern intentions were included in the strategy of Prime Minister Morawiecki as well as in the plan of the strategy for responsible development. On the other hand, there will be little left of this strategy, because although in the business constitution, which also falls within this scope, the rules are that what is not prohibited is allowed... It's not even about prohibition, it's about new responsibilities that take us back in development. The Civic Platform Club will vote [[♪ The bell ♪]] against this bill because it's harmful to the entire telecommunications market...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u457	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u458	...and this is certainly moving towards an increase in prices, consumer charges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u459	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2363, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 251, against 173, with 10 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Telecommunications Law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2345. The Commission is also presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. In the minority proposal to Article. 63 of the Prison Service Act of the applicant in the added paragraph. 3 propose that the recruitment of senior management posts should be open and conducted by means of a competition. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 185 voted against - 250, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We're going to vote on the whole thing. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the condition of the Prison Service, shows the case of Ms. Agnieszka Pysz, who was dying for a week in an investigative arrest in Grochow, Warsaw, begging for help, but this help was not given to her. Ambulance has been called for a fatality. An explanation was given to the doctor who refused to help her, proving that she was simulating. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the situation with the Prison Service? One educator in 40 convicted, one psychologist in 200 convicted... [[And what have you led to?]] ...meterage - 3 m2, Low wages, professional burnout. What antidote does Minister What do you suggest? New private... not private, but resort university of the Prison Service for 120 million PLN, new jobs at the expense of the liquidation of jails and prisons. That's what criticizes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rectors' Conference and the General Council of Science and Higher Education. It's a blockage...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u461	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u462	...the employment of civil college graduates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u463	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2345, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 276 against - 153, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on social insurance for farmers and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Mirosław Maliszewski, club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, at the request of the PiS government, the PiS club voted out the terrible employment regulations for foreigners on agricultural holdings. After 2 months of these rules, we can see clearly that the labour offices are not doing well, farmers are not doing well, they are standing in queues, labour costs have increased, hourly rates have increased. This bill, which you have now passed, is, as if it were an answer, an attempt to compensate farmers for their difficulties in life. There are interesting solutions in this law, but it really puts a lot of obligations on farmers again and again in many places it is disadvantageous, although good ideas are included in some places. Only for this reason, in order to continue to work on this law, to improve it and to help farmers, the Polish People's Party Association - the European Union of Democrats will vote to refer this law to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u465	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that yesterday's application for rejection at first reading by the Civic Platform politicians was a purely political act to make it difficult for PiS to fight for a rural electorate. And so it is, indeed, going to be difficult, but it will be difficult for farmers. The farmers asked very much for this bill. There's been calls to the committee all morning, why we don't proceed with this bill. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Why does the Minister of Agriculture allow this? The first version of the law was submitted on 30 October in the RCL. What are we waiting so long for? Why do agriculture projects even reach the agriculture committee at the last minute and we have to hurry? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u467	But what does he allow, sir? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Because the minister wants to answer, just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u468	I will repeat the question: Why did the Ministry of Agriculture submit this project to the Marshal's staff so late? [[Ah...]] If October 30th was the first project, why didn't he come to us two months ago? Why do we have to process it at such a rate?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u469	Okay, thank you very much, I understand. Why does the Minister allow the Ministry to file an application so late? The Minister doesn't see the need to answer the question. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no.234, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 127 voted against - 298 and 2 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the proposal to the committees I had previously mentioned. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending law containing amendments to the Hunting Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Point 6 (4) of the Senate proposes an amendment to point 4. e. The Commission is asking, I would remind you, to accept this amendment. The question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The hunter, by firing a shot at the animal, must be 100% I'm sure this shot will kill the game. It's so-called. Shot clean, fired on the chamber. An animal, colloquially speaking, whether using a hunting language, remains in fire. That's not true, High Izbo. Hunters don't shoot well. Research shows that it escapes up to 30% of the gunshots, that is, the wounded game, and only 70% It's being found. If there are more than 600,000 hunters in numbers. The animals, that's 150,000. is shot, of which 30% animals, i.e. Forty-fifty thousand, remains unaccounted for. Let's reject this amendment so that hunters have to record unaccounted for gunshots. Then they'll shoot ethically. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u471	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 150 votes against - 279, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 33c. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. The vote was 2, against - 416, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 33d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 2 against - 422, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes changes, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 42aa. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, ASF is freaking out. One of the reasons is indeed the overpopulation of wild boar, so farmers insist on creating rules that effectively eliminate wild boar as a vector transferring ASF disease. This amendment, which we are going to vote on at the moment, concerns punishment for preventing or hindering hunting, namely the effective fight against African wild boar fever. This is a task imposed on hunters by the state. They shall carry out this task on behalf of the State. What is the position of the whole government on this matter, and what is the position of the Minister of Agriculture on this matter? So does the government support the fight against ASF and favour these methods or is it against it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u473	Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of Environment, will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, this amendment is really just a logical and necessary consequence of the record adopted by the High House of resignation from the penalty for obstruction of hunting. This amendment only abolishes a penalty that would still be unobtrusive. So this is really a legislative amendment, not a substantive amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're bothering everyone, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u475	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. 23 voted against - 398, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5, the Senate proposes to add an article. 3a in the Amending Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is generally wrong. This is a legal bubble that creates more problems than it solves. But there are some good solutions. One of these solutions, also at the initiative of the social side and the Civic Platform, is this amendment, which increases safety by the fact that every 5 years each hunter will have to undergo medical examinations. Let me remind you that this is a dozen thousand people equipped with guns, and it's a big animal gun. These people are in a different mental and physical condition, sir, and I think... Although it won't be 100% secure. But every 5 years, testing their predisposition to the proper use of this weapon will significantly increase safety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u477	Thank you. Mr Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u478	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a substantive question. Since we are amending the law on arms and ammunition in this amendment, the rule is very imprecise. And I have two questions. First, does the obligation to conduct research every 5 years apply only to hunters, or to all users of weapons, i.e. collectors, those who use weapons for sports purposes? And the second question, because this is also inaccurately formulated in the Act, is: Will this obligation be fulfilled after the entry into force of the Act, or within 5 years of the entry into force, or 5 years after the entry into force of the Act? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u479	Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister for the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, let me just remind you that this is an amendment that emerged during the Senate debate and the Senate accepted this amendment. Hence, of course, the government has no position on this amendment at the moment. But any doubt... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Minister, you ordered the senators to meet you.]] Mr President, if you do not respect the Senate, this is your business. We, on the other hand, respect the Senate. If the Senate accepts the amendments, of course we have the right to judge them one way or another, but the Senate has the right to accept the amendment, let me remind you. Therefore, at this point in time, the question of whether this provision will apply after 5 years, whether it will be repeated after 3 months and every 5 years, is of course part of the legislative evaluation. And that's the interpretation of the legal services they'll work out. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: What's the range? What's the scope?]] [[Who does it involve? Who?]] [[You ordered the senators to accept this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u481	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. 65 votes against, 362, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 8th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The 8th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 13. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill would not be embarrassed by any left-wing bias. This law is another manifestation of the fact that the Law and Justice have nothing to do with conservative values, has nothing to do with the real right hand, however to define it. Besides, it is not the first and not the last, because Mr Czabański and Mr Suski - this is such a PO-PiS coalition - are also aiming to destroy the Polish fur industry in the name of the extreme left-wing, so as not to say: leftist, action and belief that hunting and furry should be destroyed. This is unfortunately your policy, and I remind you that yesterday you once again passed the Act on the protection of the conceived life to the next sitting. [[We didn't move anything. Please don't lie.]] That's exactly what you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u483	Speak on the subject, sir. The amendment is legislative. Please refer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u484	With regard to this law, and with regard to this amendment, I would like to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] regarding the Ministry of Environment...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u485	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u486	Szysko, come back - this is the password that should work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u487	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry. There is Mrs Urszula Pasławska with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u488	Thank you very much. I have a final question for the Minister. Minister, who will benefit from this bill? Certainly Polish farmers will not gain because this law will lead to the spread of ASF. The Chiefs will estimate the damage. Certainly Polish hunters will not gain because this law prevents hunting from taking place. I remember, in the previous term, it was PSL, together with PiS, that blocked the privatisation of hunting. Today the whole world comes to Poland and says: How did you manage to protect the national forests? You have state forests. You have a state-of-the-art hunt. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill will lead to the privatisation of hunting, and in a year's time you'll find out. Who's gonna win? Certainly not Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the amendment is a legislative amendment, and - as is said in the language of the legislators - concerns the change of vocation, not the substance of the whole issue concerning hunting axiology in the context of the life of the nation, to say so. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members is against Amendment 7 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The votes against were 427, in favour - 1, 2 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Resources of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other Acts (Prints No 2330 and 2367). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other Acts. The two days before yesterday, the joint committees considered the Senate resolution and proposed that the High House should reject amendments 7 and 11 of the 12 amendments tabled by the Senate and accept the remaining amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u491	Please. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled by the Senate to Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Homes for the Homeless. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate proposes that these provisions also apply to participation in the joint ownership of the residential building in which the former premises are located. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you is against amendments 1 to 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Against 420, against six. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The Senate proposes that the word "investor" be replaced by "beneficiary of support." The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 of the Senate proposes a different scope of application of the provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 5th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Most ruthless is... In fact, everyone voted against. The Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes to delete the words or to submit the declaration referred to in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 of point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote against 418, 5 - in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of the Senate proposes that the provision should concern the provisions of the Agreement referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, to a certain extent. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendment 7 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 375, against - 59. The Sejm did not accept the amendment, i.e. it rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5) of the Senate proposes that the rule should not be amended by the rules governing the fixing of charges for the use of premises. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 8th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. He voted 1, against - 433. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 1 and 2 of the Senate propose that these provisions should concern, inter alia, sites whose destination has been changed. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 9th Amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote against was 432. The Sejm adopted the amendment unanimously. In the 10th amendment to the article. 2 amending law containing amendments to the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants and housing resources of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code in art. 21c The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against this amendment, Amendment 10, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (2) of the Law amending the Senate proposes that the provision should apply to all the projects referred to in Article. 3 Act as amended by Art. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 11th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 387 against - 45, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes a different scope of the transitional provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 3 against - 433. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws (Prints Nos 2331 and 2357). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Act on Microorganisms and Genetically Modified Organisms and certain other laws, print No 2331. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, after considering on 8 February the Act on the amendment of the law on micro-organisms and GMOs, introduced four amendments to the text of the Act. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 are drafting amendments and standardising the formulation of provisions on deadlines, while Amendment 4 introduces Article. 5a, which shall form the Register of GMO cultivation on the date of entry into force of the Act. The joint committees: environmental protection and agriculture at their meeting on 20 March 2018 considered and requested amendments. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 2357. On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High House to accept the amendments adopted by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u493	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the act on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms. In the first amendment to Article. 49c paragraph. 4 The Senate proposes to replace the word with the word "shows." The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 147 votes against - 232, 46 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 49d paragraph. 1 The Senate proposes to replace words without undue delay with the word "immediately." The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. 144 voted against - 225, with 46 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 49e paragraph. Point 4 of the Senate proposes an amendment concerning the content of the application for the entry of GMO cultivation into the GMO Register. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 3rd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 151 voted against - 234, with 43. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to add an article on the establishment of the GMO Register. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 161 voted against - 231, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments passed against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State (prints Nos 2332 and 2342). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the resolution of the Senate on the amendment of the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State, Parliamentary printing no.2332. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 March 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve both amendments contained in the Senate resolution, but I would like to briefly discuss them, because these are two important amendments. Namely, the 1st amendment excludes the possibility of anti-communist opposition activists to investigate, and those repressed, damages for the damage suffered and compensation for the damage suffered, resulting from repression for the activities referred to in the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. What are the grounds for such a position of the Senate? The Senate in the original project, which was based on the petition of the person who was born on death row in Fordon, whose mother was sentenced to death... The original Senate project concerned only children repressed. During the second reading, the Senate extended this demand for compensation and redress for those who have the status of anti-communist opposition activist and have the status of a repressed person. There are currently more than 4,000 such people, which results from information from the head of the Office for Confession Affairs. However, a legislative error has been made here. The Senate did so contrary to the principle of correct legislation at the time of the second reading and has now withdrawn from it and, in the justification for this amendment, the Senate considers that these matters should be governed by a separate law. The Commission has agreed to this. Amendment 2 concerns, however, the extension of the right to compensation and compensation not only to those born for prison purposes, but also to those children who stayed there with their mothers, or even to the extent that, if these mothers were pregnant then, children born from such pregnancies at the time when mothers were for these purposes are entitled to compensation and compensation. The Commission calls for both amendments to be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u495	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Both amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 8c. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. It's 27 against 403, he's holding off on one. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The first sentence of the first sentence of the Senate proposes that the provisions of the Article. 8b have been appropriate to the children of the persons referred to in paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. No one was against - 430 Members, with one abstention. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on bailiffs (Prints Nos 2336 and 2343). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the bill on bailiffs. In its resolution, the Senate proposed 20 amendments of a ordering, legislative nature. The Commission, after considering the resolution on 20 March 2018, proposes and recommends that all 20 amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u497	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) of the Senate proposes that the financial shortfall referred to in that provision should consist in spending funds subject to documentary evidence on activities that are not intended for them. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. No one was against - 425 Members, no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 54 (1) (a) 3 The Senate proposes that the remuneration referred to in that provision be determined by the court. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Everyone voted against. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 80 (1) (b) and (c) of Delegated Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Point 3 of the Senate proposes that this provision refer to Article. 79. Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. Two Members voted against - 423 and no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 81. 2 The Senate proposes that this provision refer to paragraph 2. 1 (1) and (2) (a) b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. All voted against - 423 Members were against. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 105 Senate by adding paragraph. 4 proposes that Article be applied accordingly. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. All voted against - 416 Members. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 110. 2 and the deletion of paragraph 2. 4 The Senate proposes among others. the appropriate application to the members of the examination commission also of Article. 81. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. All voted against - 433 Members. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Against 430 Members voted, no one was and no one held back. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5 The Senate proposes that, in certain situations, the President of the competent court should apply to the Minister of Justice for the appeal of the bailiff. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8 and 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Two Members voted against - 421, no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 222 The Senate proposes that this provision should concern disciplinary offences. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. The vote was 163 against - 245, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. Point 222 (1) of the Senate proposes to replace the word "or." The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 155 Members voted against - 277, no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 9 The Senate proposes that this provision should concern a disciplinary offence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 14 Members voted against - 420, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The Senate proposes that, in certain cases, it be examined whether punishment for disciplinary misconduct precludes the possibility of considering the candidate to be flawless. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against the 13th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. 424 Members voted against. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 14 to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 and 17. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 14 and 17 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 435 Members voted against. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 6 The Senate proposes that the relevant application of Article be made. 232 the disciplinary action and its alternates were subject to the provisions of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 and Article 4 of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. There were 190 votes against - 246 Members, and no one abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 238 The Senate proposes that the possibility for the Minister of Justice to dismiss the Disciplinary Ombudsman at his request be independent of the reasons set out in other provisions. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 191 Members voted against - 241, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. 27 § 1 point 1 lit. b The Act on the Supreme Court of the Senate, by adding the eighth indent, proposes that the jurisdiction of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court should also include matters under consideration by that court relating to disciplinary proceedings carried out under the Act on judicial bailiffs. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Four Members voted against 434, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 19th amendment to the article. 285 The Senate proposes that the second sentence be deleted. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. For - 1 Member, against - 434, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Against 435 Members voted, no one was and no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (print No 2034) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question was raised by Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the applicant: Is it true that if this bill were to be converted, more Poles' money would remain in their pockets and, consequently, if Poles had more money that they could dispose of could increase their consumption, it would be an additional injection and a motivator for the development of the Polish economy? In view of the above, the question is why do you ask to reject this project at first reading, since everything indicates that this kind of solution - to put it simply - is good for citizens who will have more money in their pockets, as well as for the Polish economy, in which there will be a larger cash flow, that is, cash flow, and the possible negative effect may be that there will be less money... [[There won't be any prizes.]] ...there will be no money just for prizes and for loose conduct, and so will the already deranged public administration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u499	A representative of the applicants, Mr Blazej Parda, the Kukiz Club15, spoke.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a little weird, because there was already a law and justice project that reduced the tax for small companies, but only small companies, or 10%. Small businesses. It turns out that among these small companies 40% These are foreign capital companies. Our project covers practically only companies with Polish capital and you want to reject this project. Why? In your project you wrote such a nice justification that the project is needed, because the tax reduction is aimed at speeding up the pace of growth, creating favourable conditions for increasing the entrepreneurship of Poles, including, above all, the entrepreneurship of young, well-educated people. How are we supposed to understand that? You're aware that tax cuts will increase, speed up growth, help young people, right? That's what you wrote in your government project. And now that we're putting together a project that expands this group of people because it's going to be about 2 million companies, it's about reducing the tax to 15%. You're saying no. Do you have a patent for knowledge, or does your rhetoric just change depending on how the wind blows? Ladies and gentlemen, the little taxpayers we're fighting for are 41%. share of GDP, average is about 15% Big companies are 30%. Small taxpayers create the most GDP in this country. Employment - small taxpayers account for 39% jobs, large companies - 30%, average - 15% . We're standing on these smallest companies. They're the reason you're sitting here. They're the reason you pay your salaries. Then why don't we help them, too? Large companies can apply for various types of constructions, taxing abroad - Cyprus, Dubai, a well-known construction. Small businesses won't do it because they can't afford tax advisors, companies. They just have to pull from first to first. You're betting on research and development. Okay, great. Just remember, for the smallest ones, bread and butter must first be provided. That's often missing. That's why we're offering them a tax reduction. Over 2 million companies will benefit from this and around PLN 4 billion will be left in their portfolios. This is the amount that will certainly drive the Polish economy quite hard. I see you're in a hurry to go home, but just a moment longer, let me finish. I believe that the one who will vote against is doing everything to disturb, firstly, Polish entrepreneurs and secondly, the development of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u501	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2034 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 222, against - 201, three Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws (print No 2122) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club, came to the question. There is no Member. [[Voices from the hall: Michael Szczerba.]] Ah, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That money just belonged to them. These people worked hard and worked hard. High Izbo, it is not a question to the greedy government, it is a statement of fact. I am talking about Polish pensioners, people who worked hard and still want to work. PiS at first reading rejects the project which was submitted by the Civic Platform, a project which aims, first, to increase the income of Polish pensioners and to encourage them to take up their professional activities. Currently, pensions are subject to an obligation and are taxed on PIT. We want to change that. We want the job to be worthwhile, we want to encourage those retired people who feel up to taking up their jobs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's paid off. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u503	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 2122 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 231, against - 201, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on State aid to seniors, amending the Act on personal income tax and amending certain other laws (print No 2182) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The questions were raised by Mr Krystian Jarubas, a PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u504	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Dear Member, what arguments did it prevail that the Law and Justice applied to reject this project at first reading? The seniors are waiting for this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us whether similar rules exist in other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u505	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u506	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister - 65,000, you, Minister - 75,000, you, Minister - 82,000.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u507	Let's get to the point, sir. [[The voice from the hall: cash, cash.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u508	High Izbo! This is another parliamentary project that PiS wants to reject at first reading. You don't want to talk about the situation of Polish seniors, you don't want to talk about their income, you don't want to talk about releasing their pensions from taxation. This is a big scandal. Easter is coming and Prime Minister Szydło probably knows what Poles will talk about at Easter tables. They will speak of your greedy rewards, and they will speak of your greed. [[Applause]] Byzantine privileges, they're gonna talk about spending public funds on credit cards and talking about million-dollar awards for ministers and... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a representative of the applicants, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u510	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Calm down, please. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Please don't go out, because as the first reading was, you all left and one member of the PiS was only here in the courtroom. One Member was. [[Applause]] So maybe it's worth listening to. I won't talk long, really. These are very important, important things, and there were specific questions, so I'm going to want to answer them. As already stated here, this is a very important project for pensioners and pensioners, very important because it is a groundbreaking project, meeting the expectations of all pensioners. This is a common solution. It's not selective, for one group, for the elite, it's for everyone. This is the solution for everyone. Pensioners and pensioners are waiting for this solution, ladies and gentlemen. They were here prepared to listen to the first reading, sitting at the gallery. Unfortunately, as a result of the manipulation, they could not listen to the debate on this project. They didn't want to be admitted to the Sejm at all. That's where we start. [[Because if everyone wanted to come...]] Why is this an important project? Because he significantly raises pensions and pensions, benefits for pensioners and pensioners. And I could... [[Member Mieczysław Kasprzak shows the data sheet]] This way? [[Straight ahead.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, half of pensioners receive a benefit of PLN 854. PLN 854. [[You were 8 years old, sir.]] If we were to accept the proposed solution, sir, these pensioners would benefit, they would have more than PLN 146. This is a significant solution that gives you a chance to survive. Because today retired people are basically getting starvation benefits. [[What have you done for eight years?]] [[And how much did PSL rule?]] They're starvation benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the government position. [[And for eight years, how many benefits have been raised?]] Well, that's an hour. 16.03 Government representative Minister Zieliński... Oh, Minister, you said that Poles today live on retirement benefits. I could be wrong for a minute, maybe it was an hour. 16.04. Is that what happened, Minister? [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] That's what you said from that bleacher over there. So, ladies and gentlemen, how can a pensioner live on starvation benefits? But there was a question... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Come on, calm down. [[That's why we're making things better.]] There was a specific question, what's the justification...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u511	Mr President, please calm down and don't shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u512	What's the reason... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What did you say, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u513	Mr President, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u514	You didn't say anything? I heard what you said. You were, too. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u515	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, what was the justification? The justification was clear and clear. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Closer to the microphone.]] The justification was that we would need to change the electronic system in the ZUS, that we would need to improve the documents... [[The voice of the hall: The crown of kings begins.]] ...which currently operate in the ZUS, that it could cause chaos in the payment of retirement benefits, and that's where the retirees will lose. That was practically the only reason. And then the phone calls, ladies and gentlemen, and the retirees made it clear that they wanted the chaos resulting from the adoption of this bill. So I'm addressing the honourable states, if that's to justify the decision to reject this bill... Unless you have any other justification, tell me about it here, from this bleacher, because it hasn't been presented. You didn't hear that, so you can't protest because you weren't in the O.R. [[Come on now.]] I therefore appeal once again: ladies and gentlemen, bow down to the millions of pensioners who today, as the minister of the current government has stated from this stand, live on starvation benefits. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[12 years old and you've raised your retirement age.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u517	Thank you. You have the floor of Deputy Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Some Members chant: Give me the money! Give me the money! Give me the money!]] [[Some Members chant: Beata! Beata! Beata!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think the retirees are interested in your screaming, but they'd like to hear something about the proposed changes in pensions. [[Applause]] Let me repeat: give back this money, which, instead of going into the budget for eight years, is just to run programs for pensioners, it's gone somewhere. [[Applause]] Now let's talk about facts. Let's talk about facts. You have extended the retirement age for Poles. [[Yes, sir!]] You even reduced the funeral allowance, I'll remind you, you even took it so it wouldn't be fair to bury your loved ones. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] The lowest pension... [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lowest retirement. Remember how much the Platform and PSL were the lowest pensions in the times of government. 800 PLN. We're the ones who picked it up and guaranteed that the lowest pension couldn't be... At least $1,000. zł. We're working on another shift right now. [[Applause]] Yes, actually seniors, retired people must have higher salaries, but you know perfectly well that... Of course, you can scream populistly, wav various pages now and tell how you are in the opposition, such hungry pieces, but for eight years you didn't care about these pensioners. [[Applause]] So let's talk about facts. [[Voice from the room: 65 grand!]] We restored the previous retirement age, i.e. - again - we gave back, gave the Poles the privilege that you took away from them. [[Applause]] We've increased our minimum pension. We have also increased what is important, and here I think that PSL should first of all hit the breasts, minimum wages, pensions for farmers. [[Applause]] We have introduced a widespread valorization of pensions and pensions. This year 6 billion PLN was allocated for this purpose. [[Applause]] We've introduced free meds for seniors... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ... 75+, just to... Well, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[What 75?]] Once again, you spent 182 million on a nuclear power plant that isn't there, on a virtual power plant. [[Applause]] And that money had to be spent on free drugs for pensioners. [[Some Members chant: Thiefs! Thieves! Thieves!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the moment, the government is preparing senior programmes that will be presented in the near future. But we really want to help effectively, and we want people to get it so that everyone has a sense of... This is how the Law and Justice Programme is implemented. Poles finally know that they are hosts in their country. That's the point. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[On your feet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u519	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... [[Formal conclusion. With a formal application.]] After the vote, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2182, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For - 231, against - 198, two Members abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. Member with a formal application? [[Voice from the Chamber: After the votes, there was to be.]] [[There was a vote, didn't you notice?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 183 requesting a recess. I'd like a break to be ordered so that a greedy woman... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[What's up?]] ...and a greedy woman stopped insulting... [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u521	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I find that you have violated the seriousness of the Sejm by your conduct in the sitting room. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A request for a break has been filed. I'll put him to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 170 voted against - 260 and 1 Member abstained. The motion was rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Election of a member of the Court of State (Prints Nos 2326 and 2339). On the basis of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on the Court of State and Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 and paragraph 1. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm should the term of office of a member of the Court of State expire, the Sejm shall make a supplementary choice. Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak has been nominated as a member of the Court of State. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present the candidacy of Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak and the opinion of the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Please take your seat. [[But it's a formal conclusion. This isn't your private farm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u522	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present your candidacy. dr. hab. Czesław Paweł Kłak as a member of the Court of State. Prof. nicknames. Dr. hab. Czesław Paweł Kłak was born on 30 August 1981 in Rzeszów. In 2003, he graduated from a very good law degree. By resolution of 12 October 2005, the Council of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Maria Curie-Skłodowska in Lublin received the degree of doctor of legal sciences, and by resolution of 25 June 2012 the Council of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow obtained the degree of doctor of habilized legal sciences in law discipline. Currently he is employed as an extraordinary professor at the University of Law and Administration in Rzeszów, where he is a dean, director of the College of Law and Security and head of the Department of Internal Security for Criminals and Crimes. He took a prosecutor's application and took a very good prosecutor's exam with the result. Between 2008 and 2011, he worked as a prosecutor. He is a specialist in criminal law, criminal proceedings, forensics, criminology, the protection of human rights and legal aspects of internal security. He is also the author of more than 140 scientific publications, including two copyright monographs, scientific articles and a voice for court decisions. Leads, among others. research on the long-term nature of the procedure, as well as on the issue of penitentiary issues. Mr. prof. Nazwa. Dr. hab. Czesław Paweł Kłak also conducts expert activities. There are, among others. a member of the Penitentiary Policy Council at the Minister of Justice, an external expert of the team appointed by the Minister of Justice by the June 2017 order for the prevention of crimes resulting from religious and racial hatred, and a vice-president of the team appointed by the Minister of Justice to develop draft amendments to the criminal law of enforcement. Mr. prof. Nazwa. Dr. hab. Czesław Paweł Kłak is a commentator of the criminal law issue and on the reform of the justice system in professional publishing programs. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak is a very good candidate for a member of the Court of State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u523	Thank you very much, Mr... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u524	On behalf of the Committee on Justice, I would like to present an opinion on the candidate for membership of the Court of State. Following examination of the candidacy on 19 March 2018, the Commission gave a favourable opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u525	Thank you very much. Two Members have come to the discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club. [[Half a minute, right?]] Two minutes. [[How much?]] Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, this is not your private farm. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Twice we've listened to a few dozen minutes of invectives at our address. You didn't stop it. The lies were pouring out of that bleacher. [[Yes, sir!]] And you shut down Mr Michal Kaminski's microphone after the first sentence. [[Lie!]] And yet you state that he is violating the seriousness of the Sejm. It is you who violates the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And I'd like to tell you that according to the regulations...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u527	Mr President, we are at a different point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u528	...which you broke here, you have no right to say... [[Mrs. Szydło, you should have said that.]] ...because you changed the rules in such a way that the violation... [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] ...the Sejm's credibility can only be seen by the Marshal, and yet you are not a Marshal of the Sejm fortunately. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u529	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member who presented this candidacy. At the committee meeting, did the candidate for the Court of State assure everyone on the committee, because it would depend on our vote that if he were to judge all the members of the PiS who broke the constitution... [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] ...who have broken the law, who have unlawfully awarded such sick rewards, will vote for their punishment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u531	Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and Justice. [[But there were supposed to be two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I dare say that such a candidate as we present and present today, you have never presented. If you pay attention to the dates... [[Not like that.]] Please don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen! Date of birth: 1981. [[We didn't have Beata either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u533	Mr Nitras, I warn you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u534	2003 - graduate of law school, 2005 - already doctor. [[Get out of here.]] For the next two years, doctor habilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, 140 publications. This will be the best qualified member of the Court of State of this term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u535	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect the members of the Court of State by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak as a member of the Court of State would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The absolute majority was - 207. 254 Members voted against - 142, with 16 abstentions. The absolute majority elected Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak as a member of the Court of State. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Change in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm (Print No 2338). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for amendments to the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this proposal? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2338 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For -393, against -15, holding down 5. The Sejm adopted a resolution on a change in the composition of the Sejm's secretaries. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2370). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2370 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For -404, against - 7, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 01 hours 19 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of plaintiff David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz (print No 2047). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am obliged to submit a report to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the application of plaintiff David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to the Sejm for the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Marshal of the Sejm VIII term of office pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1b in relation to paragraph 1. 7 of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator addressed on 10 October 2017 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, after having considered this request at its meeting on 22 November 2017, pursuant to Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator proposes the adoption of a proposal by the private prosecutor David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the civil liability of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u537	Thank you very much, sir. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. I ask the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's start with the facts. Fact 1: A quote from the prosecution's file led by Mr. Zbigniew Zioba at the time of the tragic incident. David Jackiewicz approached Zbigniew Marchel and asked him why He's worried about his loved ones. Then the vulgar man answered him and swung his hand toward him. Dawid Jackiewicz pushed the assailant away, striking him with an open hand and a wrist part in the area of the left cheek and chin. After that blow, the man shook and fell behind his head on the ground. On 2 January 2007, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the Zbigniew Marchel died of cranial-cerebral injuries. Fact 2: Only 3% of these cases are dismissed at the prosecutor's stage, 97% This kind of case goes to court. Fact 3: The case of Mr Dawid Jackiewicz's PiS was dropped by the prosecutor's office. She's found herself in an insanely narrow group of cases that are being dropped at the prosecutor's stage. I never thought... [[Voice from the room: Come back!]] I didn't blame Mr. Jackiewicz. However, I argued that the circumstances of the case were such as to raise a question about the correctness of the prosecution's actions. High Izbo! I've always raised the hardest issues, always asked questions in the public interest, and I will continue to do so. I'm not going to be intimidated by high-level lawsuits or anything like that. [[Applause]] I understand that Mr.Dawid Jackiewicz would prefer that I never bring up this case years ago, he would prefer that it not be invoked even in order to draw attention to very important public matters. And just like that, I don't blame him in human terms, but in politics, you have to have thick skin. All of my statement of 19 July 2017 concerned only doubts about the operation of the prosecution's PiS, raised a topic that was publicly relevant and was absolutely not a form of personal attack. But even if Mr.Dawid Jackiewicz, contrary to the clear context, took my July statement as a personal attack, it is worth recalling what the Polish courts say about criticism of politicians. The issue of admissible criticism of public persons, in particular politicians, and the so-called behaviour required by them. thick skin has repeatedly been the subject of case law in both Poland and the international arena. According to e.g. with the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Poznań of September 2005, it is widely accepted that: the action of public persons has an impact on the shaping of public life, constitutes the basis for the legitimate interest of society and the related right to information. For these people, the scope of criticism is wider and the protection given is weaker. High Izbo! Another judgment - judgment of the Warsaw Court of Appeal of May 2016: A public person, undertaking political activity, knowingly and voluntarily puts himself to public judgment, must therefore face further criticism of his actions than an average person. In other words, in the case of a public person, other criteria should be used in assessing whether there has been an infringement of worship than in making such an assessment for other persons. High Izbo! The conclusion is clear. You can't block someone from fulfilling their parliamentary mandate. [[Who are you talking to anyway?]] You can't block parliamentarians from fulfilling their mandate just because they're talking about things other politicians wouldn't want to hear about. Immunity is about guaranteeing Members their independence, freedom from pressures that could prevent them from representing their citizens. And it is this present attempt to waive my immunity that I view as an attempt to close my mouth, an attempt to close my mouth to the entire opposition. I'll remind you again, it's okay. 3% of the cases in the Article of the defence need to be dealt with at the prosecutor's stage, 97% these cases are dealt with by the courts. The procedure in which Mr.Dawid Jackiewicz's name was scrolled was terminated at the prosecutor's stage. Even then it caused a really big wave of questions and comments in the media. Several years ago, almost all the proceedings concerning one policy of the PIS - Mr.Dawid Jackiewicz took place at a time when the prosecution was headed by another politician of the PIS, Mr.Zbigniew Ziobro. [[But that's not true!]] The final decision to drop this investigation was made shortly after Mr Zbigniew Ziobro ceased to be the head of the prosecution's office, but we do know that the most important prosecutor's actions are carried out shortly after the start of the proceedings, just after the incident, and immediately after the event, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, party colleague of Mr.Dawid Jackiewicz, was the head of the prosecution. And it is hard to be offended that the media, that citizens have started asking difficult questions in this context. And these difficult questions are still raised in the public debate. High Izbo! As a Member and as a lawyer, I referred to this issue, which raised huge media controversy and which, years ago, has already raised a lot of questions about whether the leading politician of one of the parties should lead the prosecution, which is investigating a case in which the name of another leading policy of the same formation is mentioned. This was what was happening in the context of the debate on laws that the PiS politicians, who had already controlled the prosecutor's office, handed over authority over to the courts. Trying to take away my immunity, ladies and gentlemen, this is a double-edged sword. If, at this point in time, my immunity is lifted, it will mean that any open, honest parliamentary debate in the future will be virtually impossible... [[Voice from the room: According to the facts.]] ...because the Members of the opposition will simply be blocked the possibility of asking questions in the public interest, difficult questions in the public interest, i.e. the possibility of raising difficult questions and recalling difficult situations in the past. Let us remind you that the PiS has so far, with none of the four similar conclusions, allowed its politicians to take immunity. [[How did you vote?]] They'll still be out of the interest of the proper services. So consider whether you want to follow Kale's morality: another law applies to Members of the opposition and another law applies to Members of the governing party. Is that fair? Does this have something to do with the law, or does this have something to do with justice? I am dedicating to all Members before taking part in this vote, especially the Members of the United Rights, I simply recommend reading the 2006 case file. Look at the facts. Look at what's in those files. Rate these facts without the influence of your party superiors. Rate only dry facts, alone, without misunderstood party solidarity. Then you'll find that this attempt to take away immunity has no legal basis whatsoever. I view this proposal as an attempt to gag Members of the opposition as an attempt to intimidate them. And I won't be intimidated. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u539	Thank you, Member. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Ryszard Petru (print No 2173). I ask Mr Piotr Uruski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the application of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Commission at its meeting on 9 January 2017 adopted a proposal from the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik of 12 September 2017 supplemented on 20 October 2017 by the Sejm to give its consent to the criminal liability of Mr Ryszard Petru. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the authority of the applicant Maciej Wąsik to make a declaration. [[Voice from the room: Are you in the pictures?]] If Mr Richard Petru withdraws his words and apologizes to Maciej Wąsik... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's the report?]] ...in the form of a brief statement from the Parliamentary Speaker of the following content: "I declare that Mr Maciej Wąsik is not a criminal. Excuse me... [[Mr. Marshal, this is not a committee report.]] ...Mr Maciej Wąsik will call Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to vote against the agreement to pull... [[What's this?]] ...for the criminal responsibility of Mr Richard Petru... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, please abort.]] ...and withdraw the indictment against him. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What's this?]] [[Are you in those pictures with Maciej Wąsik?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u541	You're yelling so much that I can't hear the rapporteur at all, authentically. Perhaps a little more peace and then I will hear what the rapporteur is saying. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. Mr Petru is not here. We will therefore proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by the Head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department for Organised Crimes and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski (Print No 2306). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u542	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[We'll remember you. We remember everything.]] Thank you so much for promising to remember. I'm very happy for you. [[Although it's gonna be nightmares, but it's okay.]] It really is a fantastic thing to be remembered. On the other hand, I would not want to be remembered like other Members who are very often before the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[Is this the committee's report?]] To date, the reports submitted by the rapporteurs to the Rules of Procedure, the European Parliament and the Immunity have been actually limited to the literal reading of the report. [[It's the right thing to do.]] It's gonna be a little different this time. I was required to submit a report to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application by the head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to consent by the Sejm to the detention and temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Marshal of the Sejm of the VIIIth term of office, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1b and Article Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, addressed on 10 January 2018 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, after having considered this request at its meeting on 27 February 2018, pursuant to Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7c paragraph. 5 and Article 5 Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes the adoption of a proposal by the Head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department of Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December 2017 to allow the Sejm to stop and apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This decision, this proposal of the Rules of Procedure Panel, follows from the fact that on 22 January 2018 Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland agreed to be held liable for criminal offences as defined in the application of 20 December 2017 submitted by the head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin through the Prosecutor General. I would like to point out that Mr Gawłowski has agreed to hold him liable for the criminal actions set out in the proposal of 20 December. I would like to remind you that Mr Stanisław Gawłowski has given his consent to be held liable in the event of what charges. First of all, the allegation made by the prosecutor's office regarding the fact that during the public office of State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, he demanded and accepted a property benefit in the form of two TAG Heuer watches. Secondly, he agreed to the charge, which is the second charge, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] that he urged us to present a property benefit of at least 200 000. zł. [[What are you saying? You're manipulating me right now.]] Third, the third plea put forward by the D.A.'s office... [[What's this? Prosecution or report?]] ...this is that he accepted a property benefit of at least 170 thousand. zł. Fourthly, as far as the fourth plea is concerned, Mr Gawłowski made a statement that he agrees to be held responsible in this respect... [[Do you know you're violating the rules?]] ...though it turned out - I suggest you change the attorney - that the prosecution made a mistake in this regard, as far as... [[Plagiarism was committed by the D.A.'s office.]] ...as far as the protection of classified information is concerned. Then the article did not really apply. The fifth charge that he took possession of the authorship and misled himself about the authorship of some other people's works by using their own... [[Manipulation from the Seym Hall.]] ...in a social high school doctoral dissertation entitled: Rural development management using structural pensions in agriculture. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission shared these suggestions, gave faith to those suggestions which appear in the prosecutor's proposal. Here I will read one of the fragments of this proposal. [[Shame on you, sir. Shame on you.]] We read in it that during the interview as a suspect Tomasz P. explained, among other things, that he had knowledge from Krzysztof B. that he was passing on sandwiches, i.e. money, for the election campaign, among others. Stanisław Gawłowski. [[What is it, marshal?]] In another place: Interrogated as a suspect Krzysztof B. explained that if he did not transfer money to help with the election campaign of Stanisław Gawłowski... [[This is an outrage!]] ...there's no chance of a tender for an investment: a stormgate. He had these conversations with Stanisław Gawłowski in person, swimming on a motorboat or on scooters. In another place we read: Interviewed as a suspect on 21 July, Krzysztof B. explained, among other things, that as regards the money transferred to Stanisław Gawłowski before the parliamentary elections in 2011, which took place in August, Krzysztof B. made a payment of a total of 230 thousand from the bank account between 9 and 12 August, which consisted of 100 thousand, 50 thousand. And 80,000. So the committee, in discussing this issue, believed it, hence the decision. [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is not a report.]] [[Voice from the court: Mr. Marshal, what's the result of the match?]] On the other hand, the relevant part was the resolution on consent to the application, as you already know, of a preventive measure. What was the result? On two points, first of all, from the fact that, as the proposal states, there are indications as set out in the Article. Paragraph 247 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union 1 Code of Criminal Procedure and other Articles, in conjunction with Article. 258 § 1, as regards the detention and subsequent application of the preventive measure against the abovementioned. in order to safeguard proper conduct. As we read in the proposal, and the committee has divided this opinion, in the light of the evidence gathered in the present case, it must be stated that the concern of matatism on the part of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski is real. [[What kind of votes?]] [[The sentence was given by your Member for your permission. This is an outrage.]] The second condition for such a measure is that the actions referred to in this proposal presented by the prosecution, in particular points 1, 2 and 3, are punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years. I would like to stress here that the fear of motherhood, as well as the seriousness of these acts, the threat of punishment up to the age of 8, cause that measure to be or may be applied. [[You're talking about a fellow Member. What threat of motherhood?]] Let me remind you, Members, that one of the presidents of one of the major cities has recently been arrested and that this measure has been applied to him after adoption...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u543	Mr President, is this part of the committee's report?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u544	...at the charge of the bet...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u545	Mr President, is this part of the committee's report? [[Sir, this has nothing to do with the case.]] [[Voices from the room: No. No.]] These examples, so to speak, walking away from this? Please follow the committee's report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u546	I want to make it clear that one of the presidents who was charged... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Get out of here! What president of the city?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u547	Mr President, have you heard what I just said? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Kara!]] But did you hear what I just said? [[Violation of the Sejm's seriousness!]] Did you hear what I just said? So you can stick to the committee's report and not get off the subject, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u548	Ladies and gentlemen! We should apply the principle of equality to the law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Therefore, if, in relation to persons who have committed criminal offences... [[Rooster voice!]] ...to get rid of freedom until the age of eight... [[And Kaminski? What about the mustache?]] ...therefore, and in the case of Mr Gawłowski, similar measures should be applied. [[Voice from the room: What about Rooster?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would therefore like to remind you that the committee is proposing to accept a proposal from the head of the West Pomeranian Department of the Department of Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 20 December to allow the Sejm to stop and apply a preventive measure in the form of... [[Can Duda pardon you? They're all equals to the law?]] ...the temporary arrest of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Thank you so much for your cooperation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u549	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. [[It's been a long time since there was such an unprecedented violation of the rules.]] The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's how it is with PiS. Yeah, I gave up immunity on my own because I wanted to stand trial and all those talking and disgusting accusations to throw away there. But you can see that even my good intentions are being used against. Yeah, the PiS can only do that. I'm here today to present a motion from the Attorney General to consent to my arrest and arrest. Before I go over a few words about the absurd accusations made by Minister Ziobra, I would like to make a few general comments. Law and Justice, or, in fact, the PiS, has been doing everything possible since the beginning of this term of office of the Sejm to lead to the possibility of imprisoning their political opponents. In some ways this proposal today is the crowning of the entire process of destroying the Polish constitutional system. You destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, you destroyed an independent prosecutor's office, you're trying to destroy an independent judiciary just so that your Żoliborz satrapa can point out further opponents to go to the cell. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Free, free.]] [[Hey, hey.]] You are faithfully imitating the actions of your colleagues from Putin's Russia. This is because you want to intimidate any resistance to your authority. [[Get to the point.]] That's why you're holding up demonstrators, punishing them with tickets for protests against you, separating yourselves with police cordons as part of the monthly hate sessions that you're holding on the graves of our mutual friends. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You want to destroy resistance and intimidate the opposition, because every truth is dangerous to you... [[Sit down, man.]] ...and the thought of losing power frightens you. [[Applause]] For almost three years, you haven't found any evidence that you've been preaching for years of corrupting previous governments, and yet every day we can watch you steal state property, acting like invaders, [[Applause]] who got into the channel+ program. [[Applause]] Just like your boss, Jarosław Kaczyński, who built the entire huge estate of his foundation on public property, and so do you every day steal from poor people and transfer state property to your own pockets. [[Applause]] [[Let me see your watch.]] Your takeover of the D.A.'s office and services was intended not only to give political opponents the opportunity to press charges, but above all to protect you from criminal liability. He's here with us tonight in the gym, over there, at the gallery, Fr. Tomasz Jęgierski, president of the "Sos" Foundation for Life, who helps children victims of the war in Iraq, Syria and other countries in the Middle East. To Fr. A few years ago, he came by Marek Pawlak, assistant to the current Mr Kornel Morawiecki, and proposed support from the Wielkopolska Credit Bank, which was then managed by the current Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The condition for this aid was the payment of 96 thousand. Evil in favor of Cornel Morawiecki and his organization... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ... Solidarity Fighting. On 5 January 2013, Cornel Morawiecki... [[Let's get to the point, sir. Watches, please.]] [[Listen to the premiere.]] ...he received the money, and at the request of the priest, he signed it as a loan. We don't have Prime Minister Morawiecki here, but there are prosecutors. I hope they're on this case because it's an official report, Ms. District Attorney. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Morawiecki, the public question is: Are you corrupt? [[Applause]] Did you deposit child support from your bank on the condition that the money was transferred to your father? [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u551	I apologize, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u552	Is the condition... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u553	Sorry, sir, one second. Mr. President, one second, one second. Does this have anything to do with this case we're discussing right now? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Just stick to the subject, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u554	I'm holding it together, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u555	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u556	If you hear a story that you can hear in a moment from Fr. It is true that we have the first Prime Minister in Poland's history, who took money to the family to serve poor children. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Let me see your watch.]] [[Pick up your sleeves.]] Mr. Attorney General, do you know that this week, the headquarters of the SOS Foundation for Life were brutally searched? Did you know that 94-year-old woman, Fr. Is he being intimidated by a search? What are you doing, Mr. District Attorney? How do you oversee the services you're subject to? Will Mr Morawiecki or his father Morawiecki return the money he took from his children? It is no coincidence that during the rule of law and justice we fall in the rankings of the fight against corruption. The fact that you haven't even found a trace of corruption in the previous governments of the Civic Platform makes you so nervous that you have to make accusations based on the statements of your activists. Yes, the statements of your activists. You have talked about this for so long, but you forgot to add that the prosecution's chief witness is your activist, a member of law and justice, who was accused of corruption in 2014... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...and only in 2016 he remembered that in 2011 during the election campaign as a member of the PiS he gave me a bribe. [[He's a member of the PiS.]] After giving this lying discourse, he obtained the status of an extraordinary witness to the Crown, that is, an extraordinary relaxation of the sentence. But it's not over. [[What did he do?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Why did a member of the government go to Mr Morawiecki?]] Who's gonna believe that the PiS activist just handed over the money in 2011? It's your activist who's been lying to me that you've rewarded not only with release from jail, but also with his wife's promotion in the government administration. It's happened in the last few weeks. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Today he is in the local PiS elite, and his PiS friends no longer need to threaten Joachim Brudziński that they will reveal his relationship with him. These allegations that you have made against me have been ridiculed by independent journalists for several months. [[Independents?]] Further allegations are based on the statements of those who, thanks to these talks, have improved the procedural situation. Luke L. and Mieczysław O. - both working at the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. Łukasz L. - as was commonly said at the Institute - is a family of PiS MEPs, Mr Legutka. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Mieczysław O. was recently an advisor in the political office of Minister Jan Szyszko in the government of Beata Szydło. [[Scandal!]] It's these people, these two gentlemen are asking me to accept a bribe in the form of two watches. Meanwhile, the D.A.'s office is lucky to have it. I'm just wondering why he's not responding yet. I found pictures of one of those corrupt criminals from 2013, in which this photograph on his hand clearly shows a watch that was supposed to be handed to me in 2011. [[Your watch?]] DA, let's do this. You have these pictures. You guys should've been here a long time ago. [[Applause]] Abolish that plea. And the watch that the D.A.'s office kept with me has been in my possession since 2007. There are pictures, for example. in 2008, the D.A.'s office also has them. More, I have proof of purchase of this watch from 2007. [[Applause]] Today your entire policy is falling apart because it is based on a lie, and the prosecution and the justice system were needed to sanction these lies. Similarly, lies are based on the prosecution's request to waive my immunity, arrest and arrest. I gave up my immunity. I'm ready to go to court. A lie and a crime is also based on your application, the Attorney General's Office, arrest and arrest. The Sejm Analysis Office has asked two legal authorities to answer questions as to whether this request may contain unpunished content from the comments to the Penal Code. The answer is clear: this is a crime. Meanwhile, in a plagiarized application, the prosecution demands that my immunity be lifted due to the alleged plagiarism of doctoral work. Allegedly, my plagiarism was evaluated by the university authorities who gave me a doctorate and did not find any breach at work. On the other hand, these studies clearly indicate that the application submitted to the Sejm is an application which contains a plagiarism and violates the law. [[Applause]] High Seym! The D.A., who was desperate to get to me, analyzed my entire life. The only thing they have found is the statements of those interested in obtaining the kindness of the current authority or directly the activists of the PiS. You're doing... [[You didn't sign it?]] ...all to hide your daily stealing, embezzlement, rewards. You are the most greedy team in the history of Poland. You've come to power by accusing the Platform of financial scams. After almost three years to accuse any of us, you had to use your corrupt activist and member to blackmail me. The D.A.'s scared. Even in the case of an obvious mistake that the photograph of the watch of a bribe on the hand of the complainant has revealed, he does not want to withdraw from the obvious lie charge. They'd rather go on accusing the innocent because they're more afraid of the PiS government than their own consciences. [[Applause]] Do you think that this is the same vote as always? You're wrong. Today, Jarosław Kaczyński wants to make you partners in his crime, [[Applause]] Because putting an innocent man in jail is a crime. I'm standing here not as a criminal with immunity, but as a proud envoy, [[Applause]] who was chosen by you as a victim... [[Poor thing, I'm gonna cry.]] ...to cover your scams and your fear. Citizens voted for me to defend our country from people like you. I'm not afraid of you. [[Applause]] I am convinced that free Poland will claim me and that you will pay for your participation in depriving all Poles of freedom through the introduction of dictatorship. I was chosen by you as a symbol of this imprisonment. I'm probably gonna survive putting handcuffs on my hand... [[Probably.]] ...but you won't lock us all up. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[The court will decide.]] You can't put all of us in jail. You're not gonna put handcuffs on all the Poles. [[Applause]] [[This is a court, not a Sejm.]] You will not shut your mouth to all Poles. [[Applause]] Because the truth will prevail. In a year and a half... [[Voice from the hall: Yes, we will prevail.]] ...your actions, including today's, will be punished fairly, because Poland will prevail. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u557	Thank you, sir. We will proceed to the vote at the next session of the Sejm. [[You're not ashamed of the marshal, are you?]] On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 60th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? You're welcome. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. [[Mr. Marshal, there's a Member.]] Excuse me? [[Game in the O.R.]] Okay, well, let's have a statement. Please sign up for the statement. Okay. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A Pole, a Hungarian, two nephews, and a sword, and a glass. This historical proverb, known to all of us, also works in Hungarian. For hundreds of years, our cultures have penetrated. Hungarians were kings of Poland, Poles were kings of Hungary. We fought together, we died, but we also celebrated. Despite the changing fate of our countries, the Polish-Hungarian alliance remained strong. We could always count on the help of the Hungarians, and they could always count on ours. Hungary was able to oppose Hitler to show us support. Polish society in a heartbreak during the uprising of 1956 provided Hungarians with aid of estimated value of about 2 million American dollars then. The honored blood donors volunteered for collection points so eagerly that new jobs had to be opened. Such aid was not provided by much richer Western countries, although the Cold War was then in the apogee. High Izbo! 23 March - tomorrow - is the Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day, celebrated in both our fellow countries. Parliaments of both countries adopted resolutions on this issue in 2007 by acclamation. On March 14, we celebrated the birthday of Józef Bem, a Polish-Hungarian hero. On March 15, Hungarians celebrate their national holiday. It is a commemoration of the Hungarian revolution of 1848 in which many Poles took part. Two Polish legions fought alongside the Hungarians, one led by General Józef Wysocki, the other by General Józef Bem. They were both well-deserved soldiers of the November Uprising. Józef Bem eventually became the chief commander of the insurgent Hungarian army. After the fall of the uprising, he took refuge in Turkey. He went to Islam so that confession wouldn't be an obstacle to his career in the Turkish army. The general correctly assumed that the Turkish-Russian war would break out. He predicted the Osmans would win it. However, he miscounted that Poles would be able to exploit Russia's weakening and fight independence. Józef Bem died in Aleppo in 1850, even before the outbreak of the Crimean War. About how much the gene was enjoying. Bem in Hungary and how lasting the friendship of our nations was, we could see in 1929. The General's body was exhumed to be buried in his homeland. During the journey through Hungary, the conduct with the coffin was accompanied by a representative company of the Hungarian army. We all know how volatile alliances between states are. Economic interests play a decisive role in their sustainability. An ally sells for a couple of dollars, a new contract, or a few months of peace, which we have sometimes experienced in the past. Therefore, the friendship between Poland and Hungary, which has been going on for hundreds of years and sanctified with liters of blood spilled together, is so precious. It was tested in really difficult times during World War II and when both our countries remained dependent on the Soviet Union. It took great courage and determination to remain faithful in these moments. It is an optimism that the Hungarian-Polish alliance is not only concerned with our governments, but also with the nations. Thank you to our fellow countrymen, who once again went to the Danube on 15 March to celebrate the Hungarian holiday. [[Applause]] I also thank the Hungarians for their participation in our National Independence Day. At the same time, I invite you to celebrate together on 11 November this year. It's gonna be a special day. Together we will be able to celebrate the century of Poland's regaining independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u559	Please, Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, the Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Bravo, Ania.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u560	I just want to say that Fr. The Hungarian didn't give me any money and that the case was in the D.A.'s office because Fr. He blackmailed me into getting some money from him. And that's all I had to say about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u561	Now do you want to speak or not? [[I mean, do you refer to this?]] I just called the PiS Member, didn't I? What's your name? Anna Cicholska, right? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] No, I called Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u562	Mr. Marshal Señor also had a statement, and he was waiting, and I asked, and we let him speak on the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u563	And you're the marshal in charge?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u564	It was as a statement by Mr. Marshal Sr.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u565	Do you want to make a statement or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u566	I have a statement and...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u567	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u568	...at the right time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u569	You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, do you really have to?]] [[Politely, Mr. Marshal, behave yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't teach me politeness, okay? I'm here to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u570	Do you think you were entitled to a marshal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...senior refer to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u571	Member, either you make a statement, or thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u572	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mobiles, operating as a carrier in the northern districts of Mazovia, slowly expires or ceased its activity in the districts of Ciechanowski, Ostręłęcki, Przasnyski, Mławski and Minsk. Mobiles, who is the heir to the old PKS, is the only major company involved in the transport of people. Once it is complete, it will make it very difficult for people from villages, small towns and cities of northern Mazovia to move. You can imagine how older people will travel without their cars, young people to schools in county cities, workers, etc. We're in danger of communications paralysis. I was informed by trade unionists who participated in discussions in 2009 that it was possible for the Marshal of the Mazowieckie Voivodship to take over PKS for proverbial zloty. That's when this kind of buyout wasn't used. I'm pointing out it's untested information. Now we're facing job layoffs and unemployment among transporters, drivers and mechanics. We're in danger of another job wreckage. We've had enough of the ruins of state cold stores, house factories, sugar factories, decommissioned plants. Now for the benefit of future local elections, some interested people promise that the problem after the liquidation of Mobiles is to be addressed by future local authorities. Does the Minister of Transport know anything about this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u573	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u574	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Away the plain, a rare thing elsewhere, where the eye flies, doesn't hump anywhere, doesn't bend into folds, like a smooth table! The Creator was gracious to her, and very generous to her, the family land is Kujawy! - it's Franciszek Becinski's poem, the poet, the author of numerous collections of poems showing the beauty of Kujawy land. As every year in the period preceding Easter in rural areas in Poland, the hostels' circles and various environments, including representatives of municipalities and powiats, display the so-called. Easter tables referring to the traditions of the various regions. I am delighted and proud that these traditions are also cultivated in my native Kujawy land. Last Sunday, an exhibition of Easter tables was organized in the district of Włocławski. Bending from traditional Kujawy Christmas dishes, enjoying both the eye and palate have once again shown that culinary traditions are also important for subsequent generations. It is encouraging that young people, high school students, together with carers, also participated in the preparation of the exhibition. The jubilee exhibition was accompanied by a performance of danced and sung on a kujawy note of children and young people from the band led by Julia Skowronska, on whose hands I thank you for cultivating the musical traditions of Kujawska land, for caring and caring that the music and tradition of our beautiful region is not doomed to oblivion. Thank you for instilling in young people love for the Kujawy land and its traditions. And on the occasion, the inhabitants of Kujaw and all regions of our beautiful homeland, I wish to wish the happy holidays of the Great Night. May the resurrected Christ come into our hearts, filling them with God's joy and power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u575	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two years ago, I made a statement from this speaker about the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed, and I spoke about a monument of gratitude to the Soviet Army standing in the centre of Legnica, whose left-wing local government does not want to remove. I was talking about the duty to the steadfast soldiers cursed to remove the remnants of the Soviet occupation and the symbols of enslavement from public space. And I've seen our duty done. The law passed by us on the prohibition of promoting communism has set a deadline for local governments to remove monuments symbolizing communism from the public space by the end of March this year. Next Saturday, March 24th, the city services of Legnica will dismantle the monument, and the pedestal on which it stood will be demolished. Another historical justice will be done, for it cannot be that it glorifys the monuments of the invaders enslaved to our country and refuses to present monuments to the patriots. History has nothing to do with this. We can't change the story, but everyone should know what it was like. I happen to remember how it was in Legnica during the Soviet occupation. After all, in Legnica was the seat of the Soviet Army Command, the North Soviet Army Group. 1/3 of the city was occupied by the Soviets living in Legnica, command with families, and separated from the rest by a high wall and barbed wire. They called this part Square. The schools were told, or rather lied about Polish-Soviet friendship, and in fact ordinary residents could not establish private contacts or friendships with residents of the Square because it was illegal. The Legnica called then was small Moscow. On 16 September 1993, the last Soviet soldier left Legnica. It took us a quarter of a century to clean up after they were here. And how long will it take to change the mentality of homo sovieticus to homo sapiens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u577	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u578	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Training housing building programs for people who have been diagnosed with intellectual disabilities and moderate mental disorders, in Scandinavian countries and in Germany are highly developed. In our country this kind of disabled help it is still, you can say, novum. Training apartments are mainly small centers, where there are several dozen or so people living permanently. There they learn to live on their own: how to take care of their health, manage their own budget, prepare meals, clean up, shop, and buy medicines. The tutor's tutors spend their time on their own, do business in offices, travel, and participate in recreational and cultural events. In the area of the town and the municipality of Nowa Sarzyna there are two training centers for 40 people with mental disabilities to varying degrees. As part of the project, Training has been making master since July Ub. r. such apartments in practice work in Nowa Sarzyna. In February this year. as a result of cooperation of local government, local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship and State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities as part of the programme: such a partnership was launched in Wola Zarczycka. Training apartment is an excellent alternative to social services. Moreover, in addition to the fact that the scheme is disabled, it can have an additional financial advantage for the state budget as it relieves social aid. This success is also due to local activists and volunteers. The effect would not have been so spectacular if it had not been for the involvement of such people as Marek Piechuta, the president of the Association of Good House in Wola Zarczycka, Vice President Tomasz Sienko and other members of this association or Fr. Józef Łobodziński, parish priest of Wola Zarczycka. For this I thank them from this place sincerely. High Izbo! On behalf of myself, people with disabilities, as well as their families, residents of the Ledajski, Niedański and Rzeszowski districts, I would like to thank the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska for leaning on these problems. Such real support will help these people to start a new, independent life in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-22-sejm-60-3.u579	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 60th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 61st session of the Sejm, convened on 11 and 12 April 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 03]]
