ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Monika Wielichowska, Jarosław Szlachetka and Arkadiusz Marchewka. The first part of the session will be Mr Monika Wielichowska and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Monika Wielichowska and Jarosław Szlachetka. I ask the Member to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 11, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 13.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 3:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Labour Code Reforms - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 16, - Parliamentary Chess Team - hour 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u3	Thank you very much, Member. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - facilitating the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in print 2713 and 2714 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question on the introduction of additional incentives for professionals from the IT industry is asked by Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Szarama from Law and Justice. The question is addressed to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Please, the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u4	Dear Marshal! Minister! Poland is currently a leader in the IT industry in our part of Europe. Our IT engineers, software testers, IT system architects, cybersecurity managers represent the strength of our sector and the entire IT industry. However, with the development of the industry, measures should be taken that would effectively encourage the arrest of current specialists in our country. Businesses, IT companies are asking for a reduction in taxes imposed on IT professionals. It is no secret that our specialists would be happy to attract other countries. A successful solution could be to reduce the rate of income tax and to recognise the creation of computer programs as research and development activities. I would therefore like to ask: Are efforts being made to effectively encourage IT professionals to further develop their businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u5	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marcin Ociepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! At the beginning, I would like to thank you very warmly for the task of this question, because we are really close to the development of the IT industry and everything that is involved, including secondary education, and perhaps above all, at a higher level when it comes to computer scientists, and we are trying very hard not only to keep up with the world but to be at the forefront. This is, of course, related to the diagnosis of the situation and to the diagnosis of the challenges facing the world, including Poland, in terms of innovation. Today, when we are at the threshold of the fourth industrial revolution in the economy, based on knowledge and data, in which robotics, the development of artificial intelligence, energy storage are to play a key role, we understand that all these aspects will radically change the economic image of the world, including Poland. As far as tax matters are concerned, the answer is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. We as the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology certainly want to maintain the limit of 30 times the minimum wage when calculating the pension contribution. I would like to say that today we see that at this moment Poland is an absolute leader in the FinTech industry and everything that involves it. According to Global Financial Centres Index rankings, which examine the competitiveness of major financial centres, we are ranked 45th in the world, in Europe - 12. We are the leading financial centre in Central and Eastern Europe. Doing Business 2017 ranking Poland ranks high, 24th place. In turn, the report of the Basel Financial Supervision Committee shows that Poland is one of the 14 countries most supporting the FinTech industry. In Poland, global banks such as Credit Suisse, UBS and Citi were located in their support and outsourcing centres. I say this not only to express my pride, but above all to say that we understand that the world is changing very quickly and it is our job to maintain this position and even to gain an ever better position. That's why we're investigating all kinds of legal acts. The Innovation Act itself introduced improvements in the legal order of abolishing income tax on intellectual and industrial property imports, introduced tax incentives for R &amp; D, gradually extending the list of eligible costs, extended the period during which an entrepreneur can deduct costs incurred for R &amp; D activities from 3 to 6 years, and introduced the possibility of cash-back for newly established R &amp; D companies. We are also preparing changes related to the initiative of a simple public limited liability company, which allows for an intellectual contribution, calculated as well as a financial contribution, highlighting its importance. I would also like to say that I have commissioned the Department of Economic Analysis, which in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology oversees the continuous monitoring of the development of the industry to be followed by what solutions are being put in place in the world. We are ready and open to dialogue with the industry to create the best possible conditions. In conclusion, I would like to mention one more thing. There was a question of recognising that the creation of computer programs is a research and development activity. In Poland, this is already possible in many areas. We would have to talk about details, but already there are entities that are considered to be R &amp; D actors, and we will certainly want to go in this direction to expand this catalogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u7	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Women represent half of the world's population, but in many cases women are still discouraged from developing careers or aspiring to stereotypically regarded as men. New ways of education and encouraging women to become interested in new technologies have already been implemented in the United States since the early teenage age. This challenge also awaits the Polish IT industry. Is the Ministry planning any solutions in this regard? I know that the Minister may not be prepared to answer that question right now. If you don't have some information right now, I would very much like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u9	Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We are a resort in which the boss is a woman who absolutely sets trends when it comes to innovative activities. We're the ones who are trying to chase her into this professionalism, and I'm gonna light it up. Of course, that's an aspect, I'd say, cultural. I'm not quite sure that there's a lot of room for government to do here, that the government is supposed to interfere in any way. Excellent actions were organized by technical universities, e.g. popular action under the slogan: Girls in polytechnics! I can only say that, yes, we are taking a number of promotional measures which aim to highlight the importance of technical education also in the gender dimension, but I am generally far from thinking in terms of gender in this regard. I can only encourage all entrepreneurs and all universities to bet on women, because on the example of our resort and not only can we see that it is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Dariusz Starzycki, Andrzej Gawron, Jerzy Paul and Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice. The question concerns the government's efforts to improve the efficiency of the rescue and fire-fighting systems and to support voluntary fire-fighting units. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I ask you, Mr Dariusz Starzycki, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Numerous threats of a diverse nature, such as fires, traffic accidents, natural forces, environmental pollution, cause the state and society to need efficient rescue and fire-fighting services that will be able to respond quickly and effectively to these events. In Poland, these tasks are carried out by the State Fire Department and voluntary fire department units, some of which are included in the emergency and extinguisher system and some remain outside the system. I therefore ask the Minister to provide information on the activities of the Ministry of the Interior and the Government to support these services in terms of equipment and improvement of the necessary infrastructure for this activity. How did the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration take care of the efficiency of the national fire and rescue systems and voluntary firefighters financially? Have and possibly what legal or organisational measures been taken to improve the system? What is the amount of budget appropriations specifically directed to voluntary fire-fighting units over the years?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u13	I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would just like to complete this statement on an important question in my opinion concerning cooperation with local governments. How does the Minister assess cooperation with local authorities? Are the municipalities involved in supporting the ministry's activities? I would also like to ask about the environmental fund, the State Forests. Do all these institutions support the ministry's activities and in what system? I don't know if it's a very complicated system. Does the Ministry have an idea to improve it and that this equipment that goes to volunteers should be obtained in a simpler way? And here's the question: Can you tell the Minister how many fire-fighting vehicles you expect to deliver in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u15	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members, Fire department is the most multifunctional of all services. We know what tasks he's doing today. In 1/4 of those that lied in her genesis, so putting out fires, and in the remaining 3/4 it responds to very different, different types of local threat. I don't want to define them because there would be no time, and you know what the fire department does, how multi-tasking, multi-functional it is. Maybe I'll just say, because it works on the imagination that there's actually no minute for firefighters to go anywhere in Poland so that they don't intervene. In 2017, more than 520 thousand left. times. It is easy to count, as it is: about every minute, firefighters react to various threats. Professional service, State Fire Department, and volunteer service work together as two lungs of the same organism, as two lungs of the same system and are very closely linked. Due to the role of the emergency and fire-fighting system, due to its role in the fire protection of fire-fighting units, due to their role in the State's and citizens' security systems, the Law and Justice Government supports the state and voluntary fire-fighting unit and the fire-fighting system in various ways. Maybe it's worth saying that the national fire escape system includes 501 fire escape units of the State Fire Department, 4404 units of CSR incorporated into the national fire rescue system, 5 factory fire department, 5 military fire protection units and 1 airport fire department. Together, it's 4916 units. They are supported by more than 12 thousand. TSOs that are not part of this system, because the volunteer fire department is together 16 217. This is a powerful area, very numerous units located throughout Poland. I would like to say that the Government of Law and Justice, and then the majority of the Sejm, when adopting the Modernization Act, incorporated CSR into the programme of modernization of uniformed services for the years 2017 and 2020 with a total amount allocated for this purpose for 4 years for four services almost PLN 9200 million. From this fire department receives over PLN 1700 million, and volunteer fire department units receive PLN 501 million. Volunteer firefighters were not included in the first modernisation programme, which was in 2007. Now, because of their role, they were included with the amount I gave you. We're increasing annual budget expenditures for volunteer firefighters. Between 2015, the year in which Law and Justice were still in opposition and 2018 and, therefore, the current year, there was an increase of 30.4%. In 2018, budget subsidies for TSOs' units from and outside the national emergency and emergency systems amount to 137 585 000. zł. At this point, I would like to thank those Members of the Law and Justice who, as part of their amendments to the State budget for 2018, proposed specific amounts to the TSOs and, in some cases, to the State Fire Department. This is a significant strengthening of the financing of this system. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, we integrate efforts - this is the answer to one of the questions that have been asked - we take joint action with different actors to purchase as many equipment as possible, especially fire-fighting cars, as well as other types of equipment needed by the fire-fighting system. And so for 2018, the current year, we planned to integrate efforts and to create such a financial assembly of different entities to purchase at least 382 fire-fighting cars for CSR units across the country. In fact, these cars will probably be bought more, I am convinced that clearly over 400, but on the list that has been agreed, there are 382 cars today. This consists of the funds of both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the national rescue and forestry system, and - it must be stressed that in more amounts than budget resources - local government units, national environmental fund and voivodship environmental funds, State Forests and sometimes other entities, also funds derived from write-off from insurance companies. Do you remember the change made by the High Sejm in this respect in order to harmonise the financing system for the rescue and fire-fighting system [[♪ The bell ♪]] voluntary firefighters. Today these decisions are cumulative in the hands of one entity...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u17	Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...who is responsible for the entire system, i.e. the chief of the state fire department, and at the same time the head of civil defense of the country. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! General! I have a question partly related to the fire department: Does the General Command of the State Fire Department support financial and organisational training and leisure camps for youth fire teams? What are the funds transferred to these camps? What success do they enjoy among young people? And what is their number compared to the number in previous years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u19	Thank you very much. And once again, I ask Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, I did not have time to answer all the questions, and I also wanted to add some important information about what was raised in the first round of questions. Let me answer that in writing because it's worth it. Here, however, I will mention only the very important financial support provided by the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General of the so-called. The Justice Fund of the TSOs. This is over PLN 100 million for 2018. These funds are passed on gradually in different voivodships. This process is already very advanced. Thanking Mr Ziobra for this allocation, I would also like to thank Minister Teresa Czerwińska for agreeing to spend this money for this purpose. And now the answer to the Member's question. Of course, we support youth fire camps with financial means. In 2017, 3,300 young people participated in these camps and the funding amounted to PLN 2 million. In 2018, we predict, because this process is ongoing, that there will be much more young people involved - it is estimated that more than 4000, we have information about 4026 such young people - with funding for this purpose for the amount of PLN 2.8 million, so this is growth for 2017 In the years 2017 and 2018 the camps are organized by the State Fire Department with activists, members of voluntary firefighters in the field, especially in powiats. I want to thank all those who are involved very much, because this is a very important element of education for activities that will serve the security of all citizens. There was a question - I also use the fact that I have time - for cooperation with local governments and other actors. That's what we're doing together. This cooperation is good, and even, I can say, excellent, because everyone understands the needs of the fire department. We support them in cooperation, each subject, with the means available. And thanks to centralizing the decision - this is the first time possible this year - we can buy more fire-fighting cars, because we complement each other with these contributions. Within the framework of such financial assembly, financial resources from different sources can be more rationally supported together. Finally, I will, in principle, remind you that you know this, because it was a public information often cited, that since 2016, we have introduced a new system of grants for TSOs. There is no duality that the Board of Directors [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Association of Volunteer Firefighters passed over some of the budget money, and the chief of the State Firefighter's department. Today it is all in one hand and it is very good, it is used to build uniformity of the rescue and extinguisher system and, what is important, the voice of the volunteer fire department is taken into account, which in times past could not get through with the message about their needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. And please, the next question is asked by Sławomir Nitras and Paweł Olszewski, the Civic Platform, on the renegotiation of contracts and contracts with public investment contractors. This is a question for the President of the Council of Ministers. First, Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u22	Good morning, ma'am. Thank you, Marshal, and good morning, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen! The case is extremely serious. We have experience from 2011, 2012, 2013. This was the first time that this situation happened and we lacked some experience at the time, what to do with it, today we have a similar threat, but we already have experience, we have tooling, we have amended laws, we know that there is the possibility of renegotiating contracts signed with investment contractors. First of all, we are talking, of course, about road investments that can simply be unrealised. Let me remind you - the law that we amended in 2014 allows for this in the event of a sharp increase in prices, labour costs, material costs, VAT changes, tax changes. The reverse VAT is what is most relevant to subcontractors, which threatens subcontractors. Ladies and gentlemen, today - this is a massive phenomenon - either on the verge of bankruptcy, or they are considering leaving the company's investments, which signed contracts in 2015 and 2016. They're actually in a dramatic situation. We are dealing with a situation where they withdraw from contracts or negotiations, withdraw their offers. Last story, road S3, episode of Kamienna Góra - Lubabka - nine companies withdrew their offers, knowing that they could not be realised. That's the problem. In the Świnoujście tunnel, which you are proud of, the contractor has a problem with bank guarantees, is unable to sign a contract. Questions: Does the government see this problem? Is the government talking to these companies? Is the government willing to negotiate or renegotiate these contracts, knowing the passing of time? This is not a new problem, we have been observing this problem for at least months and we are curious about the effects of government action and government action plans. That's what the contractors are waiting for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] subcontractors, co-operation companies and the European Union. It's about whether or not we're gonna use that money. This is a very serious problem, and I'm asking for information on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u23	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Marek Chodkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government generally sees this problem. We started cooperation with contractors in 2016 with all state contracts concerning roads as well as railways. At the moment we continue this within the framework of the so-called. Expert advice. The expert board is a platform for cooperation and exchange of views, which aims to develop better conditions in relations between the investor and the contractor. What is now a big concern and an object of great interest in the Ministry is price valorization. In the forum of experts' councils, contractors raise the issue of significant price increases, which cause that contracts concluded with investors, with a state investor, still unfinished contracts, are no longer profitable for them, and can contribute to the bankruptcy of the contractor. Some of the current implementation contracts provide for a maximum value cap of 1% using indicators developed by the CSO: the index of road facilities prices and the index of bridge facilities prices. It doesn't satisfy the performers. Contractors would like to negotiate with the investor the valorisation of their remuneration in order to cover the losses resulting from the above-average increases in the cost of key materials. [[Objectively.]] However, the judicial validation investigation considers it time-consuming, costly and unsolved problem, which is the lack of resources for ongoing action and completion of tasks on time. Sometimes the public discourse raises the issue of various costs relating to possible claims on this subject, while they are very different and not supported by data. The Ministry of Infrastructure doesn't underestimate this case, but it's calm about it. We want to talk about specifics, not speculate. The collection of such data would require economic operators to verify the performance of individual contracts, specific reasons, causes and effects on time and cost. In the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the use of mechanisms prior to contractual terms and conditions, and more, because taking into account the value of payments to contractors, should be preceded by an analysis of whether this is acceptable under the applicable rules and what legal and financial consequences this will have for both parties. In view of the above, the Ministry has come to the conclusion that the following issues need to be considered: Will the changes in the amount of payments to contractors not result in financial corrections for European Union funding? Is it possible to change the amount of the State Treasury's obligations in contracts already concluded above the expenditure planned so far? Would payments be illegal public aid? This is very important. Does not the increase in the remuneration for valorisation on the part of the contract already concluded constitute a breach of the Public Procurement Law? The Resort asked the Centre for EU Transport Projects, the Ministry of Finance, the Public Procurement Office and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection for an opinion on the possibility of applying such a solution, which would allow for the development of the position of the government party and could assist the contracting parties in reaching an agreement in this difficult situation. These works are still ongoing, the final recommendations have not yet been presented. At the same time, the expert board raised the question that price increases in the construction sector are not reflected in data produced by the CSO, whose competences include a detailed price analysis based on data received from reporting entities. Therefore, representatives of the CSO were invited to a meeting of the expert board to examine the reasons for the differences between the indicators developed by the CSO and the actual prices on the market. The GUS representatives explained the methodology used by the institution. It turned out that reporting companies inform CSO about the prices of construction works and works on the basis of contracts already concluded, not actual costs. In practice, this means that price increases... [[We've solved the deal problem.]] ...appears in CSO statistics with delay. The representatives of the CSO declared their willingness to cooperate and to be open to possible changes to the procedure adopted so far. Consequently, the CSO took action in cooperation with representatives of the road industry to change the methodology so that indicators reflect the actual prices of goods and services. As part of these activities, the CSO consulted selected contractors, reporting companies, in order to develop a new, modernised version of the so-called. Form C4, which you must know. Currently, GUS conducts research in cooperation with contractors, and if the results of these studies are successful, the GUS index, which is cited in the contracts of state investors, will reflect market trends in a better way than before. Another issue is the increase in wages for construction workers. Employee shortages are getting worse and worse. In the Ministry of Infrastructure, studies were carried out on the possibilities of facilitating employment in the construction industry, e.g. workers from selected countries of Eastern Europe or Asia. These are the needs of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy to facilitate the employment of foreigners, including the construction industry. To my knowledge, the regulation is being prepared by the Minister of Labour. In conclusion, the Ministry of Infrastructure is open to interviews with contractors. We do not deviate from discussions, including those on price valorisation. We see problems in the market, including increases in prices of certain materials. But we're not going to panic, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The kind he's trying to induce. We are talking and we will continue to talk substantively about the particular problems that are really bothering the performers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u25	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Paweł Olszewski, the Civic Platform, to ask a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I love you. Five minutes to answer the question and not answer it, it's really a big deal. With all due respect for what you said. You say you've been talking to contractors since 2016. It is 2018, no solutions and no ideas to solve this problem you have. The result will be that you - you are so indecisive, so afraid to make any decisions, seeing the problem that you have said - will lead to a situation in which Polish performers, among others. Polish contractors, and subcontractors who are already coming from buildings - I am very close to the express road S5, subcontractors are coming from buildings - they will not implement the assumptions of the National Road Construction Programme, which I prepared in the Ministry and which the government adopted on 8 September 2015. Worse still, we will lose money from the European Union. The state as a resort of infrastructure leads to disaster, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for which all citizens will pay. We will have Poland dug up with fallen Polish companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u28	...without the programme being implemented and with the billions lost from the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u29	Thank you very much, sir. And once again, I ask Minister Mark Chodkiewicz to answer the question. [[Decisions, Minister, when do you decide?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened to your opinion with great respect, but I have not heard the question. [[When are the decisions?]] Because I presented the problems, I said we were talking to the UOKiK, talking to the Ministry of Finance, talking to CUPT... [[When do you decide, Minister?]] ...and these decisions are being made right now. I'm not giving you a deadline. [[But you know the program is until 2023.]] I'm afraid I won't give you that deadline today. [[And you haven't done anything at the moment...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u31	You're welcome... [[...to get the road construction going.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[What signal did you transmit?]] Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jarosław Sachajko and Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15, on the current state of spread of ASF disease in feral pigs and in flocks of breeding pigs, taking into account the measures taken to combat the disease from the office and aid solutions for the affected farmers, and on the presentation of options for the eradication of the disease in the event of its spread in western Poland - the question to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, the first question - Mr Jarosław Sachajko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The issue is extremely important - especially important for Polish farmers, but also for all citizens. Polish farmers are very good in pig production, there is a demand for such production. Last year the production of pigs in Poland increased slightly because farmers know how to do it - they know how to do it so that it somehow pays off. Unfortunately, the disease is spreading. ASF destroys other family farms, destroys the knowledge we had, destroys Polish villages. I have asked the Marshal here a very precise question and I would ask for an equally precise answer. ASF disease is combated out of office and what measures are taken to finally end this disease in Poland? Minister, the third year is sleepy, the third winter is sleepy. We did not succeed as a Polish country... I also feel responsible because maybe I didn't scream enough, I didn't push enough to lead to depopulation of wild boars in the environment. If we show weakness in fighting, it seems a very simple disease... Of course, we can talk, and I'm sure I'm about to hear how the others didn't handle it. Don't repeat those arguments because they're wrong. We learn, we should learn from the mistakes of others, so let's not repeat it, it's about what we will do and what are the variants of the fight, if in a moment this disease will appear in western Poland, where we have the largest herds. It's gonna be a billion-dollar loss. What are we gonna do right now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To stop the spread of this disease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u33	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, sir, for this question. The problem of African swine fever is the most serious economic problem in agriculture, alongside drought, other atmospheric phenomena that have happened and happen. But it is also, as in the case of drought, independent of man, independent of humans, a virus that, fortunately, does not harm people, does not transfer to humans. Bastard is what the media has been doing lately, writing about products from ASF sites. It is a bastardity, it is even sabotage towards the Polish economy, because only healthy animals go into processing, regardless of where Poland is, all ill are disposed of. And that's what we need to talk about, and that's what we need to talk about. It is forbidden to keep quiet how the media bastards try to instigate Poles and public opinion in the world, just like the opposition in which you are not, but this opposition, the bastard opposition, the pig opposition. [[Voice from the room: Lord, what are you saying?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u35	Minister, I'm very sorry, but I don't think that's... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Pig opposition nomen omen. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are the Minister of...]] Minister, you're welcome to weigh your words. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...you feel the dignity of your office? What are those words?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: What the opposition is doing about African swine fever - without the Member, I am not talking about you - is the same bastardity and filth. You mustn't get sick... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Marshal...]] ...even if this disease concerns animals... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...it is not with dignity...]] ...and it doesn't concern people... The disease must not be used against the Polish economy and Polish agriculture. You will answer to God for this. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But this country you are destroying Poland and Polish agriculture.]] ...that disease has indeed not been dealt with by other countries. The fight against this disease, I said it once, we learn constantly - we learn constantly, because there was no case in the world when the disease occurred simultaneously in pigs, in breeding, and in the environment, i.e. wild boars. There was also no accident, there is no country in the world that has militarized hunting. If we had a militarized hunt in uniform, we'd send this service to fire all the wild boars. Hunting in Poland is voluntary, it is a voluntary association of people. Hunting is poubeckie, because civilians were hunters for communes because a normal man didn't get permission for guns. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mother! Doctor, doctor, doctor to the O.R.]] My grandfather was a hunter before the war as a farmer. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Doctor to the O.R., Marshal.]] [[The voice from the room: What is it with you?]] Can I have some peace, please? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: My grandfather was A hunter before the war. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I wanted to ask for peace in the courtroom, and for the Minister to weigh his words, because the Minister is also an MP and he should... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: My grandfather was a hunter just to protect his own fields. After the hunting war, elite sport was made for the public, because you had to be either in the ORMO, or in the PZPR, or in the PSL, or in some other party, to get a permit for weapons. After all, someone who was in opposition - my father was a soldier of the National Armed Forces, people - when my father did not get permission for weapons. [[Voice from the hall: And Szyszka supposedly after the war...]] He wouldn't get it because he had a gun, but during the war. So after my grandfather, my father couldn't become a hunter. I'm not a hunter either, 'cause I wouldn't get a permit for a gun for a commune. [[And lucky for you. But it must have been the doctor who decided to allow it.]] We will fight this disease, sir, for a long time and we must be aware of it. Now all we have to do is minimize its effects. Of course, the most important thing is to reduce the population of boars. However, the reconstruction of hunting into thinking as it was before the war, this is a process for years, because they are unable to financially even farmers, if they were opened to join the wheels, and today it is blocked, to carry it. You have to have tens of thousands of zlotys to become a hunter, because it costs a lot of guns, night vision, to shoot these boars, and there's a lot of other expenses related to being a hunter. This is the first problem we have to solve. And it continues, it is solved by Minister Kowalczyk and will be solved. And our task as an agricultural department is, on the one hand, to strengthen veterinary services primarily, but also border services, all the services responsible for securing farms and, on the other hand, to compensate farmers for any losses. It is simply necessary to compensate farmers for their losses. We've built a system that's already working. At the moment, the work of the government is underway, after the permanent committee of the Council of Ministers, which I am a member of, has been meeting on this matter, on a regulation that introduces two forms of aid to farmers throughout the country. The first concerns costs related to bioinsurance. The farmer will have the right to apply to the agency for a refund of 75% the cost of bioinsurance. That wasn't the way it was, so far it was 50%. And only in ASF areas. Today this will apply throughout the country, after the Council of Ministers has passed of course. And the second action is compensation for farmers who consider that, however, they will not bear the costs of bioinsurance, because they have cows, pigs in the same building - these small farms generally - maybe a horse, maybe a sheep and cannot separate these animals, as they are unable to fence to do, they are unable to do a few disinfection, sealed doors, etc. These are the costs. And these farmers will be able to benefit from compensation for three years for stopping farming. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 136 zlotys a year for each piece, up to 50 pieces... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: ... regardless of the size of the farm. [[Applause]] [[He's embarrassing us.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm asking you for a second question. Mr Sachaiko. [[Member speaks outside of the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u36	I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I very much agree with the part where you said that this is the most important problem of Polish agriculture at the moment. I won't agree that we don't have an influence on it, like we do on drought, where we have a very limited influence, but we do. I don't want to develop the topic of melioration that has been forgotten over the years and which has been destroyed. But as for the other part, the part about depopulation of boars, I think there's a little bit of a bad diagnosis here. I tabled an amendment to the Hunting Law law so that farmers could freely get into hunting circles. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected. So if we legislatively allow it ourselves, that's how it works. What in return, Minister, on these farms [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it because dumping production isn't the solution? And what about those large farms that invested in professional buildings that couldn't be rebuilt? How can we help them? [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Now it will be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u37	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you misunderstood my statement. As far as I'm concerned... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Granny.]] ...to depopulation of wild boars, this is a basic task that must be carried out and implemented. However, I was talking about the difficulties arising from the Ubek past of hunting circles. [[Cupcake.]] And that's all I was talking about. Of course there are noble men there, many hunters are noble men, but I'm talking about the whole system that was created for communes. And I know what I'm talking about. Don't defend it. [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Piotrowicz, Prosecutor.]] If you're defending the bastards, if you're defending the partitions, think about it. And when it comes to helping farmers... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Marshal, calm them down.]] As regards aid to farmers, your marshal, Mr President of the agricultural committee, High Izbo, I have already spoken of these 136 zlotys. That doesn't solve the problem because I know what 130 times 50 is, I can count, but it's just compensation for lost income. But if there's an empty pigsty, then what? It is possible to change the profile using the RDP, there is a special programme for farmers in these areas to change the production profile. I grew up in the village, I am a farmer by birth, I know that the pigsty to turn into a sheepfold - start breeding cattle or take any other direction - or even to a mushroom shop it is not that easy, it requires a lot of investment. The RDP can be used for this. That's one solution. Second solution. I would have been those farmers, in Podlasie, in Mazowsze and in Lublin, where this wave of ASF disease has already passed, encouraged to stay at the farm. I'll tell you why. Of the 7,000. farms in the area where the ASF occurred in pigs, only a small part of them have resigned, most of them continue to grow. And even in a smaller percentage of farms there was a disease. One out of seven hundred farms, sir, is the one in which the disease occurred. Where there are sick boars, I am not talking about Poland, one in 70 farms is the one that affected this most tragic situation related to the need to slaughter pigs. One out of 70, or 69 farms, can still grow and cope with bioinsurance, has not allowed the disease into itself. We suspect various reasons for the transfer. We don't know exactly what the routes of this virus are. We don't know if there's a man's purpose. We do not exclude man's deliberate action in Poland or foreign services. Estonia has directly accused one of the services of the European State, a very eastern state, of deliberately dragging the ASF to an island separated by sea, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which the boar couldn't swim. [[Voices from the O.R. Stonek!]] Don't be silly. Don't be a pest to the Polish countryside. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Stones.]] [[Very good. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u39	However, Minister, I must point out that you have violated the seriousness of the Sejm with your first speech, and I will present this matter to the Sejm Bureau. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. The next question is asked by Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Mr Marek Sowa, Mr Adam Szłapka and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaska, the Modern Club, on the Law on the Supreme Court and the infringement procedure initiated on 2 July 2018 pursuant to Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And Poles, and the European Union, our European partners unfortunately do not buy the lies of PiS politicians on justice. That's why I have specific questions. How is the current government going to behave in connection with the procedure under Article? 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? How does the PiS government intend to respond to a letter from the European Commission calling for the removal of infringements in the Supreme Court Act? Will these be the same used slogans that have absolutely nothing to do with the truth that have been trying to blind our EU partners over the past few months? Do the politicians of PiS intend to respect the possible judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this case to the detriment of the Polish state, i.e. If the Court were to rule in particular that the Supreme Court Act is contrary to the Treaty criteria of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary? Last question: Should the Court of Justice of the European Union issue e.g. The order to stop the exchange of judges in the Polish Supreme Court or to restore them to serve as judges after 65 years of age, who are to retire after 3 July 2018, the PiS government intends to comply with such safeguards or ignore them, as it did in the case of the Białowieża Forest and prohibit the cutting of trees until the final judgment in the case, thus exposing Poles to enormous costs? Let me remind you, 100,000. Euro penalties per day. The importance of the matter of the violation of the rule of law by the PiS was seen, for example, during yesterday's debate in the European Parliament. Unfortunately, the actions of PiS politicians are directed at destroying the independence of the judiciary and were widely criticised yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It should only be emphasized very carefully that this was a criticism only at the address of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u41	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u42	... The PiS government, not our country, and it was an expression of concern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u43	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Simon Szynkowski, aka Sęka, to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u44	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I'll answer your questions. I've got four. I will not really refer to those questions, because, as I understand, you are interested in the answer, not commenting by me too, but the answer to the issues that you are interested in. Indeed, I wanted to say that on 2 July the European Commission launched a pre-trial procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to the government. I will remind you that this is not, as some have tried to claim, the suing of Poland before the Court of Justice or any other element of this procedure. This is the first element of the Article procedure. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As part of this first step, the European Commission has given the Polish government time to reply, until 2 August. So to answer the first question, how is the government going to behave, I would like to say that the Polish Government will reply within the time limit indicated by the European Commission to the letter of formal notice 2017/21/21. What will be the answer? I must leave this question unanswered at the moment, because by 2 August we have time to formulate this answer, so it is difficult for me, Madam, to predict exactly what the government's response will contain. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...the state as you judge the bill...]] If you allow me, I will point out that on 2 July the committee sent a letter of formal notice. It's July 5th, 3 days later, and the time to answer is until August 2nd. I can therefore assure you that, after this time, of course, a second question can be answered. The next two questions are questions that raise certain hypotheses. The Member assumes that the Court of Justice's judgment in this procedure will be delivered, moreover, the Member makes assumptions as to what this judgment will contain and asks for answers to questions, what if... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Right.]] We will not respond to the hypothesis, because the role of the government and the Foreign Ministry that I represent is to refer to the facts... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Responsibility.]] ...and not to the forecasts or hypotheses that you are making, because that would not, I believe, be justified. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Quite the opposite.]] On the other hand, in order to make amends to your questions about the procedure itself, because this may be of interest to you and will also clarify the matter... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, I asked a precise question.]] ...I would like to say that the procedure under Article. 258 is one of the ongoing around 750 proceedings carried out at different stages by the European Commission vis-à-vis the different Member States. There are 34 proceedings against Poland based on this article at the moment, but against other countries, for example, there are cases against Germany - 49 and more, against France - 35, also more, against Spain - 58, against Greece - 46, against Italy - 52. I would also like to point out - already trying to make amends to the State and answer the question about the procedure before the Court of Justice, although this is a hypothetical question - that Poland is carrying out all judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on an ongoing basis and only once in history, the European Commission has launched a procedure for failure to deliver a judgment against Poland. This case concerned the incorrect implementation of the Nitrates Directive - the European Commission is currently planning to close this procedure. Other countries have a problem with the enforcement of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Such cases are currently open 52, against different countries, and there was one against Poland and it will soon be closed. Italy and Greece are at the forefront, there are 10 and 11 cases, respectively, against Spain - seven, and there are two such cases against Luxembourg. Therefore, it is quite clear how Poland refers to the recommendations of the European Commission or to the first stage of management, the letter of formal notice - at this stage we are in the case of a case you are asking whether it is at the stage of a reasoned opinion, i.e. the second step, whether it is in a situation where the case is brought before the Court of Justice. Poland respects all judgments of the Court of Justice. Other countries sometimes have a problem with this. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But please talk about Poland. You're the Polish minister. You didn't answer my question.]] I hope that this answer is satisfactory for you. If not, I would be happy to provide additional information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. And please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! Minister! You said five minutes, the ministry prepared you statistics about 700 cases very nicely, but let's see if they prepared you in addition to these statistics. Please indicate at least one example on the basis of these 700 cases, at least one case which is so important and concerns the violation of the rules of the Article. 2 of the European Treaty and violations of the rule of law. Just give me one example. Do you know these 700 cases? And now, you said five minutes, and you didn't answer any of the questions that were asked. And you yourself said that the call to remedy the deficiencies was the first step in initiating the procedure before the Court of Justice. You know perfectly well that if you do not remedy these shortcomings, this case will be dealt with before the Court. So the question is simple: If you respond to a letter from the European Commission, will you remove the shortcomings that concern the Supreme Court Act? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question you haven't answered, and you haven't answered any of the other questions either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u47	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Minister Simon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u48	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Members, I regret that you may not pay enough attention to my answers to your questions, because I have made it clear that the letter of formal notice, the letter of formal notice, is a pre-trial stage, and therefore, Mr President, is not part of the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, but is merely a pre-trial stage. Therefore, I would ask you to be very precise about this issue here. On the second point, of course, we can prepare a detailed discussion of all 750 cases at the request of your Members... [[One example.]] ...in the current proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. They deal with very different issues, all of them... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: One example.]] ...on the basis of the Article procedure. 258. They also deal with issues that assess certain elements of the functioning of courts in different countries, so if you are interested in this, then of course we will be very happy to point out all of them, just ask that we have some time then... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But you had time.]] ...because it's going to be an extensive piece of material that you'll be able to get acquainted with. [[Then we ask you to prepare such material in writing.]] Well, of course it's possible, but it's gonna take a lot of time here. Of course, a list of 750 pending proceedings... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...you have come prepared.]] ...what they may be about, we will prepare for you. We are counting on you to examine each of these proceedings fairly and to draw appropriate conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is the only such thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question asked by Grzegorz Matusiak, Małgorzata Janowska, Dariusz Kubiak and Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Law and Justice. This is a question on the European Commission's initiative on the state of implementation of the support programme for the transition of mining and high-carbon regions (the Mining Regions Support Platform) - to the Minister of Energy. Please, the question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry of Energy gets very good information about the mining sites. I hope that the Ministry of Energy's initiative will soon have a positive effect on this activity. I've prepared questions about this issue. The last meeting of the working groups under the European Commission's Mining Regions Support Platform initiative was held in February 2018. Please provide further dates of meetings within this initiative this year and information about the related plans of the Polish party. Second question. Has the dialogue between Poland and the European Commission in the framework of the Mining Regions Support Platform initiative been formalised and is there a cooperation strategy in this area? Third question: What are the results of the meeting with representatives of the European Commission during the European Economic Forum in Katowice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u51	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, a representative of the Government for the restructuring of coal by Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I cordially thank you for calling this issue, because actually there is quite important work on the development of the first time post-industrial sites, mainly mining sites, in the Śląskie voivodship. It is about development with the support of the European Commission. If you allow me, I will give you a few dates as the initiative has begun, at which stage we are at. And so the inaugural meeting of representatives of the Polish government with the European Commission as part of the name that appeared, i.e. as part of the Mining Regions Support Platform, took place on 12 October. The initiative was originally intended to be a pilot for our country, to support restructuring processes. Then, after the meeting of 12 October last year, where representatives of other resorts were also present, not only the Ministry of Energy, because there were representatives of the Ministry of Development and Entrepreneurship, representatives of coal companies, social parties, the Commission considered that this programme would be extended and become a programme for other countries of the European Union, given the character of the Mining Regions Support Platform not only in Poland. The next meeting after the exchange took place on 12 December 2017 in Strasbourg. It started a dialogue and exchange of documents, information between the Polish side and the European Commission. The next meeting took place on 12 February this year in Katowice, where before the Congress we discussed the development of relevant projects. In the meantime, there were working meetings of the groups that prepared these official meetings. The next expected meeting will be held on the 12th and 13th in Brussels. It should be noted that Poland further sought to organise this bilateral meeting with the Commission on further project-related steps. It is about the preparation and evaluation by the European Commission of what we have reported because we have submitted 36 projects. On these projects, we have reported funding cards and we are discussing how we could count on the financial support of these projects from the European Commission, which should be the commitment and commitment of the Polish party. The project is attended by the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Investment and Development, representatives of the Marshal's Office in Katowice and Górnośląsko-Załęgów Metropolis. It is important that we make it to the projects by 24 and 25 October, with an end to the COP to be able to announce which projects will be supported by appropriate resources and the European Commission funding path. He also asked about formalising this project. From the very beginning it is based on three levels, starting with the highest annual high-level meetings in Strasbourg - that is, December 2017 - through expert dialogue, i.e. the working groups of the European Commission and the Polish party, so-called. Task forces at the working level set up for bilateral cooperation, i.e. the exchange of relevant projects and the identification of the stage at which they are carried out. All I can say is that the projects have two key criteria: the speed of investment, the speed of creation and implementation of such a project, such an investment as well as its innovation, and thus the element of creating a new quality in post-industrial areas. Today we know that the project involves German, Slovak, Greek and Spanish-related regions. We have initiated this and the countries that have certain elements of the mining area and feel the effects of this are taking part in this project. What are the results of meetings with representatives of the European Commission during the European Economic Forum in Katowice? This was the last meeting. So we passed on and confirmed those 36 projects that we submitted. They have been assessed and planned for us, as part of such an action plan, to receive files according to suggestions and frameworks to be met by the European Commission. We've already done it, and we've sent it. Now in July, as I mentioned, on 11 and 13 July, there will be a meeting at which we will evaluate our projects, some of which have been combined, clarified, so that we can then move on to the next stage of funding. In our conversation with the representatives of the European Commission at the European Economic Congress in Katowice, we stressed that we would like to establish a certain gradation with the Commission, a hierarchy of projects that the European Commission considers relevant to us. We say that we have a few projects and we can implement these projects in some way interchangeably. For us, the funding path, the size of this funding and the pockets for which we will be able to conclude on the means: whether it is a grant or a loan. We have entered a very important stage in the discussion on what measures the Commission will involve in this project, what expectations it will have when it comes to the countries that will enter this project. The speeches at the congress of Mr Canete, Mr Buzek and our Minister Tchórzewski show that we are going in such a direction that it will be guaranteed that 50% We will receive funding for projects from the European Commission, and as for 50%, it will be a suggestion that the countries that are part of this Mining Regions Support Platform involve their budgetary resources. I would like to stress that this is the first programme that gives the opportunity to reactivate post-industrial sites [[♪ The bell ♪]] in different regions in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u53	Thank you very much. I'm asking you for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The next question is: What are the plans of the Polish party for the initiative of the Mining Regions Support Platform at the COP24 climate summit in Katowice in December?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u55	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I signaled, the bilateral meeting, and actually it wasn't bilateral... The meeting attended by Minister Kwieciński, a representative of the European Commission, Commissioner sefčovič, Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship and my representative of the Ministry of Energy at the European Congress concerned a summary of the state at the date when the meeting took place. The conclusion was that we submitted 36 projects, including projects of the Marshal's office. Minister Kwieciński emphasized very strongly that these projects are included in the programme for the Śląskie voivodship, which is part of the programme of responsible development of Prime Minister Morawiecki, and then we discussed the next stage of the proceedings. The Commission has proposed that, by 15 June, and we have already done so, we review these 36 projects, some projects combine so that regulations are more complementary, more expressive. It also meant that, on the basis of the card sent to us by the European Commission, it would be possible, on the basis of a set framework for describing projects later, to assess them at the next meetings. The next finding was that, on the basis of this, the European Commission would also be at home by the end of July, in its structures, preparing a proposal for financing these projects so that we could reach COP24 so that the European Commission could announce which countries which regions are involved in the implementation of the projects, what funding is and what projects will be implemented. We have reported, among other things, investments related to the pumping and peak power plant, the project in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, but also the reactivation of many post-industrial areas, where we are building an appropriate base, now in the Company for the Restructuring of Mines, because our intention - and to that we have convinced the European Commission - is to give new impetus to the development of post-industrial regions, after this transformation process, because we notice in Poland, especially in the Silesian voivodeship, although not only, because in the Wałbrzych region, that the post-exploiting areas have their specific characteristics. They are well connected, they have their advantages, but because of the operation of the mining industry there and not only, because it is also about post-hutland areas, after other activities, for example coking plants, there are also some risks: settling the land, sometimes it needs to be recultivated, some facilities to create a good area for investment, actually describe and figure out what investments could be made in these areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So now we are going to the stage of detailing and announcing on COP, what we are going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Tadeusz Azievicz and Adam Korol, the Civic Platform, ask a question on the protection of the populations of grey seal and porpoise in the Baltic Sea in the context of the acts of beasty performed on the representatives of these species in May and June 2018. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Dead seals and porpoises have been found at the Polish sea for several weeks. Their numbers are approaching 40 and rising. The examination of the corpse indicates that, in a significant part of the cases, man's bestiality may be the cause. The cut tail fin, the slits in the abdominal area made with a sharp instrument, the loops on the neck of animals are concrete signs of degenerate activity. These events shock the public, which largely connects them with the unfortunate campaign of the PiS Member in a quite specific way calling for the reduction of the seal population in Poland. At the same time, there is a great mobilization of people of good faith. NGOs have even set a high reward for providing information enabling the perpetrators of these shameful acts to be identified and convicted. In this situation, the silence and lack of activity of the minister, who is ultimately responsible for the protection of the environment, including the protected species, are surprising. Minister! So far, we haven't heard your voice defending these beautiful animals. Nor do I see any real action to prevent further acts of beastyness. I would remind you that you have a powerful resort with enormous possibilities, you have tools to influence the state of collective consciousness, convincing people that seals are not pests, that the Polish state wants and will defend the further existence of this species. Unfortunately, during your meeting in Mława, you stated that we are living in times of excessive sensitivity to the protection of animals. This seriously undermines your credibility as a defender of protected species, which is why we are anxious to ask: What are you going to do to stop the killing of seals and porpoises on the Polish Coast? Are you considering adopting a grey seal protection programme submitted to the Ministry of Environment in 2012, which contains very specific recommendations? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u59	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I was extremely concerned to note that nearly 40 seals found on our coast at 7 found traces of human interference. We talked about this and wrote on the website of the Ministry of Environment. There was a clear voice in this matter. Seals are subject to strict species protection. The Minister's regulation explicitly sets out the prohibitions applicable to wild animals, those covered by both strict and partial protection. That's what's in it, among other things. prohibition of deliberate killing, mutilation, capture of animals. Penalty or fine shall be provided for the violation of those prohibitions. In addition, there is an animal protection law in force in Poland, which provides for imprisonment until 3 years for killing animals without complying with the conditions laid down in the Act. The relevant authorities are foreseen to carry out these investigations, i.e. The police, with which the Ministry of the Environment is in constant contact with the killing of seals, which you spoke about. By decision of the District Attorney in Gdansk to conduct seal proceedings, the District Prosecutor's Office in Gdynia was appointed. On the other hand, when it comes to accusing the ministry of inaction, I think it is worth recalling and speaking loudly about some of the actions that are being taken. The Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate-General for the Environment and the Regional Environment Directorates, in addition to posting on their websites relevant articles on protection, on how important this species is and on how to behave in the event of a seal meeting on the beach, also publish information stigmatizing scandalous cases of seal killing and inform about the criminal consequences. In addition, the environment resort is constantly involved in the field of marine environment protection, in educational campaigns on the wider nature protection. GDOŚ has also adopted a programme for the protection of porpoise, which comprehensively deals with threats to this species and methods to address these risks. In this document it moves, among others. issues of accidental by-catch of porpoise in fishing nets, the use of deterrent devices for these animals, testing alternative fishing gear which are safe for porpoise. We know that as far as this species is concerned, today the population is estimated to be about 500 and is considered a critically endangered population. As far as seals are concerned, the Ministry is working on plans to protect Natura 2000 marine areas. The adoption of these plans should effectively secure the key habitats of the grey seal in areas where this species is protected. It is worth noting that, unlike the conservation programmes for species which are soft documents, the conservation plan for Natura 2000 areas under the Regulation of the Minister for the Environment will constitute an act having the effect of acts of law which are universally applicable. These are the actions that are worth talking about, but not only. I also encourage all the parties, the organisations that you have said are very active - and thank you very much for this help to non-governmental organisations, thanks to the great involvement of which many security issues of seals are being monitored today - to engage in the development of plans that I just mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Adam Korol for a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u62	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We were concerned to receive the last statements of Minister Kowalczyk at the meeting in Mława, which he said - I wanted to quote some of the things that the Minister said - that we are living in times of excessive sensitivity in the protection of animals. It's the first thing we have to worry about. At this meeting, the Minister also said that he would not stand the protection of species animals, because this could cause conflict with Europe. It's better to do. they are small steps, but effectively, i.e. by very willing consent to the firing of species-protected animals, e.g. A bison or a moose. My question is this: Is this kind of thinking also about seals? Because the seal, as we know, is also a protected animal. Mr. Minister knows this is not a solution to the problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the next one is about to appear in place of the shot-out. And one more quick question. Is the Ministry working on alternative fishing gear? Because that's also a solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u63	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask Minister Małgorzata Golińska to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u64	Mr. Speaker! The statement you are quoting can be a little justified, I think, by the emotions of the discussion and the use of a shortcut of thought. There is no recommendation from the environmental department that would indicate the use of fire permits. Moreover, the issues of consent for the execution of protected animals are strictly governed by the provisions of the Act. Derogations from prohibitions are always particularly carefully examined. This is the case in the case of permits for the shelling of the bison, and this was the case in the case of the last permit that was issued, the permit for the shelling of the wolf, when the general director of environmental protection reached our department, information about the attack of the wolf on children. These are the situations - on the one hand, the issue of possible risks and, on the other hand, the issue of the health status of individuals, as was the case for bison - in which decisions to derogate from the prohibition are issued. There's never been a seal decision. There is nor has there been such a derogation from the prohibition. I think that's enough. On the other hand, as regards the answer to the question whether the Ministry is involved in work on alternative means of fishing, yes, it is involved. We are in close contact with the Minister of Maritime Affairs, who also, like our minister, has definitely said that he is not for shooting seals. So it is also worth telling you that the work we undertake together is moving towards alternative actions and compensation that will or should be paid to fishermen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Jan Warzecha, Mr Ewa Kozanecka and Mr Wojciech Buczak, Mr Law and Justice, on the state of preparation for the government's programme. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Warzech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Undoubtedly, family policy is one of the most important and powerful points in the programme of the Law and Justice Government. We are all happy with the 500+ family programme, which significantly supports and strengthens families with dependent children, giving them a sense of security that they had never had before. A continuation of this good direction is announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the government's "Good Start" programme, which will allow parents to receive additional financial support to cover the expenses related to the beginning of the school year. The selection of applications for the programme started on 1 July. I would therefore ask you to provide detailed information on the preparation for the implementation of the "Good start' programme. We know that the programme is being implemented by municipalities, the same offices that accept applications for the 500+ family programme. Are the municipalities well prepared for this task? Isn't the Ministry worried about queues in offices? What is the issue of funding and how does the Ministry of the Family support local government in preparing for a good start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u67	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Bartosz Marczuk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Yes, it is true that the programme has started or the selection of proposals has started since Sunday. Like what we did in the 500+ programme, we tried to prepare the local authorities very well for the organizational and financial side of the programme. I would just like to point out that it was quite a short time, because information about the program appeared in April when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced it, while on July 1st... It is not difficult to count that we had 2.5 months to prepare for the government as well as to prepare the local authorities for this program. What we did, of course, was quite quickly adopted the legal basis, because already at the end of May an appropriate regulation was adopted that regulated the matter. We have also launched the information campaign quite efficiently when it comes to local governments. As with the 500+ programme, we have prepared a special manual for local governments, which dispels their doubts about how to interpret the provisions of this programme. We have launched a special website or bookmark on our website. We quickly published the draft proposal so that local governments could download the proposal and use it. What is extremely important, and what can actually be considered a success - there is nothing to wrap around - my ministry led by Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, is also the launch in just two months or in fact 1.5 months of banking channel to submit these applications, that is, what we have been used to since 2016 for building this e-state and for being able to submit requests on bank transaction sites, we also did it on the occasion of the program. At the moment, 13 banks are already accepting applications for benefit under the "Good start' scheme. We also launched a hotline very quickly in the Ministry of the Family, which aims to resolve the doubts of the municipalities. She's dedicated to local governments. We have also launched 16 hotlines in the voivodship offices, which also answer citizens' questions about these issues. As far as the direct financial support of local authorities was concerned, the money that the municipalities could - even before the start of the programme, is extremely important - receive for preparation for a good start. We also thought that the municipalities should not overburden themselves with work. A complete novelty in the program is that if the municipality agrees with the applicant on how to settle the application, it does not send an administrative decision, i.e. there is no paper service, it only informs by e-mail about the payment, which, of course, reduces the burden on the municipalities. The banking channel is also very important. I said about consumers or beneficiaries that they got used to it, but it is also important for municipalities because they receive directly into their field systems - that's the name of this bookmark in their IT systems - an electronically completed application and simply do not have to enter this application, firstly, manually and secondly, they do not have to issue positions in local governments to accept paper applications. What is also important, July is the month in which we accept applications for benefits under the "Good start' programme, as in the case of the "500+' programme, only by electronic means, and since 1 August the selection of paper applications starts. One more thing: the management of both the Ministry of Family and the Ministry of National Education left for all voivodships and consulted this program in June, even before it started. Now it's the most important, which is the effect, because it's really the most important thing. You can talk about what we've done, but what really matters at the end of the day is how it all sounded or didn't play. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on July 1st, which is Sunday - today is Thursday morning - has started the selection of applications for the program and you can say, as my boss said, that a good start has a really good start. Right now, this is breaking news, we have 370,000. on-line applications in the "Good start" programme, i.e. in just four days it is close to 400 thousand. conclusions, i.e. that it was still Sunday, plus a match, 100,000. applications per day. No problems reported by the municipalities, no problems in our IT systems. Poles can easily, no problem, in literally a few dozen seconds, maybe exaggerate, but a few minutes, apply for this benefit and actually do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u69	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you so much for answering the first part of the question. By the way, a really great appreciation for how the programme was prepared, both the previous, the 500+ family as well as the present, a good start, and especially for this support, joint and several aid from the government, the Ministry for Local Government. I have a question about such opposite actions by local government units, especially municipalities. Is there really a will to cooperate? And if there are any cuts or delays on this side, I'd ask for information. Surely the experience of the 500+ family programme, as well as the media reports, have given such experience that some local authorities have delayed the introduction of the programme. What is the good start for the program? I heard the IT system is well prepared, from the technical side everything is well prepared, but is it [[♪ The bell ♪]] The will to cooperate also on the part of local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u71	Thank you very much. And once again, I ask Minister Bartosz Marczuk to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As far as local governments are concerned, we are talking here, as is the case with the 500+ programme, that we respect their work very much, thank you very much for the fact that these local governments, in principle, want to cooperate with us. They also know and feel that these benefits they pay are needed locally, especially in these smaller or smallest towns. Our experience with the 500+ programme, as I mentioned, has been transferred in terms of cooperation with local authorities, just to the "Good start" programme, which is a manual, information, infoline, information action, consultation in the regions. According to these data that we have at the moment, that is, after these 4 and 5 days, we do not see any problems with local governments. We, moreover, have introduced such a completely modern, innovative solution in terms of the "Good Start" programme. As a matter of fact, while respecting the work of those people who are down there and who are directly involved in handling these requests, we have introduced such a principle that the money that we pay to local governments for service - and I will remind you that this is 3% the total amount of the programme - they are 80% dedicated to these workers. We care about those employees who work strictly. the service of this program, they received in the form of remuneration this money. So it's such a novelty and we'll see how it works. But it also has such value that it is a certain incentive and some additional appreciation of those people who, down there, work in the municipalities, that they for these served conclusions... This is 10 zł for one served application, because this is a task commissioned by the government, i.e. 8 zł, i.e. 80% this money, whether it goes directly into the pockets of people who handle these applications. This is the solution we consulted on. The draft regulation itself, which introduces a good start... It should be noted here that the joint committee of the government and the local government issued a positive opinion on this project. So that respect for local governments, we pay local governments, as with the 500+ programme, for handling these applications, is a new solution related to the remuneration directly to people. At the moment, we're not seeing any trouble from local governments here. And a bow from our side towards them when it comes to launching this banking channel. They cared a lot about that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Anna Czech and Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice, on the action taken in the fight against boosters - the question to the Minister of Health. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I cordially thank the Ministry of Health that in response to the interpellation on amending the Anti-drug Act in the part concerning the definition of new psychoactive measures and some powers, among others. The State Sanitary Inspection has been declared and concrete action taken. A draft law on amending the law on anti-drugs was created, defined in the direction of harmonisation and the coverage of criminal acts related to the distribution of so-called. The boosters. The problem with boosters, as we know, is mostly the constantly modified chemical composition. Traders are placing new and more dangerous substances on the market. That's how they try to get past the list of controlled substances. Is it and how does the amendment of the law involve dealing with this problem? In addition, there are no official, normal or paranormal shops that offer boosters, and if the police identify such facilities, they close immediately. On the other hand, the sale of boosters went down to the so-called. Underground. There is a system of distribution via the Internet and using postal items of all kinds. Do, and how, the provisions in the amended act assume the fight against this phenomenon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u75	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew Józef the King for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, Madam President. It rains at a time when we are working on the anti-drug law, with the assumption of changes in the booster records. We are counting on it to be presented to the High House next week. The title of the introduction, because much was said about the problems we have, and the modification of this distribution. You could say, we've dealt with the stores, these sales points. Thus, according to the information we obtain from the State Sanitary Inspection, from several thousand shops this number fell this year to the revealed 31, from 1400 operating in 2010 to 31. But the problem hasn't expired, the problem is at the same level. We have about 11 cases of poisoning per 100,000. residents. This size persists, it is unsatisfactory, we think too high, so we are taking these actions, stimulating what has been so far. There is already a much greater awareness of psychoactive substances. The name of boosters is not a name that, so to speak, counters to approach the product, especially when it comes to young people, but not only. We want psychoactive substances, because they're psychoactive, to be treated just like drugs, and in fact, this bill is talking about it. First of all, we include the same treatment in the bill, and this also applies to distribution, because we are actually observing the transfer of sales from shops or from those places that we could identify, to the Internet or, as indicated here, to various types of anonymous points. But the main problem is drug dealers and drug dealers who, when they were dealing drugs, weren't treated like people, or were simply harder to treat them as people, so to speak, drug dealers. So, first of all, new psychoactive substances are to be subject to a similar control as in the case of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, leaving administrative responsibility for substitution measures, only a shift at the moment, substitution measures are mainly boosters, we move this to drugs and substitution measures will be much less. They must be disclosed, they must be indicated by the appropriate team, which has been operating for several years. The issue of supervision of substitution measures remains unchanged. On the other hand, the substances identified in them will be assessed by the Panel on Drugs and Drug Addiction. risk assessment for human health or life. This is the major change that a much wider directory of substances is being created. As a result, we will be able to identify these substances more quickly. They will be entered not as an annex to the law so far, the process takes a little longer than in the case of the regulation. We just want these substances identified as drugs. psychoactive was included there. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the proposed act, boosters are to be treated on an equal footing with drugs. Imports, exports, carriage, intra-Community acquisition or intra-Community supply of new psychoactive substances will be subject to fines, penalties for restrictions on liberty and imprisonment, here we propose up to 5 years, which is the same as for psychotropic substances. This is so important that law enforcement authorities have reported a particular problem in the drafting of this bill in identifying... not in identifying, but in punishing these people, especially with regard to transport. In addition, the EU directive indicates that we should change the whole intra-Community market in our anti-drug law, not only in the Polish area. Following the entry into force of the amended law, the criminal liability will also be imposed on drug dealers, who will be threatened by up to 12 years in prison for the distribution of boosters, something that at the moment... from the administrative penalty of the fine, because we do not think that it was affected properly in terms of security. It should be stressed that the main purpose of this law is to include criminal law primarily in all activities relating to the distribution of these substances and to create legal instruments that allow the responsibility of persons associated with it to be held accountable. In addition, we introduce elements that allow us to plan, so to speak, to act, namely to report cases of poisoning to the State Sanitary Inspection and keep a register of these substances, because at the moment often [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the basis of information from hospitals, we know that a poisoned young man is coming, and the substance that is poisoned is not identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Before giving the floor to you as part of the next question, I would like to warmly welcome the primary school students in Kosienice, the Przemysl district, together with the carers. We cordially welcome you to the Seym. [[Applause]] And now I vote for Mrs Annie Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u78	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Thank you for taking effective, hopefully, action and a comprehensive response in the first part. And now I would like to ask you about the objectives of the 2016-2020 National Health Programme. The second objective of this programme is to establish a programme to address problems related to the use of psychoactive substances, so-called. The boosters. Does the Ministry of Health plan to develop this programme in the coming years not only by allocating more and more resources, but also by inspiring more and more interesting programs, by announcing competitions for offers, various types of prevention programs, programs that deepen knowledge and make it to young people, parents and educators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u79	Thank you, Member. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr. Zbigniew Józef King for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I will also welcome the students, because in general this area we are talking about right now, which is during the holidays. Here the chief health inspector Minister Posobkiewicz taught lessons, I understand that also on this subject, and this is one of the elements that we definitely want to promote. We observe that the problem of boosters is at all unidentified in society. The meetings which are organised in schools by the State Labour Inspection or by the National Office for Drugs Prevention or by people involved with many non-governmental institutions do not come, and when they come, they usually claim that this is not their child's problem. This is usually not the problem of someone's child, because, as we say, there are 11 cases of poisoning at 100,000. children, adolescents and adults together. So this is not a large number compared to the numbers recorded in the case of other identified epidemics, it is not a broad phenomenon, but it is a problem of a single person who then goes to the emergency room or to the toxicology department, for which there is often no rescue. We are therefore taking all measures, apart from those relating to this law - also due to the activity of the Main Sanitary Inspection, the National Office for Drug Addiction - which are financed under the National Health Programme, because this area concerns addictions and is connected not only with boosters. I think it's worth mentioning such interesting programs as: a programme involving conferences organized by the State Sanitary Inspection concerning boosters and dangers associated with them, organized in every voivodship, in principle throughout Poland. There are also educational campaigns in TV programs, in the media - five videos under the program - Question for breakfast, report from the expert conference, educational program for the boosters. About a few thousand people participate in these programmes. The Chief Sanitary Inspector has led to the establishment and functioning of a consultative point for addicts, also administers the operation of a 24-hour line at the disposal of sanitary and epidemiological stations, so that at any time it is possible to contact not only from the perspective of sometimes dramatic situations in hospital emergency units, but also parents, also people who notice this problem in their surroundings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A message for parents is published on the GIS website. There are also many other activities. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Gabriela Masłowska, Czesław Sobierajski and Barbara Bubula, Law and Justice, on the situation of tenants of former factory housing and the effects of the legislative work carried out in this area by the Ministry of Investment and Development, which entered into force in May 2018 - to the Minister for Investment and Development. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, during the process, in short, the transformation, i.e. privatisation processes, which increased 20 years ago, at the beginning of the 1990s, there was a very difficult problem. Namely, during these processes of sale, liquidation, commercialisation and bankruptcy of many state-owned enterprises or companies of the Treasury of the State of the apartment which belonged to those enterprises which were occupied by tenants of the housing units who made their own contribution, as well as sometimes incurred a great amount of labour, were often disposed of in violation of the right of the original purchase or were offered to purchase them at a price much higher than the one for which some other person or private company was sold the next day, or for example. It was transferred to the municipality. Some of these tenants have been, you can say, cataracts, maybe comparable to those affected by the problem of Warsaw tenants, or larger ones. Some of these tenants still live in these apartments and are asked to make up for the damage. In the previous two terms, we have done a great deal of work, along with the tenants' environments, in solving this problem, which has been neglected and reluctantly treated by many governments and for many terms of office. The Ministry of Justice - the department of legislation in this ministry - has also made a huge contribution in the last term to remove these doubts, especially constitutional ones, because it is a difficult problem to solve, concerning property matters and has offered us a lot, it seems reasonable solutions that are acceptable to at least some tenants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I transferred all this work to the Ministry at the beginning of this term of office, thinking that this is already a serious basis for the continuation of the process of work on the bill. I would therefore like to ask briefly whether, at present, the Ministry of Investment, to which these issues are subject, is working on such a project. Can these mercenaries hope? At this stage, at the stage of the current Sejm and the current government, can they count on satisfaction? It's at least some of those tenants, 'cause we're probably not gonna satisfy them all. Could the Minister refer to the stage at which the work is being carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u83	Thank you very much, Member. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Artur Soboń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I would like to confirm this difficult situation for many tenants of the building, because the properties built with these apartments on 5 December 1990 were legally transferred to state-owned companies. The fact that these companies were expropriated has affected the legal situation of tenants on the transferred land. In the 1990s, the companies owned could freely dispose of the property transferred without the obligation to inform the tenants of the apartments, as until 7 February 2001 there were no regulations granting tenants the right of priority in the acquisition of the apartment. Some of these tenants already have a regulated situation, but much of them do not. And here we agree that such legislative action should be taken. What we have proposed so far is something that local governments will be able to benefit from in a moment. As of 1 May 2018, an amendment to the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Housing for Rent, Protected Housing, Accommodation, Hostels for Homeless, Heating Rooms and Temporary Rooms entered into force. These developments in the field of financial support for municipal construction have taken into account the demands of former housing support providers through the following solutions. Firstly, increasing the non-refundable financial support for municipalities from the Fund for Buy-in or Buy-in with the renovation of former apartments or residential building with former apartments from 30% to 50% of the cost of the project, as well as the absence of a ban on selling apartments from the municipality's housing stock where the subject of the purchase is an ex-works apartment or building with ex-works apartments. In short, the municipality can get 50% financing and, at the same time, grant a bonus that would be adequate and financingable for these tenants. The Financial Support Act defines that former works dwellings should be understood as housing which constituted before 7 February 2001 the property of state-owned enterprises and commercial companies in which the Treasury was the parent undertaking within the meaning of the Public Offering Act of 29 July 2005 and the conditions under which financial instruments were introduced into the organised trading system and public companies. Thus, the regulation does not apply to housing which is currently the property of state-owned enterprises. In addition, financial support will be provided provided that persons who before 7 February 2001 were employees of a State enterprise or a commercial company in which the State Treasury was a dominant entity within the meaning of that law, as well as the initial, apostate, spouse of the tenant, persons appointed and appointed, and persons who remained with the tenants in the actual common life, residing at the time of death with the tenant who entered into the lease relationship after the death of the persons referred to in point 1, which I listed as persons, as former employees of state-owned enterprises. At the same time, I would like to say that applications for the purchase of these housing units of the municipalities will be able to submit to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the next edition of the programme, i.e. from 1 July to 30 September. However, from 2019 these applications will be submitted on a continuous basis until the limit for the year in question is exhausted. It should be pointed out that this ceiling of the Fund is slightly over PLN 6 billion from the current year to 2025. On the other hand, as part of the edition, which starts already on 1 July, of course for all tasks of the Fund Payment in the case of this edition this limit amounts to PLN 105 million. That's all we want to do in this period between July and September. We want to assess the impact this will have on solving this problem that you are talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u85	Thank you very much. Is the Member still... Please, Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u86	Minister! What you're talking about, these solutions are some small step in solving all this painful, I would say, a terrible problem for many thousands of people, but they only concern a certain group of people. I'm sure there are cases where the current owner, whoever it is, wants to dispose of this apartment. They concern situations where the municipality wants to acquire this apartment, because the subsidies, as experience shows, for municipalities which previously amounted to 30% or 35%, did not run very much, did not create incentives for municipalities to be interested in buying this apartment. I don't think it's such an incentive for the municipalities to decide to buy these apartments. There are also situations of people who are waiting to empty the premises because they have judgments regarding the emptying of the premises, they have lost their right to the premises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and these are those to whom the right of the original purchase has been broken, who have lost the discounts, so what has been solved concerns only the narrow circle of tenants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u87	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u88	So what has been solved concerns only a narrow circle of tenants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u90	I think it is worth considering a broader approach to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u91	Thank you, Member. I ask Minister Arthur Sobonia to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Let's look at this solution, because it gives these two possibilities: on the one hand, we have higher funding, and on the other hand, we have the possibility of buying out these apartments with a bonus from the municipality. The municipalities have, I think, very good, best insight into what the situation looks like locally. There are presidents like that. President Katowice. I'm replacing him because he's already having intense conversations with us. There are a lot of these apartments in Katowice, so he is very interested in this solution. Of course, it has flaws, but in this matter - as the Member knows perfectly well, because few people know as much about this as the Member - the ideal solution is not. It is in Katowice that these apartments, which the president is looking for, are burdened, mortgages are charged, and this does not make it easier, of course, because there is always some attempt to agree between the municipality, this tenant and the company. This is not easy, because these entities, which today are owners of these apartments, are very often their next owners. There's no easy solution here. My proposal is that we see whether there will be interest from local governments and at the same time propose system solutions. Together with the Member, we are very kind about this and we already have some seed of this project, as you know. I think that he is a good basis for developing a system solution, although we both, as I understand it, encourage the municipalities to use this support instrument, the BGK Payment Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz and Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform, on the state of implementation of the database on products and packaging and on waste management (BDO) - to the Minister of Environment. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The question concerns the implementation of a database on products and packaging and waste management, in short called BDO. Dear Minister, The issue of environmental and pathology-free waste management, as declared by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Environment, has become a priority task of the government. Even a special meeting of the Sejm was called to amend the laws on waste and environmental inspection, which we will be voting on today. Given the obvious fact that transparent and fully controlled turnover, shipments of waste are a prerequisite for achieving this objective, I ask you to answer the question about the state of implementation of the most important tool in this process, namely the database on products and packaging and waste management. The Waste Act of 14 December 2012 provided for its creation by 23 January 2016, i.e. 36 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. In implementing the provisions of the Act, in 2015 the Minister of the Environment launched an open tender procedure. Design, development and implementation of the IT system Mon. Database on products and packaging and waste management. This invitation to tender was challenged by the ruling of the National Chamber. At the same time, together with the new Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment of 11 September 2015, the creation of the waste database was postponed in time - from January 2016 to January 2018. What mode and schedule of implementation of this system, called the BDO, has now been adopted by the Minister for the Environment, and what is the current state of development of this system? What contracts, what amounts and on what legal basis were concluded by the Ministry of the Environment or its subordinate institutions? Let me just remind you that the Minister at the committee meeting said that the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will be carried out by its own forces. This is not done by our own or external forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u95	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Sławomir Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to the Member's question, it is impossible to escape the need to clarify the last words that he has said, saying that the waste database is not being implemented. It's being implemented and in my speech I'll explain exactly what this condition looks like. I would like to say first of all that the Minister of the Environment - I will use the wording that Mrs Lenartowicz used at the committee meeting - was very much concerned when we came to the Minister of the Environment to ensure that the waste database was not a fake, not another very expensive Excel, but a tool that was not before and which my predecessor in one of the Senate committees said was not ready for this, neither business nor IT systems nor inspections. We have introduced a waste mass tracking module into this project to know where, when, what waste is being moved to control this system, and not to create another, very expensive IT solution that will be reduced to a simple register in Excel. This will actually be a very efficient tool using the latest technologies that are available on the IT market, including these latest innovative solutions. In order to achieve something like this, we adopted agility mode, so that we actually added more modules. On 24 January this year, according to the previously adopted timetable, the electronic register of BDO was launched by the Ministry of Environment, which is the first element of this database referred to in the Waste Act. All entities operating in the field of waste management shall be included in the register. The BDO register is, as I said, the first element of the product database and waste management. In addition to it, in accordance with the Waste Act, two further modules will also be set up from 2020 to keep records of waste and to report on products and waste in electronic form only. Fully deploying all BDO functionalities will enable effective control of the waste management market, as the President said, will contribute more effectively to the support of environmental inspection bodies in the fight against irregularities in this sector. In addition, BDOs will allow control authorities to analyse at the same time the compatibility of waste management activities actually carried out by operators with the scope declared in the register. It's also about cross-referenced data. It was also advocated by entrepreneurs, especially those who act legally in this market. In addition, due to the fact that the environmental inspection bodies will have access to the BDO, this will enable them to check the waste records, which will only be kept by entities using a dedicated module base. This should contribute to the elimination of illegal shipments of waste, together with the incorrect way in which they are recorded, which may occur in the case of traditional, paper-based records. Currently, the Ministry of Environment is working on creating another functionality, as I said, according to this agile method. These are in particular public procurement tasks. It is about developing documentation for the tender for the selection of the BDO contractor. So far, in the first stage of the preparation of the register, the IT competence of both the Ministry of the Environment we discussed and the external entity has been used. The contract concerning the register has already been awarded to a specialist company under the Public Procurement Law and in accordance with the procedures in force in the Ministry of Environment for the award of public contracts. On the other hand, a technical dialogue is currently underway prior to the preparation of the specifications of the essential terms and conditions of the contract and the description of the subject-matter of the procurement procedure for the implementation of the subsequent stages. It is planned to announce the initiation of proceedings under the Public Procurement Law Act in October this year. At the moment, we do not state a threat to the creation of a BDO within a time limit allowing, in accordance with the Waste Act, to be transmitted by entrepreneurs in 2020 through its 2019 report and to keep waste records from 2020 onwards. We also answer any questions in this area on an ongoing basis. I would also like to thank you for your interest in this subject, Mrs Kowalczyk, because it will be an efficient tool that will help the Environmental Protection Inspection in this very important process, on which, thanks to the personal involvement of the Prime Minister, Minister Kowalczyk, we have been able to speed up our work to combat pathologies in waste management. I'm sure the BDO will help here. However, I would also like to inform you that a special team is working under the direction of the Internal Security Agency and special recommendations have been prepared, which will also be announced after the completion of the work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u97	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u98	Minister, unfortunately, I am sorry to hear that, because there is no answer to the questions and we have such a general denial here. You told all of us that this would be done by the ministry's own forces. Now you're saying that it's externally assisted and you've replaced one company, even by a name, employed for one hundred and fifty thousand zlotys, supposedly. And the other modules, as you say, are, as it turns out, probably will not be implemented agile with the help of employees, because you are preparing some technical dialogue, however, for documentation for the tender. I have a question, and that question has already been asked. We ask for a list of contracts, information on who they were concluded with and for what. There's no base, there's the first module of the registry, and it's remade, where the old ones haven't been used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal bases. I want to ask you that. More than PLN 1 million, according to the list, was spent on nine, ten contracts...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u99	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u100	...nine, ten contracts at the Ministry of Environment. Please confirm what these agreements are, because the title of these agreements is about building...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u102	...that base.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u103	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Minister to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President, thank you very much for the information you have provided. I'm gonna check the contract issues carefully. We will certainly explain all your doubts in writing because, of course, it is a very important, crucial project for the Minister of the Environment when it comes to waste management. I won't agree with your opinion on the contradictions in my speech, but I don't want to go into this twisted logic and any erotic games. I would like to say that in terms of the funds that have been spent, this is PLN 153 504 gross. And these are the measures that result from the need to assist the Ministry of the Environment in preparing the first element that has been launched. Since we refer to science - logic is kind of a science, so you have to be strict - I would like to inform you that the database consists of individual modules and there will be no whole database without this first module, so to say that... There's one more thing I'd like to tell you. I am a member of the digital committee and I would like to tell you that this is an innovative method. Maybe you don't know her, which is why I'll explain. [[I do.]] I'm glad. Unfortunately, you do not fully understand me, because the agile method in no way precludes the use of tools in the form of public procurement. This government is a transparent government, all information is available. The procurement procedure is a tool which enables transparent action. And certainly such procedures as the government will stick to this government. It's all about information, full access to participation. At the same time, we are very keen to use the latest technologies to optimise costs and effectiveness. I'm sure we'll stick to that. It is very important for us not to repeat the mistakes that have been made in the past and which you spoke about. Let me remind you that there were legislative problems, there were no regulations. We are therefore trying to ensure that this base is prepared carefully, within the time limit set. I answer your question: the deadline for the implementation of the full functionality of the database is not at risk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u105	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the preparation of an urgent government bill amending the Act on IPN - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment and the manner in which the Kukiz Club introduced the presentation.15 I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romekowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u106	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, thank you very much for agreeing to present current information on the circumstances concerning the preparation and adoption of the Act of 27 June 2018 on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. Polish public opinion has been electrified, as have we parliamentarians, by the procedure of proceding, speed and consequences of the adoption of this law. Namely, it is a simple press release, which was submitted as, let's say, compensation for the fact that the Polish Parliament under the dictation of another country adopted the law. Therefore, I will go straight to the key basic questions about the whole spectrum of events accompanying the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. The first question concerns the information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 8 December 2016 on the comments of both the representative of the Israeli Government in the person of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as representatives of Jewish organizations who expressed absolute opposition to the proposed content of the government draft Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which was subsequently adopted on 26 January 2016. Next question: Did then, before the adoption in January this year. The National Remembrance Institute laws were held on this matter meeting with representatives of the Israeli embassy? What was the question of cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs knew very well from widely available writings about the consequences of the adoption of this law. The adoption of this law resulted in a hurricane of information attack on Poland by representatives of the State of Israel, as well as Jewish communities. Poland was absolutely not prepared for this. Why? After all, we knew of Israel's comments. Our institutions knew, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs certainly knew, the Ministry of Justice also in my opinion knew very well. Nevertheless, the law was passed and Poland was powerless against these media attacks. Another point is the opening of negotiations, which ended on 27 June, last week, on Wednesday. Who came up with the initiative? What were these negotiations like? Is it true that the Israeli conversation was conducted by Mossad officials? Who on the Polish side participated in these discussions as a representative of the Polish Prime Minister? Who knew about the negotiations with the Israeli side? What was the price? Was there any threat from third countries if we did not amend this law and therefore do not adopt an amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance? Another issue concerns the procedure of the law itself. Was the article broken? Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, which provides for urgent procedure, but cannot be applied to the laws governing the system and jurisdiction of the public authority. The Act on the Institute of National Remembrance is such a law. Another thing that precedes the discussion at all about the disposal of the article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 concerns whether there was a resolution of the Council of Ministers on granting the urgency procedure to the draft government law in question. The next question concerns a much more appalling matter, namely: Has there been practice so far for representatives of the Polish government to negotiate government bill projects with officers of special services of a foreign state? Is this normal practice? Does this prove the sovereignty of the Polish Sejm, the Senate, the President and above all the government that is entering such rhetoric? And the closing question. We are on the eve of the anniversary of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska. Does the government also envisage in a similar express mode and in a similar way amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance [[♪ The bell ♪]] Exploring the rules of flagship proofing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State, Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, in answer to the question of the Member, I would like to point out that we are in Parliament. Almost everything can be said here, but indeed, in our statements, Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...in these statements, Mr President - I am sorry, I wanted to let you finish, because I am referring to your speech, so I would like you to hear these words - but we need to be moderate. By suggesting that the Polish government and the Polish parliament are acting under the dictation of a foreign state, foreign interviews, you are insulting not only the current government, but also the entire parliament and yourself. It's just a bunch of crap, and I'm trying to get you to do it because you're a balanced, reasonable person, so that, in this criticism, it's often right, but keep it moderate and properly relevant to the situation. In this case, you crossed that line. You asked why we were not prepared for an international response to the January amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. That sounded a couple of times out of that bleacher. We did not really appreciate the negligence that has taken place for decades in the care of the Polish name, the good name of the Polish people outside the country. We knew that this topic was a set-up, we knew that the Polish government, it happened, it carried out counterproductive actions when it comes to building a good image of our country outside Poland - and here the example that I have already provided, promoting Poland by issuing films such as "Books" in Polish institutes or promoting Mr Gross's books by Polish institutes, are examples from years of government of the Civic Platform, in quotes, promotion of Poland outside borders, so agreement, there was no such policy, there was no care about the image of our country abroad - but we did not really appreciate how far these changes in social awareness took place. More and more environments began to confuse victims with criminals, more and more environments, and more people began to assign the Polish nation the cause, co-op of World War II, the Holocaust. And that is why such a hurricane attack, and that is why our response, which was, however, because I will remind and large promotional campaign - wrong wording - a large information campaign carried out abroad in February and March by the government, and the activities of our diplomacy carried out through embassies, consulates, Polish institutes. But indeed, this attack was massive and we underestimated the scale of negligence. In this respect, the Member must be right. But we cannot agree that we were unprepared or that the government did not take action to effectively inform the foreign public about the situation related to the amendment of the National Remembrance Institute Act. The second question was put in this way: Who participated in the negotiations on the amendment of the National Remembrance Institute Act? No one, sir, because there were no negotiations. The Act on the Institute of National Remembrance was amended by the Polish Parliament, and earlier this initiative was adopted by the Council of Ministers and there were no negotiations here. As I understand it, you are mistaken about the bill with the statement signed by the prime ministers, Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki and Prime Minister Netanyah. In fact, there have been discussions about a joint statement - a statement that you are depreciating, calling it a press release. And yet I urge you to take such an in-depth analysis, because, in our opinion, this document is extremely important. It is extremely important not only because of some current political effect, but also because of the future strategic and long-term policy of the Polish state and the pursuit of a good image and a good name of the Polish people in the international forum. For the first time in this kind of document, the State of Israel condemns anti-polyonism, for the first time in addition to anti-Semitism condemns anti-polyonism. For the first time, the Prime Minister of Israel acknowledges the great role of the Polish Underground State in fighting the German invader, in saving the Jews, in efforts to regain independence by Poland. For the first time, it is so clearly stated in such a document, who really was the perpetrator of World War II and the Holocaust, and the fascist Germany is clearly indicated here. This document from the point of view of future image actions, but also process actions, is, I think, very important and really not worth depreciating. And when it comes to drawing up the contents of this statement, I'm telling you, he's been having these conversations here... [[I didn't ask about the content.]] ...before all, Prime Minister Morawiecki. Several long telephone conversations with Prime Minister Netanyahu discussed the various elements of this document. But let me stress again, because it sounded in the first part of your question: a document, a statement, that is, this document I was just talking about, and the amendment of the law, these two things are not related, although of course they were published on the same day. We live in a free country, contrary to what some say, so you may believe, you may not believe. I answer according to my best knowledge of this situation. As regards the procedure, because you asked the Member about the procedure and questioned how this law was transposed - these are legal matters. You're a lawyer, I'm a historian, so you'll allow me to support myself with a note... [[Please.]] ...which I asked him to draw up a legal department to give you a precise answer to that question. The bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance was drawn up at the request of the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister by the Legal Department of the National Remembrance Institute on 25 and 26 June 2018. On the basis of § 98 Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers The President of the Council of Ministers decided on a separate procedure for dealing with this draft law, consisting in bringing this project directly into consideration by the Council of Ministers in a circular manner. Thus, there was no obligation to carry out public consultations or inter-ministerial arrangements for this project. On 26 June, the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers sent a letter to the Secretary of the Council of Ministers requesting that the bill in question be sent to the Council of Ministers immediately for consideration by the Council of Ministers in a circular manner, while requesting that the bill in question be declared urgent within the meaning of Article. Article 123 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland due to the need to take immediate action to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation more effectively. This draft was immediately submitted to the members of the Council of Ministers for consideration in a circular manner and for failure to submit comments within the time limit set, i.e. up to 3 p.m. 22 on the same day, pursuant to § 92. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers considered to have been adopted by the Council of Ministers as an urgent project. The bill was then sent by the President of the Council of Ministers to the hands of the Marshal of the Polish Sejm, stating that the Council of Ministers considered this draft law urgent because of the need to take immediate action to serve, etc. On the basis of the article. 123 of the Constitution The Council of Ministers may declare the bill adopted by it urgent, with the exception of draft tax laws, laws concerning the election of the President of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm, the Senate and local authorities, laws governing the system and jurisdiction of public authorities, as well as codes. In short, none of these catalogues contained this amendment, so it could be considered urgent. The draft law amending the law on IPN could be regarded by the Council of Ministers as urgent, as in particular it did not regulate the system or interfere in other areas. In conclusion, this bill was prepared by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. I hope that this is a fairly comprehensive response for the Member. [[One question.]] And one last thing. You know, I didn't expect that question from you about Volyn. It's a rhetorical question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to offend the government, so I'm not responding to it... [[You'd better ask, Minister, you'd better ask.]] ...but I can tell you that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will attend the central ceremony on July 11th. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u109	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask you to ask Mr Waldemar Buda's question from Law and Justice. Speaking time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He focused on techniques, that is, pointing to potential irregularities, which has not been confirmed, and we are sure that this is from the memo that the Minister quoted. On the other hand, in my view, it is important to focus on the most important thing in this matter, that is, the measure of action is the effects and effects, and I would like to ask the Minister about the very effects and effects of the law introduced in June, because for me, of course, these effects are positive and I have no doubts in this regard. If we could in some part, because you know, the subject is extensive, and analyze these effects on the international arena, then I would be very grateful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u111	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As regards this law, I would like to say that this is similar to the custom of some volunteer firefighters who set fire to houses or meadows and then take a heroic part in their extinction. [[Don't insult the firemen.]] I'm talking about the criminals, sir, who are doing this. The question is therefore clear. It was entrusted to negotiate such an important law in such a scandalous way that it was introduced in such a way that it could be called a backyard diplomacy, which in no way understood the importance of the matter being negotiated. The question is: Are there mechanisms that will at the moment avoid such embarrassment of Poland on the international stage? The bill was prepared without any diplomatic cover, without any preparation, little of it, it was intended to be directed only and only to stop using or punishing for calling death camps Polish death camps. It was extended, under the influence of the Kukiz club, a Ukrainian thread was introduced, which was not analysed at all at the moment and would also require correction. What general remark can we say is positive from what happened? Well, I think you've learned how to quickly, effectively negotiate to change the bad laws. Use this experience in your contacts with the European Commission. We encourage you to carry out the same instant procedure over a law that will close this conflict and allow [[♪ The bell ♪]] enter the Republic of Poland on the path of the rule of law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u113	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I thank the Minister for answering literally three questions, and especially the last question. I am very pleased that the government does not provide for changes to the flagship validation bill. I will refer to the words of the Minister and I will appeal to him in this second part of the speech to address these fundamental issues, to the information that is most shocking to the Polish public. If there has actually been cooperation with Israel's special forces, say so and tell them to what extent. Do not be ashamed of the word Mossad and make a clear reference to this. You are very cleverly attacking the Civic Platform - and rightly so - for the fact that at the time when the Platform was ruled, Mr Jan Tomasz Gross, a sociologist, attacked Poland and abused it in the international arena. However, you have now handed over 750,000. zł prof. Engelking-Boni, who also has merit, I would say very big in this respect, supporting, for example, Prof. Grabowski and his lie about the history of Poland. It is also a representative of a fine science called sociology. Minister! About my comment on the issues related to the article. 123, please read carefully the issue of laws governing the system and jurisdiction of the public authority. The Institute of National Remembrance is a public authority and the provisions of the article. 55a and 55b dealt with issues related to the rule of law, the functioning of the prosecutor's office. And the last thing about this short statement. You really think very badly about Poles. Poles aren't naive. This Wednesday correlation, where in the previously unknown mode [[♪ The bell ♪]] An extraordinaire, when the president is being pulled from abroad and signing a bill, and there's a Prime Minister of Israel waiting on the telelinks because there's no communication here... There's the connection, really. Poles aren't naive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has been said here, the Minister is insulting the intelligence of Poles with such statements that negotiations with Israel did not involve express pace, extraordinary scandalous pace at which this amendment was being conducted last week: without second reading, without debate, without referring to the committee, most importantly, without asking Poles for opinions, without asking Poles for opinions on this issue. Why didn't you ask the Poles? Because you were afraid of the reaction because you told so many dirdids in January this February about your integrity, that you were perfectly aware that now the king is naked, that you are naked. Minister, I ask you once again to answer the question: What, then, according to information that is widely available in Israel, as well as in Poland, was negotiated in Mossad centers in Israel, which was negotiated in Vienna, because such information is confirmed on this subject? I would also ask you to answer the question: How should we treat this agreement that you have signed with Israel and which you have not announced so loudly? This agreement - please read into its content - in which, first of all, there is no mention of Polish victims of World War II, genocide on Poles, and second, there are mentioned again to some anonymous Nazis, it is not simply written which country is responsible for crimes, Holocaust, Nazi crimes. The whole debate is actually a confirmation of the mythology that Israel creates, namely, firstly, that World War II is primarily the suffering of Jews, and secondly, that all other nations are accomplices, because Poles are also mainly accomplices there. It's not a success. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the confirmation of the Israeli narrative in the international area and simply the surrender of the Polish government, the shameful surrender. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of January this year gave tools to protect the good name of Poland and the Polish nation against unauthorized and lying accusations of our nation's shared responsibility for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third Reich or for other crimes that constitute crimes against peace and humanity. Although the record on the criminalisation of a crime consisting in public and contrary to the fact that it was attributed to the Polish nation or the Polish state of the above. the crime raised a discussion in this House, but we were convinced of the necessity and effectiveness of this type of recording. Today it seems that in many circles around the world this record has not been properly understood. Therefore, the government's initiative to improve the record, so that leaving the possibility to defend our good name effectively, eliminate some kind of source of misunderstanding that is damaging to us, seems to be most justified. The recognition of this amendment as an urgent project also seems to be justified, as we should all be concerned that this misunderstanding which has arisen should be eliminated and corrected as soon as possible. And the question is, will this amendment help to eliminate this image misunderstanding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u119	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u120	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First, something for the PiS electorate, to which the government directed its narrative. There's a very influential newspaper in Israel called The Times of Israel. And there, Mr. Jacob Nagel, former head of the National Security Council, about the amendment of the IPN Act, says directly: here is a country that prides itself on the fact that he has passed a law that he believes will restore honor to the nation, and six months later he will cancel it with his tail hung up. And the second quote from Mr. Jacob: we were dealing with a law that everyone said was horrible, and we got rid of it--we--not giving them anything in return. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's the truth.]] The Times of Israel claims that Mr Jacob Nagel was the representative of the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for the negotiation of the provisions of the IPN Act. It's one thing. The second issue is also very controversial. You're referring to different people here, different opinions, different books. I would also like to express my absolute opposition to the fact that from the money of Polish pensioners, from the money of Polish taxpayers who also pay a television subscription, Mr Ziemkiewicz, who at the time when this law was passed, used the words: For many years I convinced my fellow countrymen that we should support Israel. I feel like a jerk tonight with a couple of stupid, relatively greedy bastards. It's just one of many examples. What's the ratio, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for such statements by journalists of national television? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u121	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the law on IPN has withdrawn, among others. statement: Polish camps. Currently, it will also be possible to use it with impunity in the territory of the Republic of Poland. According to the President of the Council of Ministers, is it permissible to use this lying statement in the territory of the Republic of Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! With the violation of any rules of procedure in the Sejm, you adopted an urgent amendment to the IPN Act, knowing already, because you said it yourself earlier, that the recipe would be dead, that the recipe would not be used. You had doubts about its correctness, because in February, President Duda, having signed the IPN Act, sent it to the Constitutional Court. You said you weren't gonna update her, that you had to wait for the Constitutional Court's ruling. And all of a sudden, there's an international brawl. You didn't listen to those voices from abroad before, but they were. There was no cooperation between the various ministers, only by force you passed this law because it was the need for a moment. We all remember that on TV there was a film about neofascists celebrating Hitler's birthday. To cover everything up quickly, suddenly, like an awl out of a bag, the I.P.N. Act came up. And then it got revenge not on you, on all of us, because the effect of the bill is that, as no one else has said before, there were Poles in Poland who participated in the extermination of Jews, that there were money miners. The word "mongerer" has made an international career. The effect is that because of what you've done, we've all been left with great shame. It was only under the pressure of intervention from abroad, from Israel, from the United States that you changed the bill. How can you look people in the eye today on behalf of the government and on behalf of the PiS? Minister, it's time to say I'm sorry for all this, to draw conclusions, and now to amend the Supreme Court Act as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the President of the Council of Ministers called for an additional meeting of the Sejm, he argued that an urgent draft waste bill was to be carried out. On the date of convening the meeting it turned out that it was, however, a revision of the IPN Act. Why did the President of the Council of Ministers mislead the Polish Parliament? Why is the Prime Minister treating the Sejm instrumentally? The fact that Kukiz15 is being treated as such can be regrettablely understood by the opposition Members as someone not needed in this Parliament, but we hear in the media that Senator Żaryn, who is your Senator... [[Member.]] [[Senator.]] Senator Żaryn. ...talking about the fact that he had absolutely no idea, going to the Senate in the morning, that there would be a procession over such a bill. If the Żaryn historian doesn't know anything about it, then something's wrong. We are celebrating at this moment 550 years of parliamentarianism, something that we really pride ourselves with, which we can pride ourselves with, but such behaviour shows that in such an issue Polish parliamentarianism does not exist, it is absolutely not there. And why is that? Because they were allowed to accept the ordination as it is. Without ordination, which will be based on one-mandate electoral districts, that the Member will be responsible to his constituents, that he will not be an ordinary button man who raises his hand when they tell him to read from the card, we will have such flowers all the time. This is an unacceptable form of proceding over laws. I hope that someone really, if not now, will soon be responsible for such treatment of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think that the law on IPN adopted in January was a good step towards defending the dignity, honor and historical truth of Poland, because it has become an inspiration for the discussion that has recently been passed through the world, eliminating the often resulting misconception of the participation of the Polish people in the Holocaust, and imputing blame for the crimes of the Nazis and their collaborators. In turn, the June amendment of this law allowed us to draw up an extremely important, common, Polish-Israeli declaration, destroying any doubt that both us Poles and Jews are victims of Nazi atrocities. But I would like to ask the Minister: Will the repeal of the amendment of the criminal laws for assigning Poles joint responsibility for the crimes of the Third German Reich allow to defend the honor, dignity and historical truth of the Polish people effectively under this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u129	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After the amendment of the IPN Act in January, the government reacted after a few months and changed the provisions that they had introduced, so to speak, very bad relations with Israel and the United States, but did not address the Ukrainian part of this January amendment, which also greatly damaged our relations with our neighbour, Ukraine. It was explained in January that this change in the IPN Act is needed to investigate crimes and prosecute criminals who committed crimes in Volyn. However, before January's revision of the IPN, he carried out works on the Volyn crime very widely. There was a special website in Polish, Ukrainian and English languages dedicated to the Volyn crime - that was its name - prosecutors conducted investigations, dozens of investigations into the crime in Volyn, qualifying it as a crime of genocide, collected several hundred reports of witnesses of these crimes. So there was no need to amend this law, and so it was done, mentioning seven Ukrainians there, that this has led to irritation and corruption of relations with Ukraine. I ask myself: Why was this occasion, the June amendment, not used to restore relations with Ukraine? After all, there's a question of identifying the names of all the victims of the Volynian crime... [[There's been no exhumation for two years.]] ...it's a question of exhumation there, it's a question of providing a worthy burial for these victims, it's a question of commemorating these places. The fact that this law has not been corrected in terms of Ukraine makes it extremely difficult for us to carry out these very important work on commemorating those victims. The President questioned several provisions concerning Ukraine in this bill and sent them to the Constitutional Court, but even if the Tribunal considers it to be constitutionally compatible, it may harm Poland very much, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although the constitution agrees. Why was this not done with regard to Ukraine, but limited to Israel and the United States? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u131	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the words of the Minister, who asked me to say that in his speech, Mr Romekovsky insulted the High House. Nothing more wrong, Minister. Well, Mr Romekowski was referring to the government, not to the whole House, because you are responsible for this whole bullshit, it is history that will judge you, and it is you who are making the policy of getting up from your knees that you are converting into a policy of falling on the face of other countries. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to Many PiS politicians, as well as supporting their journalists, the January amendment of the IPN Act is a fight for sovereignty. Is it a loss of sovereignty, then, to withdraw from it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the Act of 26 January this year on amending the Act on IPN - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, etc. - I'm not gonna read the whole name, that's all I'm gonna say - it's been processed in the Seym for a long time. The applicant accuses the government and, of course, us as the governing party that there has been no vigilance and that the comments submitted by third parties have not been accepted. I have a question for the applicants because I did not participate in the process of this law, I work in other committees: Did they pay attention to the already known sensitivity of the matter related to the article during this work. 55a? Because in the plenary room, this article was completely omitted in the discussion, including by the applicants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u135	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Law... The Civic Platform. [[Something's going on, Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I very much respect your commitment to parliamentary work, and now also to government work, but I would like to express my opposition from this point of view, with great opposition. I think other opposition groups will support this as well. Listening to something like this is really for me... It should be a shame for you to say that you are simply a mess - I apologize for this colloquialism - in the conduct of such an important bill and in the process of prosecuting it you blame the opposition. It is not true that there was dialogue, there was no dialogue, no discussion, no consultation, and the amendments tabled by the opposition are not taken into account at all. Now we have a very special situation again and this procedure... I would like you to finally draw conclusions, because dozens of laws in this term of office, in this parliament, are still being corrected immediately: first we are adopting something urgently, immediately and then again as a matter of urgency, we are improving something again. I have a question: What was the result of an immediate action to mitigate the IPN Act by withdrawing from criminal records? We have tabled amendments as an opposition, that this will have no effect and application outside the country. No, you insisted and in the Higher House the senators also supported this bill, also in terms of very bad records, and as a result Poland suffers from it, because we have an international scandal and bad diplomatic relations with Israel, the United States and Ukraine. This unfortunately hits the image of our country, precisely because of such actions and such a legislative procedure as the state [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're authors now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The situation is just... Two years ago, if someone had asked me, he told me that if he was talking about this here in the High House, I probably would never have believed it myself. Minister, we've known each other for a few years, and let me be honest, you know exactly what we're talking about. You're in an unusual role today, and I don't believe you even believe what you're saying. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha, yes, sir.]] We have God, honor, and homeland. Law and Justice, as well as Kukiz,15, often repeats this sentence. For God's sake, you have no influence. The country is ours, you have nothing but honor. I ask you where he is, since under the influence of an alien power you change the most important provisions of the IPN Act, which sounded in this way: who defames the Polish people against the facts... What's in that sentence that until the Western intervention had to take out the most important sentence of the entire bill? There's no answer on your part that's good. Shame on you. And this, Minister, is inexplicable to me, absolutely. The fact that there was still a Mossad in it, that there was some meeting under Vienna that we learned all about it from Israeli journalists, it's just some kind of... I will not use the adjectives that should be said here. On the other hand, in this case, Kukiz15 behaved as it should, unlike the Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The January amendment of the Act on IPN is a kind of important step in telling the truth, some kind of even enforcing telling the truth about the history of Poland. The opposition at every moment of its existence in the Sejm protests absolutely everything, every move of the government, also today, although it was then silent in this matter. It is obvious that for years we have condemned anti-Semitism in every form, is a declaration signed by the leader of Israel that they condemn anti-Polonism, which we have discovered, we have noticed, particularly intense, in recent months. For us this declaration is important mainly because Israel and its leader recognized that it was necessary to give the truth and honor to the Polish Underground State during World War II. It is in this declaration that it was a country that did not collaborate, opposed the Holocaust, fought with the Germans to the end, set up an organization to help the Jews in occupied Europe, warned the whole world against the Holocaust and asked for help. Minister, were there any earlier indications of a possible response to this amendment, such an unfair response? Did the State of Israel itself take part in this terrible chase against Poland? Does it not seem that Israel itself did not fully anticipate this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u141	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We regret to note the fact, information from the Israeli press about the fact that it was the services of Mossad, the foreign intelligence services that dictated to us, Poland, the Polish parliament, the Senate, the president of the amendment of the law on IPN. I wanted to ask, in fact, not the Minister, but Prime Minister Morawiecki, whether all the laws passed by the majority of Law and Justice are dictated by the services of foreign intelligence, or just this one. [[Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: All.]] We fully understand that there is diplomacy, we are in favour of great relations with Israel, with Tel Aviv, with Washington, with Brussels, with Moscow. There are tools in international diplomacy that can be used, but no country that wants to be treated in an individual way would allow the use of a tool such as dictating law by foreign intelligence services. The State has made Poland a subjective state under the rule of law, and it is perceived internationally. You have made Poland perceived as - and perhaps so - not a sovereign country, but as a condominium under a well-known trust board. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u143	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would not underestimate the importance of this joint declaration and try to draw attention to certain facts that had not really sounded before as they sounded in this declaration. Point 3 states that we have always agreed that the wording of the Polish concentration camps, the Polish death camps, are grossly wrong and reduce the responsibility of the Germans for the creation of these camps. If we looked at various documents, whether they were created in the west of Europe or in Israel, we would see that there in many of these documents, articles, books were mentioned about these mythical Nazis. Today, for the first time in this declaration, it sounds so strongly that Germany is responsible for the death camps. Here's the other thing. I will remind you of the procession of the resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of the 2018 Year of the Wielkopolska Uprising. You will remember who was the petitioner of this resolution. There the applicant wrote that Poles tried to free themselves from Prussian captivity. There was not enough objectivity to write about German captivity. I have a question. Minister, this is the beginning of the road and I would like to ask what the government and other actors are planning to do, e.g. The Polish National Foundation to break the truth about the attitude of the Polish nation, the Polish Underground State in the times of World War II [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how we will fight anti-polonism, because the declaration states that both governments reject anti-polonism and yet that anti-Semitism will be combated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u145	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is being listened to by the Canto Junior Choir from the Music School Group. Czesław Niemena in Włocławek invited by Mrs Borowiak. Welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u146	Thank you, Marshal. I have two basic questions. The first is a question about the January bill, because we all know that there was a memo from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about some controversy that this bill raises. And here's the question: was this memo known to other departments, including the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's firm, or is it stuck in the Ministry of Justice, because there is also such information that this memo did not reach all members of the government? The second question is what's been going on in the past. In addition to the articles purchased, did there appear any other mention in the foreign media about the joint conference and above all this supposedly pro-Polish statement of Netanyahu and was it noticed at all, because there is doubt about this? And is it really such a huge success, or is this success only in the minds of the creators of all this confusion? And the third question, at the very end, concerns the issue of procedures. I think it's such a violation of all the rules relating to normal procedure that it's been disturbed here. And the question is whether and why on issues such as: they concern drought, wealth of Poles or tax cuts, or anything that translates into the lives of citizens, you do not follow a fast path, and in matters that concern things that can be done calmly a month later, you use such an accelerated pace. And what were the reasons for using this fast pace in January? And what were the reasons for using this megaspeed now, lately? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u148	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a result of the resignation from the criminalisation of the lie against the Polish state and nation in the IPN Act, which imposed an obligation on the prosecution to prove that the crime occurred, was or will be developed a government document which will clearly identify the cases of statements and behaviour that will be brought before civil courts by state institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u149	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that, indeed, this provision and the law that introduces this, to some extent, does not raise any objections, but the mode. The mode is also about my question. Minister, in November 2017 in this Chamber, as part of the current Kukiz information15 reported on illegal dumps. There were, like, 150 Members in the courtroom. Everyone was talking about this problem as a local problem. During that time, in my town, there was time to light a dump, and a lot of people had been poisoned. It's been six months and it's only the Prime Minister who hit the table with his fist and said that's enough. During that time, a lot of these dumps burned down. And there was no need for an urgent procedure. I don't know. It's a case involving people with disabilities. Forty days these people sat here. At that time, there was no need to convene a Parliament meeting, no need even to convene a committee meeting, no need for an urgent procedure, although the matter was urgent. Answer the question: Then will Polish citizens who either feel threatened or have matters to deal with immediately have to go to politicians from Israel and the United States each time? Is this going to be the practice in this parliament? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Krupka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week, the Sejm adopted an amendment to the IPN Act adopted in January. What was the purpose of the original amendment of the law? Why was it decided to amend it? What is the purpose of this June amendment? Has this objective been achieved? In addition, were measures taken under the PO-PSL regime to prevent slandering the good name of Poland? If so, what is it? What actions have been taken under the rule of law and justice - what actions have already been taken - to defend the good name of Poland and the Polish people? What is the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki going to take? What further steps will the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki take as a result of this amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u153	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to go back to the beginning of the process on this bill. Well, on 30 August 2016, the project enters the Sejm. The first reading shall take place on 6 October 2016. The committee's report is on 8 November. On 13 December 2017, Mateusz Morawiecki became Prime Minister. On 21 January 2018, i.e. immediately after Christmas, in the evening a second reading of the project is introduced into order. On January 29th, the bill is passed to the President. I have these questions. First. Did the Prime Minister, when he became Prime Minister, know the Foreign Ministry's memo about the situation? Did the Marshal of the Sejm know the Foreign Ministry's memo? And was this coincidental date from December 13 to January 25th not the result of the fractal fight on the right? That's the first question. And the second question - to the Minister and to the whole House: Do you, as Parliamentarians of the 8th term of office of the Sejm, feel abhorrent in the way that this law is passed? Because I do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u156	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, as never before, cared and cared about defending Poland's good name in the historical evaluation of World War II. Those were the goals and the first law, and the new one. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is true that at a joint conference which took place after the adoption and amendment of this law at the end of June, there were clear declarations and statements that Poland was declared a victim of World War II, that it was not the perpetrator of the Holocaust. Did such a clear message go into the world? I would also like to ask if, at the same time or immediately after this conference, the U.S. Department of State issued a similar statement, a position in which it clearly states that the imposing terms, this is a quote, a Polish state responsible for the crimes of German Nazis in occupied Poland, such as the Polish death camps, are false and harmful. I would also like to ask whether a special Polish-Israeli dialogue team has already been established or will be set up in the near future. That's what I was talking about. It is about the historical dialogue on the subject we are talking about today. It was also mentioned at this joint conference. What are the results of the declaration on the establishment of this dialogue team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u157	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Negligence is years old, and I would say, decades old. The point is, first, it was German crimes, we had a commission to investigate German crimes. Later, new words appeared, I would say, specifically produced for this circumstance: Nazism, Nazi crimes. I am of this generation, who still remembers the people who survived the Hell of World War II and the Hell of the Holocaust. I have to say, I didn't meet someone who would say that these criminals spoke fascist or spoke Nazi, they spoke German. Minister, the government is probably monitoring the whole situation very closely, because care for historical policy is really at a high level and no other government has so far cared about this policy to this extent. I'm talking about picking it up in Israel, picking it up in public, in the media. I would like to hear from the Minister how the whole matter relating to this law is received and how a joint statement is subsequently received. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u159	Thank you, too. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not more than three months ago, the German Foreign Minister stated that Germany took full responsibility, all responsibility for causing World War II. That's a fact. Then I have a question: What do we want to achieve by translating from the fact that Poland was assaulted by Germany? What does that even have to do with anything? This is an obvious matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! My question is: Will the Polish-Israeli-American friendship be incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Poland so that the draft laws to strengthen it can be processed as a matter of urgency within a few hours so that Prime Minister Netanyahu is not late for lunch and President Trump is late for lunch? And one more thing: How many times did he use the term "Germany" in his last speech of the State Department? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[U.S. Department of State.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u163	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romankowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u164	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You will allow me to mention at the outset a passage from the memo already mentioned here by Minister Witold Waszczykowski, Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated 8 December 2016. Let me remind you that the law was passed over a year later, in January 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reading a passage. In view of the dissemination by some Jewish communities, as well as the institutions and organizations involved in commemorating the Holocaust, including the Yad Vashem Institute and the Holocaust Museum in Washington, extremely negative opinions on the project of the above mentioned. the act - it is about the law on IPN - whose supposed purpose is to: attempt to intimidate and prevent free research and discussion on the past of Poland, it is necessary to take active actions to present the position of the Republic of Poland, including in particular to clarify the reasons for the need to introduce a statutory criminalisation of the insulting of the Polish people. The importance of this type of activity is demonstrated, among others. the fact of personal reference to the subject matter of the amendment of the law on IPN by the Prime Minister of Israel, Mr Benjamin Netanyahu, in a conversation with Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the recent Polish-Israeli intergovernmental consultations. Jerusalem, November 21, 22nd. The speech is still on, ladies and gentlemen, by 2016. Therefore, I ask this question again: How is it possible - I also asked the Vice Minister of Justice who was responsible for this project and piloted this bill - that the Polish Government was completely surprised, and why was this date chosen, on the eve of the ceremony at the Auschwitz Museum, for the adoption of this law? We didn't have any shielding activity. There were no talks with the Israeli side. The Israeli side was surprised by this situation. And after 5 months we surrender, surrender, we are being led by Mossad officers, as evidenced today by the press releases of Mr Szczerba who is not here. This is an absolute scandal. The question to the government is: Do you plan to prepare a white paper, explain all the circumstances? Because it bears the marks of some kind of internal fractal struggle. What Mr Jachnik has rightly called: in December - 13 December - the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki is appointed and suddenly after 15 months of keeping the bill in the freezer, the bill is launched. Correspondence of events, lack of concrete actions related to explaining the Israeli side, as specifically called for by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whether this cooperation was. I repeat the question of who represented Poland in these negotiations, which we know were conducted, in Vienna and Israel? Is it true that these conversations were attended by officials of foreign special forces? I repeat this question once again, Minister. I'm gonna ask you a question because there was one question for me. This is specifically about the discussion of the article. 55a. Many times, as I recall, Mr Święcicki, during his work in November, 8 November 2016, raised the issue of Article. 55a. I'm here about the article. 55a and the doubts I knew about, I spoke to Deputy Minister Patrick Jaki and I was assured that any doubts had been resolved. Question to the government: Has this matter been clarified? Because I was assured that art. 55a no longer raises any doubts about Ambassador Azari. On the other hand, reality has brutally shown that it is completely different. As far as relations with Ukraine are concerned, the Member has also addressed this question to me in the context of this section on flagship penalisation. Believe me, I've been to Ukraine recently and I've been accepted with all my honors. Really, Ukraine respects countries that respect themselves. Let's respect each other and respect our neighbors, build good relationships in partnership. Once again, I call for answers to the fundamental questions about the circumstances of the conclusion of the agreement [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the legislative process carried out by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u165	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start at the end. Mr President, once again, there have been no negotiations on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. You can repeat that ten more times, I understand that the topic is catchy media, that you want to, because it was not only you who made such suggestions from this stand under the electorate, to formulate a message, but even if you repeat it twenty times, the facts are: the amendment of the IPN Act was not negotiated with anyone. Secondly, I am a little surprised, perhaps to a lesser extent, when it comes to Mr Szczerba, but to a greater extent as regards Mr Romekowski, that how you treat the revealed truth with the words of Israeli politicians who speak incomprehensible and surprisingly to me... [[For us, too.]] [[I think that's why the question's been asked.]] [[Hence the question.]] ...about the things we're talking about today. I can only repeat, I can only repeat: this is not true. Thirdly, don't explain yourself, Mr. President. Because you say you assured me that Ambassador Azari, when you were working on that bill, didn't object. [[It's not me, it's Minister Jak.]] Really, we don't have to take... Mr President, please don't interrupt me. We are driven primarily and exclusively, I hope, by the Polish reason of the state, and the fact that somebody does not always like the law which is established in Poland is not ours anymore... [[It's Minister Jak. Don't manipulate me.]] It's hard to say, it's just that. For us it is the overriding issue of the Polish state right. Another thing, I wanted to correct, because there were so many threads connected here, there were so many questions. I am unable to answer, I will not answer at all those questions which go beyond the content of the current information, and to the more important ones I have noted, I will try to answer, but there have been so many of them that I may not be able to answer all of them. One of your fellow Members claimed that the president was being pulled from abroad to sign a bill. That's bullshit. The president was not cheated from abroad and everything took place in accordance, as I have already stressed several times, with all the procedures and regulations in force in the Republic of Poland. Here's another thing. I am a little surprised by Mr Winnicki's statement. Although the Member is not here, I would like to thank him, because it was thanks to Mr Winnicki's attitude that this law was so successfully renegotiated in the Sejm. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha...]] I'm assuming it wasn't thoughtlessness, taking this place, it was thoughtful action. It was a quick completion of the procession, so today Mr Winnicki's speeches are really incomprehensible to me. Rather, we should thank the Member for his contribution to the smooth process of this law. [[Voice from the room: Did you get along?]] No, it's just that we didn't get along, and that's why I'm so surprised. [[Turns out you two got along.]] As for the fact that the Israeli narrative - I believe Mr Winnicki spoke about this too - is some triumphalism that Poland, on this declaration signed by Prime Minister Morawiecki and Netanyahu, would lose something, contradicts the facts, and these facts are not only in the form of the content of this declaration, but also in the form of publications that appear in Israel. I will give only two examples from the 27th of June of the Greatest Diary in Israel: one of the titles of Warsaw won the battle for narration, it was immediately after the change, after the amendment, and from the 4th of July, also from the diary "Haaretz" quote: "We accepted the official Polish narrative, another link. This does not appear to be texts in the spirit of triumphalism in connection with the revised IPN Act. I don't think it's worth referring to Mrs Radziszewska's and Mr Szczerba's statements, because it is you, the state, who have been leading the policy of such an education of shame over the years and, many times by your actions, the policy of slandering Poland abroad. I have already given examples in this House. I think Mr Masłowski asked whether the term "Polish death camps" could be used with impunity. I have this reflection: either you have not read this law or you have read it and you have not understood it. But I urge you, if it is impossible to read and understand, that you try to use such a term publicly in Poland, and then we will see...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u167	And I urge the Minister not to insult the Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u168	Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u169	Don't insult the MPs, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u170	I don't insult Members, I only urge you to experiment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u171	You're trying to insult me. [[But you're a touchy marshal today. Too bad he's not always like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u172	As for the fact that this declaration is of little value, such statements appeared here, and actually does not say anything about the perpetrators of World War II and the perpetrators of the Holocaust, I, if Mr. Marshal and the High Chamber allow, will quote a few quotes from this declaration signed by both prime ministers: 'Of course, the Holocaust was an unprecedented crime committed by Nazi Germany against the Jewish nation and all Poles of Jewish origin. The first quote, which seems to leave little doubt. Another quote Speaking of historical narratives and supposedly that the declaration is irrelevant and does not have any meaning. Both prime ministers say: "We have always agreed that the terms 'Polish concentration camps' or 'Polish death camps' are grossly wrong and reduce the responsibility of the Germans for creating these camps. We do not agree with the actions of assigning Poland or the entire Polish nation to blame for the atrocities committed by German Nazis and their collaborators from different countries and nationalities. Thank you very much. I think this is the best summary of what this declaration is that you're trying to depreciate. And one last thing... Oh, and Mr Apel asked if the information was being reproduced in other countries by the media. Yeah, she was. The media wrote about this declaration - not only in Israel but also in the United States. Two quotations just from the Haaretz, I presented, but there are also others from the press, including the American, not only Israeli. Last case, also an answer to a suggestion, a question from one of the members of the Kukiz Club. We absolutely do not depart from the fight for the good name of Poland, but just as the Prime Minister has said, I repeat, politics is about effectiveness and a certain political maturity is about effectively choosing tools to achieve goals. Thanks to this amendment, we are convinced that we will be able to fight more effectively for the good name of Poland outside the country. As far as the criminal rules are concerned, at the very end, I would like to address Mr Jakubiak, and I would like to remind you, Mr President, of the article. 133 of the Penal Code: who insults the Polish people or the Republic of Poland is punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But who has the right to sue?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u173	Thank you, Minister. And as corrected by Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I'd like to correct. I've never spoken to Ambassador Azari. I heard you spoke to Minister Jak. I'm supposed to say 'cause I still don't know if these conversations actually were or weren't there. I find it absolutely forbidden to write Polish law under the influence of foreign embassies. I would like to ask for a written reply to those questions that I have asked and which I have not received. Speaking of the press, you called the Israeli press here. Mr Barak Ravid just informed that the Polish side was supposedly represented by Professor Ryszard Legutko and Mr Tomasz Poręba. That's the question I'm leaving at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u175	Thank you very much. I support here the call made by the Minister to present in writing the answers to those questions which the Minister has not answered. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 40 hours 12 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments (prints 2667 and 2713). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation on the Government's draft law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments, print Nos 2667 and 2713. The aim of the bill is to support the implementation of the National Housing Programme, which is one of the priority tools for the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. One of the components of the National Housing Programme is the Housing+ programme, which assumes construction support for rent with the possibility of access to property, municipal and protected construction. The bill is part of a package of measures to support housing that is also available to low and average earners. The main problem of Polish housing is the statistical shortage of housing. The estimated statistical housing deficit at the end of 2015 was around 897 thousand in Poland. It must also not be forgotten that the problem of housing policy in Poland is also the lack of available housing for people whose income is too high to apply for municipal housing, and at the same time too low to borrow their own apartments. It is estimated that today in Poland there is about 40% in a similar situation. society, including mainly young people starting a career. At the same time, as research shows, the average price of square meter apartments in the largest cities has increased by 8,5% in the last year. In some towns, growth is two-digit. For example, the average rate per square metre of apartment in Warsaw has increased by almost 10% over the last year. and amounts to PLN 7821. Two-digit increases were recorded in Białystok, Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Katowice and Szczecin. According to the NBP report in the first quarter of this year, transaction prices increased in the original market in Gdańsk by more than 6% and in Katowice by more than 7% in the secondary market. The project is a tool to reduce the housing deficit and bring about a situation where the basic parameters determining the level of housing needs will not deviate from the average values of the developed countries of the European Union. The draft law provides for the adoption of deregulation measures to simplify and streamline administrative procedures related to the implementation of housing investments and associated investments. The deregulations proposed in the draft mainly concern the rules for the location of investments. The location of the investment will be determined by the council of the municipality, by a resolution adopted at the request of the investor. The investor's request to determine the location of the investment will be made public, with the possibility for the public concerned to comment. The assessment of the planned investment will be carried out by the same authorities and entities which carry out this assessment in the ordinary procedure for the adoption of the local plan, but the arrangements have been replaced by an opinion - except for the voivodship monument conservator, road manager and geological administration. An important solution is to link the planned investment with the findings of the study of the conditions and directions of the municipality's spatial development. Housing investments or associated investments shall not be located in areas subject to protection from localisation or construction on the basis of separate regulations, including shelters for nature conservation, family gardens and flood risk areas, unless the investor obtains authorisation under the provisions providing for such protection for the location of the housing investment or associated investment. The bill also provides for the acquisition of new residential areas, which have so far been not available for housing investments, despite attractive location, technical and social infrastructure equipment. This is the land used in the past as railway, military, production or postal services, and these functions are currently not carried out in these areas. The preparation of the housing investment will be preceded by the development of a urban-architectonic concept containing functional and spatial solutions for residential investment, taking into account the nature of the construction of the locality and the surrounding area. The concept will be developed by people with expertise and experience in spatial planning, including urban planners and architects who are currently preparing projects of local plans and construction conditions. The housing investment will have to comply with high urban standards, which are framed by the law. Investment standards secure access to the public road for residential investment, support for the necessary technical infrastructure, access to public education institutions such as school or kindergarten, access to public public transport, access to well-equipped areas of leisure and recreation and sport. The municipal government will have the right to increase or reduce the standards required of the investor by 50% of the indicators laid down in the Act, specifying, by way of a resolution, local urban standards. The municipality will also be able to further determine the number of parking spaces necessary for the operation of residential and accompanying investments and the obligation to provide access to district heating networks. Buildings built will require a decision to allow use. The competent district building surveillance inspector by an apartment investment or an accompanying investment will check compliance with the urban standards. The Act will also provide access to buildings for people with disabilities. In addition, a certain number of housing units are required to be adapted for the purposes of those persons. It is also important to extend the institutional lease formula to a lease agreement with a target transfer of ownership. To this end, it is proposed to amend the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code. The proposed solutions reduce administrative burdens as much as possible, thus reducing significant investment risks. The expected effect will therefore be to carry out these investments efficiently and efficiently. Under the Act, housing investments can be implemented much faster, as the process of obtaining consent for the location of the investment will last up to 60 days, with the possibility of extending by an additional 30 days. The proposed law will be open to all entities implementing housing investments in so far as they comply with the urban standards laid down by the law. At the same time, the draft law does not exclude the possibility of preparing or implementing all or part of the investment on a general basis as laid down in the separate provisions in force. The bill will apply for 10 years. The project entered the Sejm on 26 June 2018 and on 3 July 2018 was addressed to the first reading in the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation with a recommendation for an opinion by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The first reading of the project took place at the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on 4 July 2018. The meeting was also attended by representatives of the Association of Polish Cities, the Chamber of Architects of the Republic of Poland, Members of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. During the meeting, all the proposals envisaged in the draft were discussed. There was a substantive discussion on the solutions contained in the project. In detail, provisions were discussed to enable the implementation of the investment regardless of the existence or arrangements of the local spatial planning plans, provided that the investment purpose is consistent with the study of the conditions and directions of the municipality's spatial development. There have also been discussions on issues relating to protection against the construction of protected areas on the basis of current legislation - in particular the area of family gardens - and so-called. the release of new land for investment. We're talking about cohabitation, generational, post-industrial areas. It also discussed the range of accompanying investments that would be possible to implement under the law and the related issue of the planning pension. There was a substantive discussion about public participation in the investment location process. There was also a discussion about a time limit which was too short in the assessment of local authorities, in which the municipality would be required to issue a resolution on the location of the investment. A representative of the Polish Towns Association asked to consider extending the period of public consultation related to the investor's request from 21 to 30 days. There are also issues concerning urban standards, both statutory and local, which will determine the municipality, and details of the urban and architectural concept. The architects' environment took part in this discussion. The Polish Towns Association called for the abolition of the so-called. Fork 50%. Several legislative and editorial amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm were adopted during the process of the project. During the meeting, a formal request was submitted for a public hearing of the draft law. The proposal was not supported by the committee. A joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy was also held on 4 July 2018. During the meeting, the joint committees gave a positive opinion on the draft law. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation, I request that the draft law submitted by the committees be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u177	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present to the High House an opinion on the Government's draft law on facilitating the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. The main objective of this project is to reduce the housing deficit and to bring about a situation where the basic parameters determining the level of housing needs will not deviate from the average values in the developed countries of the European Union. For years the Polish state, or actually Polish society, has been struggling with a huge housing deficit. According to estimates at the end of 2015, the statistical housing deficit was 867 thousand, which is how many households need their housing for a decent existence. Apart from the country's quantitative housing deficits, there are significant quality housing deficits. Households occupy low-tech housing, not adequately equipped with overcrowded installations or dwellings. There are also shortcomings in the quality of construction teams themselves: lack of adequate communication services, including access to public transport, lack of access to the necessary services, including social services, including recreational areas. It should be recalled that housing policy in financial instruments has been based in the last 10 years on programmes that support exclusively the acquisition of housing for the property - a housing scheme for young people - while at the same time fully withdrawing the state from direct social support for rent building. It is the liquidation of the National Housing Fund in 2009. [[That's not the subject.]] [[Besides, it's not true.]] Therefore, the measures mentioned in the project focus on the elimination of quantitative deficits in the residential segment available in price terms and on the development of construction for rent. This proposed law is a really fast step towards tackling these housing problems that I was just talking about. It is assumed that potentially the main inhabitants of the new housing stock will be people from different age groups and full families. The project therefore sets out the standard to be met by housing investments carried out in the proposed manner in order to ensure that this resource is adapted to the needs of users. These standards ensure that housing investment is accessible to the public, adequate to the needs of communication services and providing a place for technical infrastructure implementation, supporting the necessary technical infrastructure, meeting the living needs of residents by satisfying investment access to universal education institutions at a distance of not more than 3 000. m and in cities where the population exceeds 100,000. residents, not more than 1500 m, and access to the public public transport stop at a distance of not more than 1000 m and in cities where the population exceeds 100,000. residents - 500 m. The local government will have the right to increase or reduce the standards required of the investor, but only up to 50% of the assumed indicators, specifying, by resolution, local urban standards. In local urban standards, the municipality will also be able to determine the number of parking spaces needed to handle the implemented residential investment. I would like to add that this bill is expected because, as I have already said, the lack of housing is a lack of satisfying one of the basic needs. Designed solutions to meet housing needs will help to increase the mobility of people, including families with children and people with disabilities, in order to search for, for example, adequate employment to meet housing needs by increasing the availability of housing. [[But it's not about that.]] Member, please don't disturb me. Don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u179	Please do not interfere with the speech. [[Sorry, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u180	It's just rude of you. Therefore, my dear High Sejm, I would like to stress that the law is absolutely fulfilling this main objective in terms of speeding up implementation and increasing the availability of housing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would nevertheless like to make one amendment to the hands of the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u181	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u182	Amendment to the draft to the article. 60 concerns the shortening of the period of vacathio legis of the amended provisions. There you go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u183	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I present an opinion on the Government's draft law on facilitating the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments, prints No. 2667 and 2713. Ladies and gentlemen! The housing special was introduced by the deregulation committee and was in an extraordinary hurry. An important law on housing policy and spatial planning and the tasks of the local authorities has been examined outside the substantive committees, and more will be said by the Vice-President of the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation by Małgorzata Janyska. As to the substantive issues, it should be noted that the bill allows the investment to be located at the investor's request, with the exception of provisions on spatial planning, with poor public consultation and, above all, the violation of local government spatial policy. The draft law introduces regulations that burden the municipalities with the activities of developers and will also cause the spread of urban tissue, instead of tightening it up, thus increasing the transport intensity of cities. The project ignores any analysis of the rational identification of land for housing. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not respect the existing plans. The Act creates the conditions to be reasonable and to lower standards in the development of space. The effects of the proposed deregulation will, in our opinion, lead to the destruction of the space, which is our valuable resource and which must be managed rationally. The draft law was negatively assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. By sharing the belief that we need to address the issue of housing availability in our country, we believe that the current speciality project will contribute more to the destruction of space than to help citizens in the area of housing policy, because the law does not in any way guarantee the construction of rent, social or commercial housing for medium-income people. The project gives investors the opportunity to build on special principles of expensive apartments by the sea, in mountains or even in state forests. That wasn't the idea of the project. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support this law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I apply to reject the draft law in its entirety. I also submit amendments to the bill. I thank you for your attention and give the floor to Małgorzata Janyska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u185	Thank you. I would also like to warmly welcome a group of pensioners from Doruczowa and Buknica who are listening to our debate. [[Applause]] Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u186	High Izbo! This project is a project that can be called very briefly: demolition+. Demolition plus for two reasons. Because this bill is trashed by the basic principles of spatial order and now it will be like in Barei movies to put a block here, even though there is a lake, because the lake will move, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Demolition also for another reason. They've been completely demolished, on the occasion of the legislative process so far, by passing this bill... The process was completely demolished. Firstly, the rapporteur was not concerned that the deregulation committee was not competent to consider this project - this should be done by the infrastructure and self-government committees - secondly, you did not say that the legislative process had been broken because the Marshal of the Sejm recommended that the committee consult the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. This opinion should be taken during the examination of this project after first reading in the committee. And meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, on July 3rd, we have learned that the next day we will examine this project in the deregulation committee. We voted on that day, July 3rd, until midnight. The next day we got a special, special, extraordinary, great, epoch-like story, and there was no time to get to know her at all to prepare for it. This was evident, however, because members of the deregulation committee, also the rapporteur and the Member who spoke on behalf of the club... You haven't spoken to me once, on any matter, at this epoch, very important bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it's only about an hour. 16 joint committees were held: infrastructure and local government, which gave an opinion that was no longer needed, because it was already at such a stage in the legislative process that the deregulation committee had no longer considered and will not consider it, ladies and gentlemen. The Marshal's recommendation was violated. You've destroyed your Marshal's recommendation. But he's probably not gonna do anything to you, because this bill is just supposed to be politically pushed, because you want to announce success, say, please - as in the series [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, or in another Barei movie, here's where we're going to do what we're going to do. And when, with what consequences - you don't even want to know. But it will be felt by Poles in a few, several, several decades. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government proposal for a law on facilitation in the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the bill about? According to the justification - so it is written, it is hard to believe - this law is a step towards reducing administrative and legal barriers to the construction of apartments, it will reduce the housing deficit. On the other hand, the aim of the proposed law is to introduce regulations allowing for a significant acceleration of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments. According to the explanatory memorandum, the project also envisages introducing specific rules for the location of housing investments and associated investments. High Izbo! In public space there was such a term for this project, attention: developer+. We find confirmation in many different opinions about this project, issued among others. during the consultation. In the document we read, here I quote: In general terms, the bill gives the impression of presenting the private investor's interest over the public interest and even subjugating the latter to the greater profits of the investor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a better word for this law. We have been wondering here, Mr. Messengers, about this, why this procedure is so non-transparent. The law suddenly goes to committee, joined committees: infrastructure and local government evaluate, give an opinion about a project that is no longer up-to-date, quickly, and no one knows who is responsible for what. I guess that means the Law and Justice are trying to hide something. Surely in such a situation you should be more vigilant. These answers, as I said, are already at the consultation stage. To quote: The bill presented by the Ministry of Investment and Development contains a number of provisions which will irreversibly affect the spatial governance of Polish cities. The introduction of the Act as it stands will result in a reduction in the role of spatial planning, a reduction in the role of residents in shaping urban space and subjecting planning processes to political will and thus increasing risk, attention, corruption behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how the Minister could bring here and present to the High House such a bill which clearly and clearly puts the interests of developers above the public interest. Minister, shame. [[Applause]] Of course, it is not that this law contains only bad records. There are positive entries which if they were part of the whole system changes, even in terms of technical parameters of investments, including access to educational, social and recreational services... These are, of course, good proposals. Minister, if this were part of the change of the system as a whole, not a breach that would destroy the order of Polish cities, it would be a good proposition. However, as a whole, this law runs counter to such a well-known one, I think, a postulate that we should all agree with, that is, the need to consider public space a public good, not the property of some indeterminate developer who can do with this space what he really likes. By the way, a few weeks ago, we adopted regulations that prevent developers from following the development plans. So? And now you're making a bill that makes a breach that will destroy public space. How can you even do that? Really, this is unacceptable. Of course, what I am saying is also confirmed by the opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government - although the previous version of the law, now after the changes in the committee is new, but nevertheless - which has issued a negative opinion. However, it must be made clear that these changes that you have made have not changed the spirit of this law, have not changed the substance of this law. This bill will destroy the public space in Poland and this is a law that will give developers a tool to build where they want, what they want. This can't be right. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club because of this real attempt to dismantle the spatial planning system, because this law favours developers or companies of the State Treasury and introduces such a mechanism of withdrawal from the standards... Ladies and gentlemen, standards are meant to be respected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so that the residents have the right quality of life. Deferring from these standards will cause damage to the inhabitants. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club requests that this harmful bill be rejected at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u189	Thank you. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the opinion of the designer, the law will allow the start-up of land which has not yet been taken into account in housing construction. It goes on for example. agricultural land within the administrative boundaries of cities, as well as areas which have been used as railway, military or production sites in the past. However, according to representatives of the local government, the project does not guarantee that new investments will be created in these areas. Moreover, the possibility of ignoring local zoning plans can aggravate spatial chaos, which is already a major problem of local government. The Council will be able to adopt resolutions to establish or refuse to establish a location, but will have to take into account the state of the housing needs of the municipality. This raises serious concerns about the incapacity of the municipality council, which will not be able to refuse to establish a location without adequate justification, in particular in the absence of meeting housing needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It so happens that in the recent period, we are once again leaning on a government project, which concerns a broadly understood housing economy, meeting housing needs and, as we read in the justification of this project, an approach to solving this problem and securing housing, because the needs are enormous, reaching more than 800,000. apartments. It's all in the right direction, but, Minister... I will no longer read or repeat the assumptions, because my previous speakers, the rapporteur, raised certain points in detail. So such a question and reflection also arise to me as a longtime self-government: must it be so that in this one project, in which there are legitimate goals, right assumptions and - I believe - a good look at facilitating the process of preparing the investment... We are talking about the sphere of residential buildings themselves, we care, at least we want to take care of the infrastructure records, the roads, the associated investments, and, in the second part or between the lines, we introduce provisions that, as if contradict it, cause you to have bad feelings, a taste and introduce a thought where you wonder whether it's really real, that after all these provisions have been implemented, this goal will be achieved. What's that supposed to do? First of all, Minister, I see that you are with us at the meetings, you are trying, you are explaining to us, just tell me why such confusion and misunderstandings are already in progress during the legislative process. Who needed this opinion from the Infrastructure Committee yesterday after the deregulation committee meeting? You may wonder, you may protest, but you may not say anything. But how does a man feel about himself? That he works in a mechanism that serves what? [[The devastation of space.]] That's it. That's it. That's it. Does the project, Minister, identify and indicate the places or space in which these objects will be built? There's so much doubt that it's possible that investors who have different plans, different goals, and when they build, according to our tradition... It's not like the object's gonna move. It's got to serve. Another issue is local government spatial policy. I have this feeling that these local governments will no longer be needed or will not have much to say because there is a record of the influence of the local community on the decision. Then why a zoning plan, why a concept? The group will gather and determine that a housing estate will be built or that several buildings will be built. Another topic: urban standards. Okay, but there's also no record or indication of what the minimum ones are. Since we say that the municipality can lower standards, to what level? After all, we want to create legal acts that will provide similar living conditions for everyone in our country, at least at this basic level. The next question is the time of entry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - I'm almost done - the laws in force. I won't say anything anymore, because it would be ironic to say that the next day after the signing, but seriously: let's at least write this period down. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u193	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a different act than the one that was presented a few months ago, completely different assumptions. Following the consultation, the Ministry decided to significantly modify its original project. According to the housing specialization in the current form, the housing investment could be implemented regardless of the existence or arrangements of the local spatial planning plan. However, it could not be contrary to the study of the conditions and directions of spatial development of the local government unit. Are you sure this is enough to prevent the already existing urban chaos in and around Polish cities? I don't know. Can't you see what it's like on a national scale? Isn't it gonna turn out that agricultural land surrounded by cities will be built with development blocks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u195	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Members of the PiS and the entire United Right, do you realize that you are involved in legal manipulation, which leads to the adoption of a law in violation of the Sejm's rules? [[Applause]] So in some years, if the rule of law is restored in Poland, you will be responsible by name for the negative effects of the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Poles will remember this. They're gonna find out who was behind this. Although we have asked you at committee meetings, and deregulation committee, and the Committee on Infrastructure combined with the Committee on Local Government, we have talked about the negative effects, we have asked the President, who is now sitting in the back there to postpone the sitting, finish at first reading and wait for the entire bill to be examined for the opinions of the two joint committees, because it is a duty, unfortunately, that you have not benefited from this, which means you are deliberately breaking the law. You're wilfully destroying this rule of law. Why? Then you can guess that there's something hidden in there. What's hidden in there, ladies and gentlemen? Is it really... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Mr. Chairman says it's time? A week, sir, would he save everyone so that this bill could be properly prepared? You come in here and say you're proud and you have the honor of presenting here some position that you read out of justification, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But unfortunately, you have no idea what's in this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u197	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Member, if you do not know the subject, it is sometimes better not to speak at all than to speak lies or foolishness, otherwise. There is no area deficit for housing construction in Poland. There isn't. The other way around. There is a lot of space for residential construction secured in local spatial planning. On the other hand, the bill you're introducing, the special act... As a rule, a special act is used to facilitate the achievement of public objectives. It's hard to call a public target... [[Madam, you did not understand what I said. That's the problem.]] You didn't understand this bill at all. Let's start with that. This will allow you to build everything and everywhere, i.e. developers will be able to just build anywhere... [[There's a housing deficit.]] ...and not necessarily apartments, because a wide catalogue of accompanying investments will make the developer think he's going to build commercial facilities, build some service facilities or other facilities from which he'll benefit, put up one single-family house and exhaust his residential investment. That's not how you do it. And yet there is the possibility of getting along with municipalities, investors, etc. The question arises, Minister: Who and who has made a deal so that there can be such a legal issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and allow the possibility of really many different scams? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u199	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u200	Minister! Please indicate to me the provisions that clearly define that this bill will be designed, will meet the requirements that you have set out in the explanatory memorandum, that is to say, it will implement housing investments in the form of rental, municipal and social buildings, and there will be no legal possibility, as already presented here, for the construction of all other apartments and apartments, and for the sale of them at high prices, so completely incompatible with the project. Please also tell me why the project does not provide for any economic analysis or a forecast of the financial consequences of the investment for the resolution on the location of the housing investment or accompanying investments. After all, this is absolutely necessary. Economic analyses and forecasts can prevent such investments that are missing, they can correct the drives of some investors or municipalities, or different individuals to build where such investments are not needed. So I'm asking you to rationally manage space. Similarly, I ask that economic analyses be carried out prior to the adoption of a localization resolution for the investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and for this to be recorded in the law that needs to be corrected, i.e. reject, but if it moves on to further proceding, it must certainly be improved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u201	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u202	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! After the entry into force of this law, spatial planning will practically cease to exist. I wanted to ask you why this bill was being processed on its knees in a sloppy way. There is a need for reliable legislation, because there is simply a rubble that will destroy our common public space for many years, and public space is a common good that needs to be taken care of, because it shapes and raises us. We want more housing to be built, but rationally. On the other hand, this bill will cause city spills, although for many years they have been trying to prevent it from being done by urban planners, as well as your document on the strategy for responsible development. The effect of this law will be to settle in agricultural areas, far from all road and social infrastructure, especially against the provisions of local spatial planning plans. And the worst part of all this is that in this law you limit the participation of residents in planning and investment processes concerning the construction of those areas that are around the places where they live. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u203	Thank you. I would like to cordially welcome the ladies of the Zareka Rural Housewives who are listening to our debate. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The spatial charge is a value to be protected. This draft law, which will not honor spatial planning, i.e. local law, can have irreversible negative effects on urban space, landscape. You can solve housing cases without violent interference in the space that has been nurtured for years. I am surprised that the rapporteur, the long-standing president of Świdnica, is so willing to support these solutions, knowing that they harm cities. For hundreds of years in the city... urban space will be destroyed. I ask the Member and the former President to reflect. The people won't forgive you. It's just impossible. I have a question. What will be the activities of developers in Natura 2000 areas, which are very large in Lower Silesia? What will be the actions of investors in areas of strict health protection, as well as in areas at risk of flooding? I will remind you of 1997. Wrocław, Kozanów settlement, which was built in flood areas after the war - the inhabitants suffered very much, most of the resources were destroyed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer and a reflection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u205	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I am amazed that there may be such a record that housing investments or associated investments are carried out regardless of the existence or arrangements of the local spatial planning plan. Minister, I can't understand how a man who's been sent to the Sejm from the local government can be so ruthlessly destroying the community's achievements? Do you have any idea what housing estates are like that were made without spatial planning plans in the 1990s, at the beginning of the two thousand years? They're a shame to us today that we couldn't plan the landscape rationally. [[Applause]] And you today's bill abolishes the enormous achievements of many local government officials who have recently made great efforts to adopt spatial planning plans? I know this is a very difficult process, but look at how the quality of this housing infrastructure has improved. After all, these plans define everything: height of buildings, density of buildings, public infrastructure. It's all there. You guys cut it all in one move and you firm it up... I respect you very much - this group that has been present here, from PiS, I respect you very much - also for work, for self-government achievements. And today, you're firming what you've been told to company for party cameramen who don't have... who don't have a clue about it, who's been destroying the local government from the very beginning. Shame on you, really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it should never have happened. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u207	Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The planned changes in the development law arouse enormous social emotions. You're doing everything you can to get the Sejm to approve it before the summer break, the Senate has approved it, and the president has signed it, and you'll be able to show off that you're building apartments before the local elections. But the people see that this is another legal bubble that should never be in this House, and they will settle you. Now you're gonna say, "We're gonna build everything, everywhere, just so that this can be promised before the local elections." You want the Treasury companies to build their apartments as powerful as possible. Are these apartments going to be built even in conflict with the zoning plan, Minister? Do you want State Treasury companies to be developers now so that PKP can build apartments? Let the PKP handle the transports, because everything doesn't go so well with this company, so let the PKP handle the transports, not the construction of the apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u209	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u210	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! This law already has its name: lex developer. That name will stick to you, and you won't be proud of it. I have a question for Mr Peter King, rapporteur of the deregulation committee. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] What were the arguments raised at the committee meeting for rejecting the request for a public hearing? Because we're working on this act in super urgent mode, as if the government has given the griffin the urgency of this project, and you can't have a full debate, you can't popularize its solutions. But also the creators of this bill, this scumbag can't listen to critical assessments. And one more question to the rapporteur: Did the deregulation committee take into account opinions? Has she had the opportunity to read the report for today's meeting with the opinion to be drawn up jointly by the Committee on Infrastructure [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the local government committee? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u211	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The best measure of sustainable development is spatial governance. One of the most important functions of self-government is the exercise of the right to decide on spatial development, and decisions in this area determine the quality of life of residents for generations. You are proposing a record of the location of the housing tissue outside the zoning plan or contrary to the findings of the local zoning plan. Unfortunately, such records can only appear in the minds of madmen. I'm saying it with full responsibility. It's crazy because the consequences are gonna be horrible. With this procedure, when all circumstances cannot be weighed and the local government will act under the pressure of large investors, which needs to be known, any spatial conflict, and its mass, will be a social conflict in the future. It always is. And you will be permanently responsible for that. This is in a situation where one third of the country's territory, because there are local spatial management plans, has been designated for the development of areas that allow the location of housing for 70 and 100 million people. It can only happen in the head, unfortunately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Crazy people - adopt these kinds of solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u213	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are ladies from the village housekeepers' Circle, and so I remembered that there is a recreational area in my house, where near the village hostels, a few circles - because this is such a nice party - voluntary fire department organizes parties. And I have to say, in light of this bill... [[Voice from the room: Now there will be a block.]] ...if you find a smart developer and get councilmen from one, the other or the third commune, there will be no such events. They're not gonna be there because he's gonna put a five-story building there. Four floors are gonna be apartments, and there's gonna be a beautiful commercial area downstairs. That's the bill, Minister. That is the law, and that can be the result. However, I have this question: have you even considered the costs that local governments will incur due to this forecasted spillover of the city under this law? Have you ever wondered how many more local governments will spend on all kinds of infrastructure that is necessary for the lives of the inhabitants - on roads, on waterworks, on other installations without which the inhabitants cannot live? What are the costs, what is the scale of growth? Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you about the question of consultation. Is there at least one local authority, even one small community that supported this law? Has there been one corporation? local government from one voivodship, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] She backed this bill? I don't think so. But if the Minister has at least one letter of support, I would ask that the Minister be polite to present it and to say which government has supported this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u215	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we're talking about moving the lake, then... [[Shift.]] ...it was a movie that was wanted, wanted, and not an Alternative 4. Even fun movies have to be memorized if you want them later... [[Listen, you'll see what happened.]] ...in the debate. Mr Wilczyński asked me about the minds of the madmen. I understand that among these minds of madmen, Mr Wilczyński mentions the mind of the President of Warsaw, who issued a one-year 516 decision on the conditions of construction without any development plans... [[That's what you have to fight.]] ...space. Among these lunatics is President Lublin, who made such decisions in the year 142? [[Fight the wousts.]] Is there a president of Poznań among these lunatics who made such decisions for 295 in one year? Or maybe the president of Gdańsk, who gave them up nearly 100, or the President of Krakow, who gave them up nearly 500? [[About!]] We live in a reality that is... [[Voice from the room: And everything underneath the apartment?]] Under the apartment. [[Mr. Marshal, what is this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u217	Minister, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not make it difficult for the Minister to speak. Proceed. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Well... [[A voice from the hall: Then tell the Minister the truth.]] Didn't you hear me? Don't you understand Polish? [[A little more polite, Mr. Marshal?]] Proceed, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: I would ask you to remember the number of decisions, Madame, about the construction conditions that were issued last year, only for residential buildings, both single-family and multi-family. There's over 83,000. decisions about the conditions of buildings that turn Polish cities into spatial chaos, which lead to the spilling of these cities, lead to social costs, leading to exactly what you were talking about. We are living in a reality that needs to be improved, while the state represents this reality as an ideal reality. All you have to do is drive around Poland to see what this reality looks like today. [[Fix it for the better, not for the worse.]] Mr Suchoń spoke in his club speech about a deviation from the standards. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you what this deviation from standards is all about. It is a contract with the municipality to transport the children to the school in a situation where the municipality agrees that the investor should sign such an agreement to transport the children to the school. Deviate from the standards, i.e. specifically from that, in this law can only be because the standards are recorded in the law. So far, no one in Poland has required anything from investors, and we directly write down standards that will be required from investors. This is a contract that is as follows: if you want to build faster, you have to meet high urban standards. [[And you're gonna walk away from them right away.]] [[Do you guys have ADHD?]] It is always with the consent of the local government, always with the consent of the so-called. high standards, which we have written very precisely. There's no deviation from them, because they're conditioned... [[What do you mean, it's gone? There are derogations.]] What the Member wanted to mention, he quoted, I must explain. It's all about getting the kids to school, there's no others. Why? Because they are subject to a permit for use. I answer the question as to whether it would be enough to comply with the study. Compliance with the study is included, because studies cover the entire space of Polish cities, i.e. All cities have a study. If we're talking spatial planning, it's spatial planning, current spatial planning, it's 16%. Polish cities. [[16%, exactly.]] It's the ones that were created on the basis of an existing law. We've got a 1% increase in zoning plans. per year. Is that satisfying? Is it satisfactory that statistically such planning lasts at least 3 years and that every third plan does not cover even 1 ha of the area? This isn't spatial planning, it's dealing with individual cases. Will agricultural land cause damage to space? Ladies and gentlemen, we have 900 thousand in Polish cities. ha agricultural land. The process of their depopulation is highly prone to corruption and very, very transparent. We in this act give a chance to locate housing investments in agricultural areas, which are very often well connected, with access to the school in the immediate vicinity of the estate, with good access, with the approval of local authorities in a very simplified manner. Mrs Janyska asked whether this project was consulted, why we are proceeding so quickly. Anyway, it's been happening a lot. [[Not that movie, I didn't ask.]] We've been working on this project for four months. More than 260 entities were involved. These are the comments that we have taken into account in this project, because this project, as rightly pointed out in this debate, has changed as a result of those comments that have affected us. All those who wanted to improve this project, including local authorities, improved it together with us so that it would be a compromise between expectations that relate to public space and social expectations, which is faster and cheaper building of apartments. In fact, to be precise here, we asked the Central Anti-corruption Bureau for anti-corruption protection for this project. Mrs Sibińska unfairly attacked Mrs April, who quoted the actual data of the CSO. If you believe that there is so much land under plans in Poland, why are the prices of this land so high? Only the launch of more land supply today can have a positive impact on this market. We have a situation today where developers have land banks. They decide on supply, they decide on margin, they decide on how much Poles buy apartments and Poles overpay for housing. We have to stop this. Why is there such a broad catalogue of accompanying investments? That's why we shouldn't have such housing estates as today, where there are only blocks where there isn't enough distance from school, kindergarten, clinics, services. ♪ We're gonna ♪ we have written with proportions and distances in an extremely precise way. Is one cottage enough to make such an investment? No, just read the bill. There's no doubt about that. When it comes to scams, you must, as I understand it, go to the president of Gawłowski for tutoring, but when it comes to getting along, it is not getting along, it is getting along with the municipality. The municipality is responsible for spatial planning. It is the municipality that decides on the development of the land. This municipality, the municipality council can agree to a residential investment, whether it is in spatial planning mode or in the mode we propose. The municipality is always the owner of this land. This municipality may and should conclude agreements with investors which will benefit the community of residents affected by the implementation of this investment. What we need it for," asked Mrs Młyńczak. Well, we need to finally build large housing estates in Poland, which will cover even several thousand apartments, in cheaper railway, rural, post-industrial, post-professional or agricultural areas. They're microcities. There must be other functions, there should be other functions for this area to be functional, consistent, comfortable to live. It can't just be building blocks. This law gives the possibility to build such large investment projects as part of the "Accommodation+" programme, which has not been built in Poland so far. Should the costs, the economic impact of this or other investment carried out under this scheme be calculated? Ladies and gentlemen, we are raising the bar much higher than it is today. Today, if an investor goes after a decision regarding the conditions of construction, he doesn't have to do anything. However, we will have him bring the urban and architectural concept, which will be a complete set of information for the commune council, the basis for this decision, moreover, will also have all the opinions and consent, will be prepared by professionals, will be something that will allow rational decisions of the commune council, and the rank of this concept in this law is very high. The cross-bar for investors who wish to use this mode is much higher than for today's solutions, whether directly with regard to the planning permit or the decision on the construction conditions. I would also like to reiterate what I said in our debate at the committee meeting. Where there is a spatial planning plan, there is no problem, no one will use this mode, because today it will be faster to follow the plan. However, we have such situations when one detail in the local spatial development plan causes changes. E.g. Apartment+ is no longer implemented in Katowice, only a year later, because it took a year to change the plan, even from housing to housing, so we are dealing with a situation in which we simplify the procedure, with the approval of the local government, but in no way interfere with the competence of the local government. I reply to Mrs Chmiel. Public participation is ensured at every stage of this process: and at the location stage, and at the construction permit stage. As for Mr Owl's question, which investments can be made in protected areas, I will answer: none. [[I wasn't talking about protected at all.]] Well, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but there was a question about what investments might be in protected areas -- none at all. I mean. We in this project protect every protected area even more than it is today. There is no possibility of building in protected green areas, not in Natura 2000 sites, or in any other area that is legally protected, and there is no doubt about it. The draft of this law does not include any intention to build anywhere, it is about unlocking cheaper areas, once again I will say, in order to increase the supply of these areas, shorten the procedures. Faster means cheaper, more affordable apartments means a better offer for Poles. Yes, it was Mr Sowa who asked what the settlements would look like, which would be created without spatial planning. Every day there are settlements in Poland without spatial planning plans, so we talked about it, I will propose complex solutions, system solutions in the field of spatial planning, and that is what I am committed to in the framework of the so-called. urban and construction code, such system solutions will be provided by the state. You don't need these remarks about party appliances. However, I would like to stress once again that I, as a self-government officer, know what spatial planning means... [[So do we. So do we.]] ...Mr. Marshal, and I would like to say that where I worked in the local government, there was 100%. The plan. I recommend this solution to everyone: the President of Warsaw, President of Bydgoszcz, President of Lublin, President of Poznań, President of Gdańsk, President of Krakow, all those who devastate space in their cities, and today with your voices trying to turn the cat's tail. Whether we are going to drive companies from the Treasury to build apartments, asks Mr Truskolaski. No, the PKP will not build apartments, moreover, it is really difficult to read from this bill, but if the Member has read it, then I am denouncing it. Have we given it urgency? Yes. The expectation is that these investments will be made on a large scale and will be implemented as soon as possible. That is the expectation of Poles. We want to start next year with 100,000. apartments within the scheme of living+, but we did not ignore the public consultation. [[There's no public hearing.]] We have spoken with the Council of Dialogue since March, 2.5 months - with the local government. We talked to chambers, with experts, with city movements, and on 27 April 2018 we held a public consultation summary meeting, where there were several hundred people from different parts of Poland and we seriously talked about this law, taking into account almost all directions and local government, and the social side. As for the ladies in the village housekeeping circle, nothing will happen to the recreational area. What is more, I will say that thanks to this bill it will not be so that only blocks will be created, because it will be so that there will be a duty of common space - it is written in standards - in the implementation of the housing investment there will be a place for recreation or on the field. Thanks to this, in Poland space will be more coherent, more functional and more comfortable for all those who live in Poland, because beauty will liberate us, as he said in his exposé, quoting Scruton, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is a step towards building a common good and taking care of it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the good that is common space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Mr Suchoń, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you absolutely didn't understand what I was talking about. I read into the bill and when it comes to e.g. on standards, in Article. 17 is said to be a building in the city up to 100,000. residents may not be higher than four floors of ground floors. Now let's imagine a situation where these buildings are in the area. According to Art. 19 new investment will be able to have two more floors, right? 50%. That's how it's written... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: The local government decides this.]] But Minister, we're talking about the bill creating a breach in public space. Yeah, that's what we're saying, and that's clearly what the law says. I understand what you're saying: that the final decision can be made by the local government, making a breach in the spatial planning plan, but we are still talking about the fact that this law is among others. That's why it's bad, because it creates breaches. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the spatial planning plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u219	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Soboń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u220	If this is a breach, then I really didn't understand, because the only breach is the possibility of bringing the kids to school. Mr. Speaker! This self-government is the owner of the land, it is the self-government responsible for public space. We in the original version planned for this to be the voivode's location decision. The government convinced us... [[Lucky for you.]] ...that it's a system issue, and we've divided these rations. This change, which was introduced in the draft law at the request of the local government, gives the local authorities the opportunity to respond to local conditions, i.e. in more urban areas, these standards can be more stringent, for example. shorten the necessary distance to public transport or school, while in less urban areas local authorities expected us to give them the opportunity to increase these distances, and yesterday at the meeting of the deregulation committee, a representative of the Polish Towns Association said that there should be no percentage reduction in the increase or reduction of these distances, because we entered 50% , just to give the local governments total freedom to determine these distances, because it is the local government - once again - it hosts the place and there are local governments who will benefit from it and who are waiting for this bill. I do not want to be questioned, but I will be very happy to pass on the position and written position of one of the local communities, and the positions of many city presidents who support this project, because really not all presidents in Poland have... [[But concrete, Minister.]] ...just your political ambitions. There are also presidents in Poland who care about common space and the well-being of their residents. [[You've made a lot of effort.]] [[Minister, please read this project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u221	Okay, thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. We'll settle this in the voting block. [[This should go to the Infrastructure Committee.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Three minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 58 hrs. 14 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws (prints 2678 and 2714). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u222	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, respectively, in print Nos 2678 and 2714. The draft law was examined at the committee meeting. It received a positive opinion from the committee. It is worth noting that an amendment was tabled during the process, which concerns the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, which clarifies the provisions aimed at creating specific rights for children between the ages of 3 and 16 as regards children with a disability judgment as regards access to medical services. This amendment was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting, which I also welcome with great satisfaction because I tabled this amendment and it will no longer give rise to any doubt that children will also benefit from the law which was adopted by the Sejm in May. The law itself is in fact a consequence of an agreement with residents which was signed on 8 February 2018. It should be stressed that, among other things, as a result of this signed agreement in the case of residents who decide to continue working within the Polish borders, the work which will be provided here will be possible as part of the residency to obtain additional funding: in deficit specialties of PLN 700 and in other specialties of PLN 600. This law also regulates another important demand, which is the issue of remuneration in the case of specialist doctors. And so in the case of work with one provider - I think about the public provider - in the end this amount is to be 6750 PLN gross. Other matters are also regulated under this law - the issue of medical services in the case of residents or the question of the status of a public official. All of this was discussed at the committee meeting and, once again, recommending the High House to adopt this law, I would like to stress that the committee's vote on the whole act took place without opposition, there were votes in favour and abstentions. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u223	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. The provisions of the proposed law contain solutions resulting from the social dialogue, which results in an agreement between the Minister of Health and representatives of the Agreement of National Medical Associations of 8 February 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Agreement. The Parties to the Agreement have identified as the primary objective of their actions an increase in the availability and quality of healthcare services by increasing the funding of the public health system and ensuring better working conditions for healthcare professionals. One of the key changes is to accelerate the growth rate of financial expenditure - which is included in this law - so that these 6% gross domestic product was intended for health protection as early as 2024. Thus, in a shorter period more benefits could be financed. The Act states that a doctor who specializes in an area not defined as a priority will receive an increase in remuneration of PLN 600 per month, while in the field referred to as priority - PLN 700 per month. In order to receive a higher basic salary, the doctor will have to submit a signed commitment to work in the country for a minimum period of time - we are talking here about a total of 2 years in the next 5 years following the completion of the specialization training. The measures necessary to raise the basic salary will be transferred to the specialist training entity on the basis of an agreement concluded with the Ministry of Health. The regulations implement one of the points of agreement and address problems concerning both the creation of mechanisms to protect against the emigration of doctors educated in the Republic of Poland and the financial situation of doctors specializing in residency. On the one hand, it is expected that the solutions adopted should create a greater incentive for doctors to start specialisation while at the same time signing a commitment to work in the country at a certain time after the end of specialisation to create better prospects for securing citizens' health needs. The project assumes that programmed medical shifts are included in the cost of financing residential contracts, which I think is a very good solution because healthcare providers or specialised institutions have restricted, you can say, access of resident doctors to these shifts. This option will, on the one hand, improve the financial condition of those involved in specialisation training, which should also increase their number and, on the other hand, give the Minister of Health additional instruments of impact as regards the correctness of the implementation of this training element. The proposed law sets out the way in which healthcare providers who have concluded contracts with the National Health Fund covering the provision of health care services under 24 or 24 hours' or 24 hours' conditions, financial resources to cover the cost of raising the basic salaries of specialist doctors - that is another very important request based on the employment relationship - to the level of PLN 6750 and the cost of the increase due for the service allowance. The proposed bill is not only expected by employees, resident doctors, but above all its effects are something that will be good for patients. Therefore, Law and Justice fully supports and supports the provisions of this Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u225	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the procedated draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No. 2678. This is a government project, which is the result of negotiations conducted after the strike of residents. The main objective of this law is to increase the availability and quality of medical services, including improving the financing of medical personnel. The increase in health funds is an absolutely undisputed urgent need, but the proposal submitted by the government, with an increase of up to 6% GDP with current funding of 4,7% , is unsatisfactory due to the spread over time, until 2024. Current health challenges require acceleration. Medical development, progress, innovation of therapy, but also an ageing society, epidemics of chronic diseases, civilizations impose on us, politicians, an obligation, and even the need to introduce new systemic solutions, increase the availability of health services, as well as funding. With the assumption of long-term and slow growth, we will not come close to European standards, and we will move away from them. There is a need for more money in a shorter period of time, as well as a need to recognise health not only as a priority but even as a national state right. For this to happen, a great deal of determination is needed. The platform proposed reaching 6% GDP over 4 years, clearly indicating additional sources of funding. Unfortunately, the draft submitted has not become the subject of a debate. We all want to increase funding and improve service quality unanimously, but this must be done much faster. In addition, in the justification of the project, we focus only on one of the elements that have been negotiated with doctors, namely the increase in salaries for resident doctors and specialists. Here the surprise, as it would seem obvious that the matter is clear, the agreement is signed, and yet yesterday's position of the Chief Medical Chamber was conservative, and the young doctors of the residents clearly said that all the demands contained in the agreement were not met. The government responded: let us accept what is, and the talks will last longer, maybe a year, maybe two, we don't know. That doesn't sound good. Unfortunately, this law does not implement all the findings, so government promises have become unbelievable. In addition, an amendment was also tabled - and it is very important and good that it has been notified - which ensures the right to free access to medical devices for children, but the fact that this is being introduced since 1 July this year is crazy. Well, we're used to the fact that we work quickly, instantly, that the law is being broken, that the procedure is bending according to interpretation needs. Now it turns out that not always promises that are negotiated at the table, that is reality and truth. So we understand the position of young doctors, because this is not really a good lesson for them. In conclusion, this direction of change is absolutely supported, the increase in funding also, but concerns arise in the form of a long-term time and a way of proceding. This is why the Platform will vote in favour of this law, but at the same time we are making amendments. We hope that they will be adopted and that we will continue to proceed on this project. And these amendments we want to help deliver on the promises made by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm putting the Marshal of Corrections in your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many, many years, it has been forgotten in Poland that in order for the health system to function well, a sufficient number of doctors, but also nurses, are needed. And we got what we got. There was no generational change expected by the system. The fact that we have entered the European Union has contributed to the fact that there has been an exodus of doctors because of what may not be wrong. Just after Poland entered the European Union. At the moment, we have a crisis that doesn't have the right number of doctors and nurses in the system, as I said earlier. And this bill is heading in that direction to change these trends. It is a law - I call it that - anti-crisis, which is indeed the result of the previously mentioned agreement between residents and the government, but in this law there is only part of these agreements. In order for the whole system to change - which I expect - in addition to the changes that are included in this project, there must finally be a revision of the cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, because if the system of training of doctors in Poland does not change itself, we will not be able to bury this generational hole, which has been created for many years. We can say that now we're dealing with some sort of laceration of a hole sock, where, with more wear, new holes appear all the time. The law, which is the subject of our deliberations at the moment, gives me a little optimism, because the changes are actually going in the right direction. These changes include issues of guaranteed benefits, on-call services, higher wages for residents who commit to work in establishments that have an agreement with the NFZ for 2 years within 5 years. I would like to stay here because it is a total misunderstanding for me over the years that we are training doctors on a very expensive scale for our budget, and a light hand let these doctors go to better developed countries and pursue their professional lives there. I understand that these moves, which actually increase the pay of doctors to residents, have a purpose to stop this exodus, but I have concerns whether these are increases enough to change these trends permanently. On the other hand, as regards the issue which is also contained in this law, i.e. the increase in gross remuneration for specialist doctors, provided that they work only in one institution without doing the same work in another, it can be said in this way: Europe knows such solutions, it is a matter of obligation, that this must be the case. As far as I know, this situation is in Germany, but there are also a sufficient number of doctors there. As a patient, I have some concerns - because there's freedom here, the doctor can choose whether he wants an extra salary to be associated with one institution or if he's actually going to make money in several establishments, not one, because he's gonna be moonlighting in others - whether it's going to increase the queue for specialist doctors. This raises my concerns, because I talked about this not with the medical community, but with the nursing community, and from what I've been given, it seems that if it weren't for this kind of jobs, jobs, jobs, it would be really missing in these nurses' systems. And that's probably the biggest risk that this law poses, the point is that as a result of this solution, these queues, which are increasing every year, will just increase even more. That's my biggest reservation about this project. It was with great pleasure that I accepted the amendment tabled by my previous speaker, Mr Latos, which changes the records relating to disabled children. It is very good that this amendment is already here, certainly this is a very good solution. To sum up, this bill is definitely going in the right direction. It's not the fulfillment of all dreams, but it's got to start somewhere. We as Kukiz.15 will certainly not be throwing a lock here and we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u229	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many times in this plenary room and during the meetings of the Health Committee, we have addressed the problems of the organisation of the health system. Most of these discussions were forced by protest actions of various professional groups, whose representatives rightly demanded decent working conditions - I stress: work - and wages, while paying attention to the growing problem of lack of medical staff, which ultimately affects the Polish patient, so also all of us. The draft law on amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, which we are discussing today, was created by agreement with representatives of not the whole environment, but only one group, which is extremely important, which is the OZZL Residents Agreement. In February, when 21 points of the joint declaration of endorsing the protest for many months were reached, it was argued that this was the beginning of good changes in the health system. The Minister declared an increase in expenditure on health care. However, I have doubts: How will the inclusion in the budget of a write-down for the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification and the costs associated with the Gambling Problems Fund increase the availability of medical services for patients? What more benefits will there be? The Health Committee meeting yesterday lacked clear answers to these questions. When discussing this draft law, it is also worth raising other issues. What will the additional amount of about PLN 2 billion be spent on? When meetings are planned with representatives of further professional groups, which would be the fulfilment of § 10 ww. agreements? What is the timetable for actions to implement the basket of guaranteed benefits and their valuation in accordance with § 12 agreements? What is the timetable for the implementation of the remaining commitments entered into in the agreement? These are questions from my interpellation, which I addressed to the Minister of Health on 1 March this year. Nearly a month after the agreement entered into force, I had already expected preliminary plans for its implementation. However, the answers to these, it would seem, would have been simple questions I have not received until today. Although it is reprehensible in my view to conclude an agreement with only a part of the environment and to exclude other representatives of medical and non-medical professions from the dialogue, as a doctor of practice, I see the complexity of the problem and the need to finance the Polish health system. Even a small increase in expenditure is needed, declared by the Ministry, in order for Poland to come out of a group of countries of the European Union which spend the least on health protection. We want to believe in the declarations made by the Minister of Health yesterday that this is the first stage of change and that talks with other professional groups will soon be undertaken. We also know that the bill is supported by the medical community. We will therefore vote in favour of it, hoping that the Ministry of Health will behave elegantly and will undertake to deliver on the promises made. At the same time, the Modern Posel Club submits amendments to the draft law to Marshal Sejm, which will allow the Ministry of Health to comply with the terms of the agreement of 8 February 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many of my previous speakers have said about the investigation into this law, the investigation into solutions and the adoption of them in the High House. Mrs Anna April said that increasing spending is a change expected by the medical environment, by the patient's environment. Of course, this is a change expected by all of us. But it's won by the resident doctors' community. They carried out a hunger strike for almost a month in October 2017, which resulted in the adoption of a law increasing the expenditure on health protection in Poland to 6%. GDP. Later, at the turn of the year, they conducted their protests in individual cities. This is the heroic struggle which young people, deciding to strike hunger, the most extreme, most difficult form of attention, fighting for their demands, have taken, because they have seen the inactivity and helplessness of the rulers today. 63% At the time Poles supported the hunger strike, 34 patient organisations supported the protest of resident doctors. Over 50 people were on a hunger strike. I want to remind you of these numbers, because these are the real authors of these solutions. These are those people who deserve real gratitude and respect for being able to fight for their rights. It is good that there is also reflection in the rulers and that an agreement has been reached - after Minister Szumowski has assumed the role of Minister of Health. We were hoping that the implementation of this agreement would take place much faster, there is already a delay. This could also be done in November when the first version of the bill was voted on. We tabled an almost identical amendment on the increase in expenditure by 2024. At the time 215 members of the PiS were against it. I'm looking at President Latos. I know he'd want to be for it. This is the always good spirit in the PiS on medical matters, and I hope that this good intention will one day include a larger group of PiS Members. I know this is a difficult hope, but I'm gonna keep trusting. We are now dealing with the same amendment. I hope that today the PiS will behave differently in the vote. The reasons for the difficult health situation discussed by Mr Ruciński and Mr Kozłowski focus on the main three points. The ageing population, the gigantic challenges of caring for the senior generation, the generation of people of dignified age, the medical needs that are increasing every day, new medical technologies, access to new research, both laboratory and imaging research, new diagnostics and therapeutic processes cause that despite the increase in expenditure, which has occurred for not two years, only for a decade - the National Health Fund comes in every year, due to the amount of contributions paid by our fellow countrymen - we still do not have the needs satisfied at the level at which Poles expect it. And personnel problems, that's the thing. key in this solution as well. It is good that it is thinking about how to stop, how to encourage as many doctors to stay in Poland. There are no solutions for nurses, no solutions for physiotherapists, no solutions for paramedics. This is the disability of your health policy. You didn't present any offer at the moment for the other environments. I hope this happens as soon as possible. Another thing, we have heard many times promises of returning Poles to Poland from the UK, from the Netherlands, from other European countries. It is now a question: How many doctors have returned to Poland since PiS took power since October 2015 and is now doing its job here? How many nurses, how many paramedics? How many left? I ask the Minister to answer this question in writing. I also ask for an answer, including in writing, when solutions are presented for other groups, for other medical professions that I mentioned earlier. As the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, we support the solutions presented, but we will also monitor whether they are continued. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to other professional groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u233	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Circle, I will present my position on the government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The situation of Polish health care is bad and we are all aware of it. The lack of funding and the years of negligence primarily result in insufficient protection of the health and life of our citizens, but they were also the cause of the protest of residents, which after many long and difficult talks ended with a compromise and the signing of an agreement with the Minister of Health. I am pleased that today's draft law implements a number of solutions contained in the agreement. These include: increasing health expenditure to 6% GDP by 2024, cash allowances for doctors specialising in the amount of PLN 600 or 700 per month, depending on whether this specialisation is defined as a priority, and increase the basic salaries of specialist doctors. In addition, it is worth mentioning, at a certain rate, the inclusion of programme hours of medical services in the costs of financing residence contracts, the inclusion of doctors and dentists in legal protection due to a public officer and, in view of the current demography of our society, the obligation of doctors to work in the country for a total of at least 2 years in the next 5 years following the completion of specialization training. I am not surprised that many of the proposed solutions will include doctors who practice in medical entities that have agreements with the National Health Fund. I share the view that it is appropriate to direct support and additional funding flows where most recipients can benefit from this, and these entities are precisely such a place. This limitation does not change the fact that this law has a positive effect on the working conditions of medical staff, which should be dignified and safe. This is one of the key factors in the proper functioning of the healthcare system. I am convinced that today's regulations will increase the comfort of doctors' work and thus improve their quality. The solutions contained in the Act will also have a major impact on increasing universal access to benefits, among others. by guaranteeing qualified staff who gain additional incentives to stay in their homeland. Of course, the pace of processing novels can be argued, but this does not affect the fact that when it comes to the findings in this area, it - among other things. by the government project procedure - this has already been exceeded by a few days. What is more important in my opinion, however, is to assure the Minister that this law is not the end of the work, that further changes, further improvements to the situation of Polish health care solutions will be developed and, as a result, the compromise made with such difficulty will not exist only on paper, but will bring us all real benefits. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u235	Thank you very much. Eight ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question. I'm closing the list of questions you've asked... [[What about time? One minute at a time, Marshal.]] ...and I'm setting a question time for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The terms of the agreement with the protesting doctors were to be fulfilled by 1 July. The legislative path could not have been prepared and carried out in advance. I don't really understand what a priority is, which is more important to you. Are health and standards of treatment of Poles important to you? Take a look at Pszczyna, where the hospital was wound up, take a look at Żywiec, where the new hospital has been building for 8 years. It has been mentioned for several years and the end has not been seen, and the conditions are outrageous. I don't know if any of the Members would want to be in a hospital like this. I have a question: Why is there a provision in this law that some of the increased expenditure on health care rather than on patient benefits is intended to be allocated to the evaluation agency [[♪ The bell ♪]] Medical technology? I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Health. Actually, I'm repeating the question from yesterday because I didn't exactly get the answer. Namely, I am interested in how you will systematically, year after year, spend more money on health protection, given that the main objective is to increase accessibility and improve quality. I would therefore like to know what plans you have to increase this efficiency and somehow improve quality, but I am also interested in the health priorities that you are talking about. The health debate has begun, I know very well, but unfortunately the opposition has not been invited. This voice that we wanted to bring into this discussion is not of interest to you. Hence today my question to you on this subject. Second question. How do you intend to increase the availability of health benefits if your doctor is assigned to one job? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the absence of doctors is evident. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u239	Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws is to provide wider access to benefits guaranteed in material terms. With a reduction of at least 6% by one year in the period to reach the level of expenditure GDP, i.e. By 2024, this also means their normal increase in this period compared to the current law. Thus, more benefits can be financed in a shorter period. It is undoubtedly very happy that there will be more resources in the medical services market, but I would like to ask: What is the ratio of the government, Minister, to the algorithm of the distribution of these funds between the different departments of the National Health Fund, which, for example. very strongly discriminates against the Opolskie voivodship, which I am a representative of? Are you wondering about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you change that? Isn't that an opportunity just...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u241	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u242	...tonight's proceedings over the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u243	...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u244	Thank you, Marshal. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, where the procedure was quick, because there was an indictment concerning people with disabilities, and unfortunately you did not agree to a subcommittee and to talk calmly about this bill, the doctors pointed out that this law was not implementing the agreement between doctors and Minister Szumowski. Unfortunately, all of this translates into the situation of patients in health care facilities. We hear more and more that some branches are closed, some refuse to accept patients. Generally speaking, the patient does not find in the health care system what he is going for, that is, medical care. My question to the Minister. How will this law translate into a situation that today exists in the health system? When will you take action to fully implement the agreement with residents? When you talk to the representatives of other medical professions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't let the health care stop in the fall? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u245	Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My questions are about art. 4 of this Act. Point 2 of this Article guarantees funding for specialist doctors up to PLN 6750 for full-time calculation. Therefore, point 3 of this Article states immediately that the doctor will receive this funding if he makes an undertaking that he will work with one provider. The result is a further six points of this law, which generate bureaucracy in general, because the provider must submit separate documentation on these commitments, the National Health Fund, the Minister for Health. The question is simple. Minister, using some experience from the past, wouldn't it be better to note that this amount of gross remuneration is received by a doctor of a full-time specialist with one [[♪ The bell ♪]] Providers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u247	Mr Tomasz Latos...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u248	...instead of generating red tape? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u249	... Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u250	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Here there were various kinds of declarations and interest in reaching 6% GDP. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, I am this, I am not hiding, I am interested, because from the beginning I have been involved in the work on this increase in funding, whether work has already been carried out before the protest of residents, and there have also been certain declarations in the Health Committee that such an increase in funding is prepared or not. Of course, the residents raised this demand and praised them for it, but I want it to be fully clear that this government had the intention of increasing the expenditure to introduce, unlike what happened in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u251	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u252	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! My question concerns the article that has already been discussed, including: How do you really want to increase your expenditure on health services, reduce queues by 2020, if we are still talking only and exclusively about spending from the national medical staff fund. What is the payment to the amount of PLN 6720 at the moment, if not the embalming, as before for nurses, which is still maintained. So right now, we're gonna pay the doctors from the national fund, and then what? When are we gonna start paying off other jobs? That's my question. Therefore, I would like to know whether queues will actually decrease by 2020 and end by 2020, because then the amount of PLN 6720 according to [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the bill, all doctors reach. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u253	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is good that the government is working on new solutions, but I am afraid that these solutions are far insufficient and not only will not satisfy residents, but also will not improve the situation in health care, which is becoming more acute. I have a question. How many doctors are missing in Polish hospitals, in public hospitals? The information is alarming. There are reports from many hospitals that some of the hospital departments can be closed down and even the entire hospitals can be closed. Reducing the employment of doctors to one public provider will make access to specialist doctors much worse, which is already very difficult today. I have a question. When will the situation improve when it comes to shortening queues to specialists who are at the moment a nightmare? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u255	Thank you. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I am pleased that we all agree that this is the right direction. I am also pleased with the declaration that the law will be adopted by you. I have the impression that today's discussions have strengthened the role of details of solutions which are probably not the most important in this law. The most important thing is that, finally, there will be a legally guaranteed increase in expenditure on health care. If we follow up on recent years, we will see that the thesis has been made that spending on health care is steadily increasing. Indeed, nominally, the expenditure on health care is growing, but if you refer it to GDP in recent years, unfortunately, it is decreasing. This law ensures that, with the country's economic growth, with GDP growth, these expenditures will not only increase, they will grow faster and faster. So it seems that for the questions asked today about whether this law will actually reduce queues, whether this law will increase the availability of benefits, whether this law will improve medical staff and the situation related to training not only doctors, but also nurses and employees of other medical professions, the answer is simple: this should happen. Since we have been talking for many years about the fact that money is a problem in health care, this law, which guarantees a stable, additionally accelerated growth in relation to the assumptions of that year, must ensure this. I would like to refer to your comments on the fact that the agreement with residents was broader and today the Ministry of Health does not follow the demands that were made in this agreement. I already said at the committee meeting: of course, that the law on 6% it does not meet all the demands, because some of them already in the agreement have been defined as postponed in time. Example: the team at the Ministry of Health together with representatives of resident doctors is working on a medical on-call case, the conditions of which are to be developed by the end of the first quarter of 2019. The agreement also set out activities related to the increase in the recruitment of higher education institutions and the activities related to the profession of medical assistant or took into account the review of the basket of guaranteed benefits. It is known that this law does not reflect these demands, because it is impossible. These actions are being carried out, but the law of this It doesn't reflect. I'll address the specific questions. There was a question about the funding of the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification from health care expenditures. The Agency is today the same body, the same office as the Ministry of Health, the registration office of medicinal products, GIF, GIS, NFZ in its administrative part and in fact the costs incurred by these institutions are taken into account in the expenditure on health protection. It's kind of hard for me to imagine it would be different. It is an inseparable element. In particular, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification is a body which today is expected to make health funds spent effectively. It is hard for me to imagine that the costs of this body are not included in the health measures. Several questions have been asked about the plan of spending, the allocation of funds, and their referral to specific groups of healthcare providers. It seems to me that this discussion should, of course, begin, maybe even continue and continue, and I believe it will continue. As for the debate that you mentioned, which was organised by the Minister of Health, it is not entirely true in my view that there are no representatives of the opposition. It seems to me that the committee of those invited to the debate is so wide, including former health ministers from various political options, that this balance is ensured. The debate is, of course, an element to answer the question, what about these increased expenditures in the long term, I assume a 10-year period. We're talking about an accelerated rate of investment. There may be a question about the year: 2019, 2020, 2021. In my opinion, the answer is simple: we will be presenting more expenditures in the National Health Fund's financial plan, whether in 2018 or in the revision of the National Health Fund's financial plan, I hope that it is in the budget law and future budget laws, because the increased expenditure is also to go from the state budget. Several questions were also raised about conversations with other professional groups. Of course, these talks are being held. There are regular conversations with nurses, even now a meeting of the Minister of Health with nurses is held at the Ministry of Health. Discussions are taking place with different professional groups, and the fact that these groups are not included in the law we are debating results directly from the provisions of the agreement. The agreement defined the increased remuneration of resident doctors, specialist doctors, did not refer to the salaries of nurses or other medical professions, which does not necessarily mean that work and talks are not ongoing in these areas. It was Mr Latos' question whether work had been carried out earlier on the 6% law. According to my information actually work related to statutory expenditure increases - I can't answer today if we were talking about 6% Or another one, but I think it's 6%. - began, to my knowledge, in mid-2017. It seems to me that not only behind the scenes of the Ministry of Health started, but that the debate and dialogue on this issue with the various professional groups had actually started earlier, the demands for increased expenditure appeared much earlier, and the agreement with residents actually sanctioned it. I'm not gonna say it's accented, but it finally sanctioned. I'm sorry, I repeated myself. I also wanted to address the aspect of why so much bureaucracy and whether it could not be simplified and said: every specialist who works with one provider should have an increased salary. [[Full-time.]] Excuse me? Yeah, full-time. In fact, the increased remuneration of certain healthcare providers is due to the greatest problems that these healthcare providers have today. Today, and it was also signaled by resident doctors, the biggest problem are hospitals. They have a problem with the layout of the on-call schedule mainly because doctors work in several places and are not willing to be on duty in their home unit. Moreover, referring also to this aspect of the various providers, and to this aspect, whether we will run out of specialist doctors and whether this will cause the queues to be extended, I would like to emphasise three things. First of all, there is voluntaryity, as you have already noticed. A specialist doctor today has no obligation to sign an obligation that he will work in one entity, in his parent entity. He can definitely work in many, only that he chooses to do so consciously and then he has no right to benefit from an increased salary. Secondly, it should be noted that a mechanism has been introduced in the Act, such a fuse which, in the case of a situation which you are talking about, i.e. staff crisis or staff shortages in a particular hospital or region, gives the right to the director of the Regional Branch of the National Health Fund, and even requires him to identify staff shortages in a given region and to identify the individuals in which they may occur, which results in a clear right for doctors employed there to benefit from increased remuneration. Therefore, this does not translate one into one into the fact that there will be a staff crisis in hospitals. Moreover, please note that this obligation applies only to hospitals. Doctors who submit them, working with 24-hour and full-day care providers, can continue to work without any restrictions, using the right to increased remuneration, outpatient care or primary health care, which de facto, in particular as regards first outpatient care, will not immediately lead to the disappearance of professionals in the broader health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u257	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur also wants to take the floor. Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u258	Thank you again. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the committee that, despite these exaggerated reservations I believe, no one was against this law, the amendment. As for questions, it may be difficult to call it a question, but Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, who is absent, has asked me quite sympatheticly, but I will answer him. Well, there was no reason for me to support the PSL amendment, because I knew the schedule of my government's work and I knew that a document would be sent to the Sejm, an appropriate bill that would consume not only the expectations of the environment, but also our programme with which we went to the elections and which we presented from the very beginning and in the election campaign, and after winning the elections. I will point out that even before this work began, a few months earlier, Minister Radziwiłł officially made a declaration on the increase in expenditure on health care at the committee meeting. If the President had applied for an increase of up to 6% in his previous term of office GDP, then I would certainly vote for it and convince the club Law and Justice to vote for it. Unfortunately, in the previous term of office there was no such proposal. Clearly, the solution to health care problems awaited the rule of law and justice. And one last thing about the medical technology assessment agency. Ladies and gentlemen, let's understand one thing. If we are talking, also in this law, about increasing health expenditures and, at the same time, increasing health pay - we were talking about specialist doctors, resident doctors, in a word that this does not go directly to medical benefits, goes to people involved in health care, extremely important, as this is an important part of this system, because a well-paid employee will be more satisfied and more willing to do his job - there is no doubt about it - let us remember that the agency has a similar function, and the agency established in the past. Actually, I think this is one of the positives of previous governments. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, also appreciate what you have built, what was right and needed. But at the same time, without instruments, including financial instruments, this will not work. I'm already overlooking the fact that it's one decimal there, I don't know how many zeros there are in terms of health expenses, but thanks to these expenses, some decimals there, after zeros, we have secured the rationality of spending billions in health care. As a result, the agency's activity serves patients per balance and serves the reasonableness of expenditure. It's worth remembering. And don't criticize what you've actually started doing on your own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u259	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the conversion of perpetual land for residential purposes into land ownership rights (print No. 2673). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Soboń to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a law on conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership is a response to the expectations of nearly 2.5 million perpetual users, Poles, those who today own their homes, but at the same time are perpetual land users on which these houses and apartments are located. Probably with families, the number of persons covered by this law is 8 and 10 million. This has a huge social significance and a huge importance for economic turnover in Poland. We also listened to the needs of local governments, not only Poles, but also those who exercise local authority. We consulted them to protect the interests of local governments as well. That is why I would also like to thank the local government for these arrangements and for their compromise attitude. Poles have a strong attachment to property. We respond to this and propose to Poles that on January 1, 2019 property rights of land on which Polish families meet housing needs will be for all those who today are perpetual users. This solution is part of the housing programme of Law and Justice, the most important component of which is the housing+ programme. And that's part of the apartment+. We eliminate the completely irrational situation in which people who own premises and houses are not owners of the land under this place and house. We solve the burning problems of families living in multi-family buildings, housing cooperatives or housing communities where the pursuit of land ownership under housing has faced serious obstacles for years, often impossible under existing law. We have also not forgotten the owners of single-family homes, who, in the absence of other possibilities in the previous system, built their houses on public land burdened with perpetual use with the obligation to pay for the use of this land for many years. It should be recalled that the right of perpetual use was introduced into the legal system in 1961 and was then a surrogate of ownership. In the Polish People's Republic there was a principle of indivisibility of State property which did not allow the transfer of State land to citizens. Until 1989, the only way to acquire state land for investment in cities was perpetual use. The law established at that time was not prepared for the changes that happened happily in Poland. Also in the space of Polish cities it was not adapted to the fact that after 1990 a local government was established in Poland. Then, too, the perpetual use took on a little new character. The acquisition of land from the State Treasury and municipalities was allowed. The use of the legal form of perpetual use has therefore ceased to be a kind of compulsion. However, this situation has generated further legal and practical problems, which have emerged especially in cases of permanent use for residential construction. This law was originally conceived primarily as a form of transfer of land to housing cooperatives and no one thought at the time that in cooperative blocks it would be possible to separate the ownership of the premises. The impairment of the legal structure of perpetual use is particularly evident in the case of shares in this law related to the property of the premises. The existing legislation, doctrine and case law have not yet given a clear answer to the question whether the main right in this construction is perpetual use or ownership of the premises. This discussion is not only formal but also practical, because the fate of these 2.5 million perpetual users depends on the answer. on the question of what will happen to the right of separate ownership of the premises after 99 years of perpetual use. Embarrassing citizens and giving them ownership means avoiding such complications in the future. In multi-storey buildings, there are now ridiculous situations where the inhabitants of one block pay different land charges because some have appealed and others have not appealed to the local colleges of review or to the general courts. This situation deepens the sense of social injustice associated with perpetual exploitation. The long-term practice of permanent use in residential areas proves that this law does not fulfil its systemically established function. Its maintenance is completely irrational. The statutory transformation of perpetual use into property rights proposed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, once and for all, brings these legal problems and practical problems to an end, aligns the right to land with the rights to premises and houses, ensuring the strongest rights in rem: the property right of residence. Strengthening the right to land and ending with increases in annual fees will provide our country's citizens with a sense of legal stability. This is a solution that fits directly into the policy of the current government, also into housing policy under the housing+ programme. However, we must not forget that such attempts have already been made and they have often been questioned in the case law of the Constitutional Court. Our project does not repeat the mistakes of previous legislative initiatives. We have done a thorough, complete analysis of case law and we have drawn practical conclusions. In view of these conclusions, we considered that such a profound systemic change must take place gradually, in order not to overwhelm the books of perpetual self-governments, because not all of them are predictable today. This assumption allowed us to define the scope of the land needed to be converted, and we considered that it would first be the land built in single-family and multi-family buildings, together with the accompanying buildings and infrastructure enabling the proper and rational use of housing. The main objective of the project is to improve the process of total elimination of the perpetual right of use as a remnant of the period of real socialism. This objective is also pursued by the institution enshrined in this Act, i.e. delayed conversion of perpetual use when the land was built into a residential building. This solution will result in the gradual abolition of the perpetual right of use for housing purposes. Thus, the problems facing citizens today will not be re-generated. We have proposed a citizen-friendly mechanism to pay for the transformation. The current annual fee paid for perpetual use will be replaced by a conversion fee at the same amount as so far as at 1 January 2019. The added value is that the conversion payment period will be shorter than the annual fee payment period for perpetual use. In addition, citizens will no longer pay these fees as perpetual users, but as owners. There will be no need to make estimates, residents will not be surprised by jumping increases. The only possibility of increasing the value of this fee is the inflation rate, which is the only possibility. To illustrate, let me give you an example. If someone pays 60 PLN per year, by the end of perpetual use he would have to pay, say, 4800 PLN, assuming that this fee is not updated. If he made use of the 2005 Act, if he could make use of it at all, because it is very rarely possible because there must be universal agreement, he would pay for this transformation of about 1,400 PLN. According to our project, it will pay 1,200 PLN. In addition, annual discounts will be possible, while in the case of the payment of these 20 charges on the State Treasury land we have registered a 60% discount in the Act. in the first year of payment. We will also encourage local governments, as Law and Justice, to grant such discounts to their residents, so that Poles will gladly pay these fees and that this perpetual use will cease to be the topic we are talking about once and for all. Confirmation of the transformation will take the form of a certificate from the Office. This certificate will be issued either by the governor, or by the mayor or the president, depending on whether it is the territory of the State Treasury or the local government. The entry in the perpetual book will also be made out of office and free of court fees. Therefore, residents of homes and premises will not be obliged to participate or to pay additional court fees in connection with statutory derogation. Let me add that we have secured such money for perpetual books, that there will also be no problem in the work of the courts. In order to minimize the loss of the local government or something that could be called a loss, we have adopted compromise solutions. The length of this period of payment is precisely this compromise. If we compare this with the 2005 Act, the rate of payment is currently 16 and 20%. the average market value of the land. Therefore, these 20 annual charges for 1 January 2019 do not in any way reduce the revenue of the self-government from its assets, the revenue that affects the self-government for perpetual use. It is also fair to say, if this is part of our debate today, that these revenues are not extremely important for local governments today, because they are at the level of 12%. budgetary revenue. The most is in Warsaw, where they reach around 4%. all the income. Given the votes of local governments, we did not include a transformation from the law of land built exclusively by self-contained garages not related to housing. Self-governments criticized this idea, as there was a very high risk of the conversion of land under garages used for economic activities, rented and large-area commercial multi-station garages. However, I would like to reassure the garage owners, because under the current law they will be able to benefit from this mode. And if we put in place a system solution, which is our commitment and the next phase of the elimination of perpetual use, there will also be an end to perpetual use in the areas where the garages are located. As part of the planned work, we want to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to become owners. But part of the land is land that is in the use of perpetual entrepreneurs. Therefore, in the interests of legal certainty, we will consult with the European Commission on such regulations in the system solution. We will also propose a solution in the form of a different right in rem, necessary for the introduction of the Civil Code, so as to fill the gap after perpetual use. Until then, we will eliminate perpetual use for about 6%. all land of the State Treasury transferred to perpetual use and 44% all land of municipalities devoted to perpetual use. I'll say it again, 2.5. millions of perpetual users. I am absolutely convinced that this operation will go smoothly. I believe in the courts, and in the local government, and in those residents who want to benefit from the vouchers, I believe that we can do this efficiently. But these conclusions, which we will draw in the first stage, because this is 2.5 million, ultimately 4 million cases of end-of-life use, will certainly be very important in the systemic reform that I am already announcing today. And today we are solving the social problem concerning, once again, all the owners of apartments and houses who have their homes - they will finally have full ownership, because they will also have property of this land, which under this house is located under this apartment. Poles have waited a long time for this project. I am very pleased to be able to recommend today to the High House the work on this project and the adoption of this project. And I firmly believe that all parliamentary clubs will support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u261	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 27 June 2018, the project entered the Sejm and was addressed to the first reading on 3 July, I am talking about the print project No.2673. The government has developed and submitted a draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. The project involves changing the right to perpetual use to property rights and concerns land built with single-family and multi-family residential buildings. In accordance with the Government's concept, the authorisation of perpetual users will take effect by law on 1 January 2019. It follows from the justification that the project will cover around 2.5 million people, users - probably times 4 or 3, which will give about 8 and 10 million perpetual users who are waiting for system solutions to improve the transformation processes of perpetual use rights. The current legislative arrangements are insufficient, and even in some situations they do not give real opportunity to recast the law. Therefore, the proposed project is particularly expected by owners of apartments located in multi-site buildings. Owners of such premises shall be entitled to participate in the right of perpetual use of land. In such cases, the rules in force require the consent of the majority to the recast, and for various reasons it is very difficult to obtain them. For this reason, many families living in multi-storey buildings cannot obtain land ownership under the building in which the premises are located. The proposed law removes these barriers by requiring the statutory transformation of all members of the housing communities, without requiring a change of law. The Act also covers owners of single-family homes and - what is very important - also ends the time of uncertainty of citizens as to the amount of fees they incur for land under housing and houses. At present, annual subsidies for perpetual use are often increased in a stepwise way and represent a very heavy burden on domestic budgets. The project assumes that the conversion of perpetual use rights into property rights will be confirmed by a certificate issued ex officio. The transformation will be paid for. Citizens will pay annual fees for a period of 20 years from the date of the conversion. The annual fee shall be equal to the end-use charge of 1 January 2019. It also provides for the use of discounts in the form of discounts, as well as the possibility of one-off payment of all conversion fees as a total charge. For land owned by the State Treasury, in case of payment of a combined levy, compulsory discounts of between 60% and 10% were proposed, depending on the year in which the annual fee would be paid. In order to take into account the rights of local authorities, the government has provided the possibility to complete the updated annual fees for perpetual use, in which the amount has an impact on the amount of the conversion fee. In order to ensure a systematic elimination of perpetual use for housing purposes, the project proposes a ban on public land use in perpetual use for such purposes. Such a solution will in the future ensure that there are no problems that currently exist in relation to residential land devoted to perpetual use, especially in large cities. The project submitted was widely justified, agreed, consulted. It is very expected and simply provides stable law for Polish families in the field of land. Thus, this project harmonises the right to land. This is a very expected change. The Law and Justice Club proposes to support the proposed proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u263	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club regarding the government's draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. The PiS government presents us with another bill, whose assumptions are good, but their detailed records - not necessarily. It is clear that many Poles will benefit from this bill, which is why we support it. On the other hand, local governments will lose their income, i.e. the residents at the end. The Act states that each Pole who is a user of the perpetual land on which he owns an apartment or house will be the owner of this land by law after payment of the conversion fee. The Act gives the possibility to pay this fee for the next 20 years or in full in advance. In the case of perpetual use of land, the State Treasury is clear because for the payment of the fee in full in the first year after conversion each will receive 60% Increases. The problem arises in the case of the use of perpetual land of a local government unit. The Act does not regulate the amount of the voucher. Councils of municipalities, powiats and seymikas of voivodships can determine them. Some local governments will not be interested in introducing discounts. There will be an unfair system, which will enable the inhabitants of one community to obtain a bonus, and the neighbouring one, not anymore. And, for example, next door, which has the perpetual use of the State Treasury land, will receive a 60% discount And on the lot next to his neighbor, he's not. The government could not, of course, order municipalities to introduce a bonus unless it proposed a way to cover these losses, because income from perpetual land use fees is one of the revenues of their own local government units. The PiS government is shutting down this income with this bill. The responsible government should propose to the local government to cover financial losses in the form of compensation, and not, like the current government, to shift further tasks to local governments without providing them with the resources. Next year, 2019, there will not be any losses for this, so we will propose compensation as a Civic Platform covering this loss of local governments, but in the Budget Act only for 2020. By compensating for the loss of local governments from the state budget, it would be possible to align the amount of subsidies on the basis of the Treasury and local government units. Another strange solution to this law is the introduction of the highest discounts for the payment of the conversion fee in the first year after the conversion of perpetual use only from the State Treasury, I stress: only from the State Treasury, not the commune. And the first year after the transformation is the election year, 2019. You've introduced a 60% incentive. discounts only in the first year, so that Poles will pay the entire fee as soon as possible in 2019 when you are giving public money away in the election campaign. In 2017 approximately PLN 1 billion was paid to the State Treasury for the fees for the permanent use of land. After the adoption of this law, according to calculations, it can reach the budget of up to PLN 6.07 billion. That's your motivation. I would like to remind you that since 2020 the position of the State Treasury's income will disappear: perpetual usage fees, but you are not interested in what will be after 2019, because you already know that you will lose the parliamentary elections. [[Nah...]] You need money immediately, at the expense of the future income of local government units. [[Pessimism.]] Despite the reservations I have put forward, the Civic Platform supports the possibility of taking over the land used by Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u265	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law on the conversion of perpetual land for residential purposes into land ownership, print No. 2673. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there has been a long-standing discussion on the committee of the common government and local government, discussions at ministerial level, consultations, discussions and calls by our fellow countrymen shows that we are leaning on a problem that has no zero-one response. Anyone who has a house, an apartment knows that this old rule: whose land, this property, is very important and very important. Having an apartment with land property on the property is stability, certainty and guarantee that something is mine and makes sense. There's nothing worse than a lack of consciousness or a lack of conviction that something is mine, then it's so nothing, suspended, so fuzzy. Property, especially in our culture, in Polish tradition, is very important, very important. Here I lean on the issue of taxes. Everyone who pays taxes knows perfectly well that perpetual use from the tax point for the resident is more expensive. Of course, it is more beneficial for the municipality, which does not change the fact that residents are still taxpayers and even if they have property, property of this land, they will also pay taxes, but at the same time they will fall, the burden of maintaining and paying taxes will decrease. This means that part of the need to go for support is reduced, for allowances, for support subsidies from the municipality itself. Here's another thing. I don't know if I'd really care if the residents got better. After all, that's why there's a community, that's why there's a local government, to be for the residents, not for the officials, the uncle or the mayor. With all due respect, I say this as head of the Parliamentary Council, the people are simply the most important. [[Applause]] The residents are the most important, because for them there is a commune. The essence of each municipality is the inhabitants. If the residents get easier, cheaper, easier, that means it's really a plus. If I'm gonna worry about that, I'd like to have more problems like this more often, I'd like to have more. That's another line. I understand that at this point, the number of responsibilities in the municipalities will decrease because of this. I'm sure there'll be this little technical, financial and staff problem in the courts, but I think it's technically to be done. After all, we invested so much as taxpayers in the computer system in Poland that it should be verified here. At the same time, I hope it's... We're talking huge action, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about an action involving 2.5 million of our countrymen. 2.5 Millions of our compatriots have the opportunity to end with something that may go back to the 1960s, but culturally earlier years. [[Communions.]] Unfortunately, this deep commune. The 1990 amendment was an attempt to get out of this problem, but as we can see, it is not that simple at all. So we're really talking about a trial. This process does not close perpetual use in the Polish system, it will still be, but it is also a challenge. This is an important issue for the government. The question is what in 20 years' time will be with the system of funding for local governments. I don't know if by any chance we're talking about cadastral tax anymore. Somewhere in the back of my head, it's still going to be a pretext and a continuation. At the same time, I think that the new income law of the JST should give us an answer to the question of how municipalities will have to look for new ideas for finance and their development. Let's remember, the people are the most important. The Kukiz Club15 will support this and is open at this stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u267	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on converting the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights. The aim of the project is to enable the conversion of perpetual use rights on land built with residential buildings into property rights, in particular by members of housing communities. The problem of transforming perpetual use into a public debate has long been present. Numerous requests have been made in this case for years, petitions have been sent to public administrations. This problem also concerns a very large group of Poles, it was mentioned here for 2.5 million people, all the more worthy of serious treatment and leaning over it. It is also worth noting that the Ombudsman's attention in his reports was also drawn to the problems related to the permanent use of land built for housing purposes. Today's law of 29 July 2005, which must also be said very clearly, was the answer to the discussion, to the requests put forward several years ago. It granted to natural persons who were on 13 October 2005 perpetual users of land built for residential purposes the right to convert the ownership of perpetual use into property rights. This right was also granted to cooperatives and owners of apartments located in multi-storey buildings, but, however, you have already mentioned this to the Minister, because of the need to obtain all the consents of the owners of the premises this possibility was often... [[Not all of them.]] They all had to agree. If everyone didn't agree, someone might have blocked it. This was often difficult and sometimes even impossible to apply. The problem got worse after the valuation of the property, which often resulted in a radical increase in the annual fee for perpetual use, which has to be borne even for decades. The draft law submitted by the government also takes into account the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, at the joint request of the City Council of Szczecin, the Council of Ustronie Morskie and the City Council of Poznań, examined the compatibility with the 2005 Constitution of the Law. However, it did not take into account the issue raised by local authorities, which reminds them that the Constitutional Tribunal considered the unconstitutional expropriation of municipalities to be unconstitutional. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal has stated that, in so far as it concerns immovable property owned by local government units, it is incompatible with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of This issue was also the subject of a number of agreements and discussions with local authorities during the consultation of this draft law. It is worth noting that, finally, on 8 May 2017, the project was positively assessed by an authorised infrastructure team, local development, regional policy and the environment, subject to Article. 165 and Article 16 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four constitutions. As far as the issue that has been raised by my previous speakers concerning the increase is concerned, I, too, believe that we should look first at the citizens' point of view. I firmly believe that it is in the well-understood interest of local governments to introduce solutions similar to the discounts set out in the Law for the Treasury, that it is, as I said, in the interest of municipalities and representatives, because the housing objectives of the community of their small homelands are being pursued. So when it comes to this problem, I think we can bring it in. On the other hand, I fully agree that this could not be applied directly in the law, because it would have to be accompanied by, so to speak, full compensation for lost income. Thus, the Ministry has adopted one, not another, which, in my opinion, is fully defending itself here. It is also worth noting in conclusion, this was also reported that there is a problem - which has become apparent - discrepancies between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice in terms of covering all these costs. This must be remembered because the Minister of Justice is in the position that he is unable to accomplish this task. Given the importance of the problem, the Modern Posel Club, despite a number of comments, supports the submitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] the draft law and is in favour of further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u269	Thank you. The questions have been answered... And yet, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am presenting an opinion on the procedated draft law from print no. 2673. High Izbo! Minister! How different this project looks from a project not so long under consideration, how different the legislative procedure itself is. Minister, keep it up, and let's keep it going. After all, we do not want to look for what is in this, but for it to turn out, as it is said, as God has commanded, and in the law it is written. I'm not going to repeat those assumptions. We believe that the bill is relatively coherent, sets out the objective, the way to reach this goal, talks about the periods, the mechanisms, talks about the values and amounts that will apply to specific user groups. In our opinion, it should be well placed to make this assumption so that everyone is the owner of the apartment. Just a request and a suggestion, Minister. Apart from the fact that when it is 2018, next year will be 2019 and the events that are to take place will take place because this will dictate life. But couldn't we also include those who would want to make these payments and not be able to make it in the first year? It's just so human. Not everyone will be able to... [[They don't have to.]] Member, it is written down. I refer to what is written. A request for the Minister to consider whether later in the implementing regulations... Even with people, it's such a human approach, aside from other issues... The aim is to allow those who may, within two years, be able to collect these resources so that this can also be taken into account. And that's a request and a suggestion, because the Minister knows what the budgets of local governments are. 1% or 2% - we can say that this may not be important, of course not deciding on the functioning of the local government, but at 100 million it is 2 million or 1 million, and some tasks could be carried out for this purpose. As if the Minister wanted to lean on this too, let these local governments also be content and satisfied with this act of ours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u271	Thank you very much. Ten ladies and gentlemen of the Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform. He's not here either. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you two questions for the Minister. Firstly, if we submit proposals to the budget for securing compensation for local authorities in the 2020 budget, will you support this? And second question. We are talking here about converting perpetual use into residential property. I wanted to ask: How do you approach the transformation of perpetual use into property for other purposes? In many cities, the land was purchased. One pays... In addition, there are different fees depending on whether it is for services, whether it is for other functions, hospitals, there are different rights of perpetual use. How the State [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do they want to come up with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u273	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question is about garages. The minister talked a little bit about these garages, but I have a very specific question. Many local authorities have transferred perpetual land built in garages for 40 years - for the shortest period for which perpetual use can be established. For various reasons, of course, but most of all because of the chaotic buildings and some distance of location of these garages from the place of residence. I would like to ask: What will be the transformation of these lands into property rights? Will this be possible and on what basis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u275	Thank you. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on the conversion of perpetual use into property by law is proposed and expected by a large number of perpetual users for a long time. This project assumes that, as of 1 January of next year, perpetual use for land property under residential buildings will actually cease to exist. My question concerns discounts, above all those discounts, which will be able to determine the local government. In this case, what can be the maximum reduction adopted by the resolution bodies of the local government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u277	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I can honestly say that the process of converting perpetual land use into property is also partially considered my success, because it was during the two previous term that this topic was very strongly worked out by me and my experts. There was a draft law, which I put at the disposal of the Ministry during this term, which caused a considerable discussion on this subject, a discussion at all on the essence of perpetual use. There were arguments for a change which, as I say, resulted in a specific bill. There was no political will on the part of the governing coalition. If this were the will, many of the inhabitants today who will benefit from this law, the benefits of it, would avoid the need to pay high fees, which during these years have met them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because local governments had the right to raise fees for...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u280	...use, and now we're based on it. I have a quick question, a few...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u281	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u282	But just one question. What about the tenants who... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...are on the property of a housing cooperative... This is very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u283	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the transformations are - and this must be made clear - today absolutely possible, but sometimes, for these reasons, which have already been mentioned here, their implementation is quite complicated. Sometimes you have to force someone in court, and if you already have all the consents, then there are also local governments that conduct some kind of obstruction, and in a strange way hold on to these requests, which are dealt with for a very long time. Thus, such an idea of transformation under the law will certainly be read positively. I have two questions, Minister. Firstly, have you considered encouraging local authorities to compensate them for their possible relief so that the new conditions are not worse than those which are so far? And second question. What if such applications have already been submitted while they are waiting in the municipality for consideration? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what about the situation where...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u286	...today's terms are better than those to be adopted under this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u287	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question that seems to go a little beyond the presentation. As you know, under this law the right of perpetual use will be abolished for the owners of residential buildings who will become owners of these land. But what about the properties for which the perpetual use of the State Treasury is intended for housing purposes? I understand that, at the time of the transaction, property rights should already be acquired from the vending machine, not just the perpetual use right purchased. There is nothing in this submission, but I understand that the intention is that we end up with permanent use for housing purposes. This problem needs to be resolved in my opinion, Minister. Question to the Ministry: Will there be any initiative in this regard? The point is, it's not like there's still gonna be a bunch of people in 20 years who are gonna have that status. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u289	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u290	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. One question is whether you give enough to local governments, I would even say full flexibility in the application of discounts, their deadlines, amounts, amounts or percentages. The point is that in a city like Warsaw or, I suppose, also in other cities, these perpetual usage fees are extremely diverse, even in relation to the same properties. These fees were updated on different dates, this update is only gradually implemented. Some updates of the reliefs are contested, there are cases in the courts. So in order for the local government to apply some relief, it needs to have full flexibility so that it is fairly fairly resolved within the local government. Second question. Do you think about introducing a modern property tax, the value of real estate, so-called. Cadastrus, when will the fees for perpetual use disappear? Poland is one of the last countries in which there is no such tax, and that would be in a rational economy [[♪ The bell ♪]] Real estate is really needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u291	Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u292	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I do not know whether you have pointed out that it was finally possible to hear here from the Minister's mouth that something such as the home budget is very important. We're talking about how important these things are. The aim of this law is to improve citizens' home budgets. It's very bad, it's so bad, I think, the narrative that we heard here from the opposition state, because politics comes into this... Again, it would have to be said: You had eight years to bring something like this in, and you didn't, so to speak about the fact that we are in a hurry with this bill, because elections are coming up, is a narrative that can only arise in your heads. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Minister. I mean these garages, these additional elements that are part of the building. Does the Ministry continue to work on such solutions so that other facilities can also be included in this basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u293	Thank you very much. The Minister wants to speak? Minister, we are trying to make it before the votes, so please answer briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions... Thank you, of course, for this discussion, and I welcome this declaration of individual clubs. I do not know how Mrs Chmiel got 6 billion PLN, I really do not know that. [[Up to six.]] I'm sure that's the amount of revenue, the budget revenue for... [[I'll show you everything.]] ...the Treasury's land is gone. [[I said 1 billion.]] Good. You said 6 billion. Whoever's got the land, he's got the property. I thank Mr Maciejewski very much for these words. I would also like to assure the President and Mr Owl that we are prepared for this operation. We have PLN 130 million each year for courts, for eternal books. Really not only from the point of view of this operation, in which 2.5 million perpetual users will become owners, because it is one thing, but it will be good at all, as we will strengthen the courts and perpetual books in courts, for economic turnover forever. We'll have this case solved as well. We're not working on a cadastral tax. That's what I'm trying to say. Self-governments give a bonus as high as they decide. I just want to say, Mr. Marshal, that our political environment, Law and Justice, will encourage these discounts to be attractive to the people of Poland. This is, I think, the difference between us - the Member cares more about the budgets of local governments, we care about the budgets of Poles. It's all in this bill that we agree, so I don't see the slightest reason to tear up the robe here. Are we going to do a system solution? Yeah, about that in a minute. On the other hand, I would like to address Mr Kotowski - of course, that in the following years you will be able to benefit from discounts in the case of State Treasury land, only we have written down this mechanism so that in the following years they will be less than 10% each year. Moreover, if someone does not lift a finger and does not leave the house, he will also be the owner, as these annual fee payments will end after 20 instalments. I don't know what the question about the 2020 budget is. We don't have to compensate for any revenue, because local governments won't lose any revenue. I understand we could talk about the budget of 2040. If we are talking about other services, then of course the rates are different. This is going to be part of the system solution I'm announcing. As I said, we need to have here, firstly, an agreement on state aid, changes to the Civil Code, a number of solutions that need to be made in order to achieve a systemic solution. Then it'll cover the garages too. On the other hand, today, as regards the garages and - I answer here the question of the Member - any accompanying infrastructure will be transformed into property rights in a situation where their dominant function, as enshrined in the definition of this law, is the residential function, i.e. if this garage is in residential housing, it will be owned today, if it is a separate building, it will still be perpetual use. There is no - this is the answer to the questions of Mr Lisiecki and Mr Święcicki - any limitation on the amount of the discounts. These increases can reach up to 99%. Mrs Masłowska - I am here confirming what Mrs Masłowska said, and I thank her for having always spoken on this issue. Today it is the result of these works. I answer her question: it is the housing cooperative that will transform in the situation you were talking about, it will be the owner, and the lease will function exactly as it is right now. Encouragement for self-governments - it seems to me that a sufficient incentive for self-governments is that the citizens of the city are satisfied with the local government. We will certainly convince Poles that good local government influences their lives. This project is this offer, another by which we show Poles that good power has a good influence on the direct life of every Polish family. There will be no possibility, Mr Owl, of establishing a new perpetual use under this law, apart from the KZN Act. I answered all the questions. I hope I did it well. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u295	Thank you. [[I wanted a corrigendum. The Minister's office.]] [[Voice from the room: There was a name mentioned.]] [[This is a matter of clarification.]] One minute to corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u296	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I think you heard wrong. I made it clear that in 2017 about PLN 1 billion was received by the State Treasury for the use of perpetual land. These are data from the Ministry of Finance. Where did my calculations come from? If you multiply that times 20 and you calculate the bonus, it's even more than six, and I was just thinking, and I'm guessing it's going to be about 60%. I said about six. [[And that's the correct correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u297	Thank you, Member. State Secretary at the Ministry of Investment and Development Mr Artur Soboń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u298	Absolutely one sentence. We have 2,400 grand. perpetual users, of which only 400,000. on the territory of the State Treasury, therefore these calculations are completely false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u299	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is another set of solutions which are important for the functioning of local government units. These rules may have a significant impact on the financial independence of municipalities, which was reported by local authorities at the stage of the public consultation. What are the government's data on the impact of the entry into force of the contested law on the financial condition of the municipalities? Will the revenue from the conversion fee allow the difference resulting from the loss of revenue from annual user charges to be fully offset?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u301	What do we mean by a multi-family residential building? Art. 1 paragraph Point 2 2 laws. Are these also multi-family multi-housing buildings, where there are several dwellings? In the case of a multi-family building, must there be separate dwellings or must they have a self-certification issued by the President or an old lady? What's the definition of a multi-family residential building? Will this law also apply to companies (owners of buildings) whose resources are buildings with residential premises (which do not yet have separate ownership of individual premises)? How this Act will affect the possibility of converting the right of perpetual use into property if the residential building is located partly on the plot (ground) of perpetual use, and partly on a plot owned by the company - so-called. Unregulated legal status of real estate? Will the law also apply to this part of the plot, which is in perpetual use, if only the part of the building with land is given in perpetual use? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u302	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights, print No. 2673. The introduction of new rules on the law of perpetual use is due to the need to regulate the law, the need to strengthen the rights of property guaranteed by the Constitution and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the state. For many years, users of perpetual land built in multi-storey buildings have directed to both parliamentarians and government authorities numerous complaints and conclusions pointing to difficulties in the ownership of property rights due to different property rights. In particular, a group of public land users encountered serious problems in the conversion of the land right, since the consent of all owners of premises who have shares in the right of perpetual land use is necessary for the conversion. The aim of the bill is to eliminate in the future problems arising from the exercise and conversion of rights on such land, which will increase the certainty of civil traffic. The draft law contains provisions convenient for landowners, which instead of annual perpetual use charges introduce conversion fees for a period of 20 years from the date of conversion. Their amount will be set at the level of annual fees for perpetual use with the benefit of not more than once every 3 years. In addition, landowners will be given the opportunity to pay fees once for 20 years - so-called. the total fee. Annual conversion fees for natural persons who own single-family buildings or apartments in multi-house buildings or housing cooperatives are also provided for. This gives certain advantages to owners of premises in multi-site buildings in the form of predictability of the conversion fee, which will replace the variable and the most frequently rapidly increasing perpetual use charge. The existing rules setting the standard for the protection of property rights were not uniform in nature, primarily due to their location in the basic law and the laws. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly dealt with interpreting difficulties in resolving legal problems at the interface between the right of perpetual use and the right of ownership. The bill has a systemic dimension. The acquisition of ownership by a legally defined housing group will enhance legal certainty and property stability of owners of single-family homes and premises located in multi-house buildings. With the property of the house or premises from the date of entry into force of the Act will be associated with land ownership, which in the consciousness of 2.5 million inhabitants strengthens the right to housing and reduces the risk of an unjustified increase in annual charges for the use of perpetual land. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u303	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into land ownership rights, contained in print No 2673, to the Committee on Infrastructure and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forest tax (print No 2668). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Tadeusz Skobl to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u304	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law prepared by the government on the amendment of the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forestry tax. The proposed amendment aims to organise and harmonise the country-wide rules for taxation of land through which the linear infrastructure for the transmission or distribution of liquids, steam, gases or electricity and telecommunications infrastructure is carried out. The project introduced the principle that the establishment of this infrastructure on the land of third parties from which a linear company uses it in a limited way would not affect the increase in the level of taxes. Until now, there have been no rules directly governing the principle of taxation of these land. Therefore, in neighbouring municipalities, the same land could be taxed at a different tax rate depending on the interpretation of the law adopted by the municipality. In some municipalities, the tax authorities treated the position of linear infrastructure as tax-neutral, while in other municipalities the land through which the infrastructure was carried out was considered to be occupied for business purposes, which involves the highest rate of real estate tax. This situation leads to numerous disputes between taxpayers, liner infrastructure owners and tax authorities. In recent years, this problem has been particularly evident in the case of land on the Board of State Forests on which electricity lines are located. In the last year, the tax authorities began to classify land under electricity lines in the State Forests as land occupied for business activities and not as forest land so far. According to the Ministry of Energy data, in 2017 no more than 5% Land under electricity lines in the State Forests was taxed at the highest rate of real estate tax, while in 2018 this rate may already apply to more than 40% land under the lines. The forest tax rate is around 0,5 gr/m2, while the property tax for the land on which the economic activity is carried out is 91 gr/m2, so that due to the change in the classification of the land due to the tax increases significantly. The cost of the tax will be passed on to an energy company which may include this expenditure in the tariff for the distribution service. In the whole country, in most cases the position of electricity lines on third party land did not affect and still does not change the classification of these land for tax purposes and does not result in the taxation of these land at the highest rate of real estate tax. However, there is a risk that the change in land classification will extend in the future to other forest land and agricultural land. In view of the arguments accepted by the tax authorities, the change in the classification of land may also begin in the case of land through which other linear infrastructure is carried out, e.g. Gas, heating or telecommunications. When changing the classification, no account shall be taken of the specificity of the use of land by the owners of linear devices. Linear companies use this land only to a limited extent, corresponding to transmission service. The owner of the property may normally continue to use the land for basic purposes. Forest activities may still be carried out on land under electricity lines in forests, e.g. in the form of tree plantations, while agricultural crops may be cultivated on agricultural land. Therefore, this land should not be taxed in the same way as the land occupied by a typical cubic undertaking. Nor is the objective of undertakings with linear infrastructure mentioned in the Act on the provision of services of general interest taken into account. It should be stressed that the change in the way land is taxed through linear infrastructure would lead to an increase in the prices of services provided by companies using this infrastructure. The Ministry of Energy estimates that about PLN 7 per month for the average household could increase the electricity distribution charge if all land under electricity lines were taxed at the highest rate of real estate tax. Gas, water, waste water and telecommunications services could also increase. Ground tax increases would certainly have a positive impact on the budgets of municipalities with a large number of electricity lines or other linear infrastructure, but this would have been at the expense of all electricity consumers and other media, including those of less prosperous municipalities. This would increase the diversity of the development of the different regions of the country depending on the density of infrastructure. The introduction of clear rules for the taxation of land through which linear infrastructure runs is also very important for taxable persons on the ground. As a result of this amendment, land owners or users will not be obliged to pay a higher tax solely because their land is driven by linear infrastructure facilities. The calculation of the highest tax rate appropriate to land occupied for economic activity would in particular be detrimental to owners of forest, agricultural or non-use land. It would lead to a situation where the owner himself does not carry out business activities or benefits from the establishment of a linear infrastructure and is obliged to pay a multiple higher tax on land. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am convinced that the entry into force of the draft law is necessary. The social and economic effects of possible increases in media prices for citizens and tax increases for landowners with linear infrastructure would be higher than the potential benefits for municipalities. I therefore request a positive assessment of this law and its adoption in the form proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u305	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Noblecht, the Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. There isn't. Then Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u306	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It would be difficult not to support this bill because it arranges certain things that are interpreted differently in different cities. However, we also need to consider what the Minister has noticed. Why, for 34 years, since the agricultural tax law was established, was there a law on local taxes and local taxes for 22 years, and for 16 years the law on forestry tax was not a problem? You say 5%. The owners had problems with this bill, and now we're talking 40%. It's on the mouth that it's just that lately the officials, the officials of the IRS, who look at, x-ray, and look through the microscopes at the hands of local government officials, forced such action. 'Cause the uncle who's under the pressure of a tax officer is looking for a safety net if he accidentally missed out on something that might be an extra tax. And this guy's going to court. What's the court supposed to do? Well, he's probably afraid he's in the business... that he doesn't make a decision in the interest of public authority, not another one. Hence the problem that needs to be solved. We will support this bill because this is a firefighter's action, putting out at a given moment this fire that is on fire. You just shouldn't be doing business like that. We know that investments are so called. Infrastructural, linear areas occupy a very large area of the country, even though they are narrow in the belt. But there is also a limitation of access to the area by necessary inspection, inspection, repair of transmission and distribution lines. For this good, this service is used by all citizens, so it should be arranged in such a way that there are no problems, so that one owner is treated completely differently from all others. This needs to be sorted out. Only, Minister, for 3 years I also hoped that the government would present for discussion, for consultation a project going further, about the so-called. linear investments. Because here we are dealing with a law that cleans up existing infrastructure facilities. And how many problems are there in planning lines that secure state security, continuity of electricity supply, gas supply, liquid fuels? This law is necessary and if the government were to take the problems seriously and not act ad hoc, putting out what is now on fire, we would have time to discuss without an election campaign, without the emotion of a political bill that was already being prepared. Let me remind some interested parties that there were two options that we could reach our goal. I urge the Minister to work in the Ministry on this comprehensive law on agricultural investments, on linear investments. We will be very happy to cooperate in consultations, proposals and solutions in ordering this matter. The law applies to three sectors. Each of them just has its own problems. We as the Civic Platform will support this project. We'll have a number of questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u307	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now take the floor. [[But there were 30 more seconds.]] But you thanked me, sir. [[But I don't blame you.]] There's no envoy. In that case, please speak to Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The ambiguity of any legislation on which companies or local governments work is not good for citizens or for the economy. The fact is, it is strange that these problems have arisen in the last few years and that the municipalities have started to classify such investments very differently and therefore also the rates charged to them. This is strange, but I understand that actually under the pressure of activity, among others. The tax authorities prefer to charge sometimes a higher rate, but not to be held liable for failing to fulfil their own duties and not to charge an appropriate rate. Unfortunately, this shows where the country's overly rigorous approach leads, among others. to local governments. On the other hand, the fact that it should not be so that in two neighbouring municipalities, and even in two municipalities at two different ends of the country, different taxes are levied on the same or similar investment located on a similar kind of plot of land, and we know that these taxes - whether forest, whether agricultural or real estate - can differ from each other, because if the forest tax rate is PLN 0.0043 per 1 m2, then in the case of property tax it is 0.91, and it completely changes the face and cost of such investment. In fact, an investor, when planning any investment, cannot be based on one business plan, and then it turns out that completely different costs are systematically charged to the investor from the operation of the site. And this really ultimately affects the volatility of prices for citizens, because most of the services that this change is going to affect... Service providers, really. After all, they are service providers who provide services to Jan Kowalski. So that ensuring the financial stability of companies involved in the transport of liquid fuels, whether heat or energy, is simply necessary from the point of view that this results in the stability of the functioning of the local authorities to which these taxes ultimately reach and, of course, also of the people who are the final recipients of the services concerned. It's just plain Kowalski. Because if XYZ has higher transmission costs e.g. heat, it's just that ultimately they are added to the cost of warming buildings. In the economy nothing is lost, each fee is most often paid by the citizen. Therefore, the Modern will actually support further work on this project in committee and, of course, at a later stage we will have more detailed questions for the Minister, so as to refine the project, which will actually not only be a burden on the courts, because some inconsistencies in interpretation usually end in court proceedings, but also at the same time will be clear and ultimately resolve all problems concerning differences in interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u309	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats on the draft law amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forest tax, I signal at the outset that we will support this project in further proceding. This is a project that, in our view, really harmonises the issue of agricultural tax on equipment that is located on land and which serves the inhabitants in terms of interpretation. It is primarily about equipment for energy, electricity, natural gas or heat transmission, but also for telecommunications. In a state that is legally efficient, it should not be so that different institutions, in this case local governments, have a different opinion and charge different tax rates on the same issue. The Act clearly states that if the device is located on non-owned land of the one who transmits this energy or who owns such a device, then he will not pay that tax. This seems right, as business is not being carried out here. At the same time, if this device is located on the ground which is the property of such an undertaking - which is also understandable - such a tax should be charged. It is a good thing that such a project has been presented, because in particular in the last few years we actually have a problem with the interpretation of taxing. But, indeed, this project - in my opinion, but one of the previous Members also spoke about it - does not directly regulate all the issues that are related to the establishment of such a device. We are not just talking about new investments here, but we are also talking about investments made in previous years. Very often the standing pillar or gas equipment used for further gas pressing is on the ground of a farmer, on the ground of an entrepreneur and not only hinders him from carrying out rational business activities, but also introduces a number of restrictions on the investment of the owner of such land, because under the energy line, on the gas line or on the gas line there are no different types of investments. This is, of course, linked to restrictions on economic activity on such grounds, but it also involves purely economic losses, because under such devices or over such devices. agricultural activities cannot be carried out freely. It would therefore be worth considering whether the next revision of this case should not be regulated. Recently, in recent years there have been a lot of controversy, social resistance - and rightly so. the specifics to enable the investor to carry out strategic tasks. I am talking not only about road investments, but also about the construction of new energy lines, where without the consent of the owner, without his opinion - whether it is himself or the office that represents him, e.g. municipal office - such investments are carried out. Last we heard about it, it sounded very strongly in the case of another specialty and another idea, which is the construction of the Central Communication Port. In the Baranów there was a referendum on this issue and it is hardly surprising that the inhabitants, landowners, have spoken almost unanimously against it because it significantly worsens the conditions of their operation. For many of them, this means moving to another place, in their opinion not necessarily for equivalent compensation, and no one needs to be persuaded - and this was also mentioned in the previous debate today - that sacred property rights are being violated in this case. There is nothing worse than sending someone who has lived on it for generations and created a number of values there and his family. To conclude, Minister, High Izbo, because this project regulates many issues despite the reservations I mentioned earlier, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u311	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This particular solution is of course beneficial, because it improves or explains to some extent the situation of taxpayers, while this is pure casuistics. Let's keep in mind that this is a patch. on the patch on the next patch. The Polish tax system requires a general reconstruction, or actually delete it and build it again. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Polish tax system is probably the only area of law, which is state law, i.e. such as in the Middle Ages - a completely different state of taxation is the peasant state, a completely different state of the clergy and completely different all the rest, especially entrepreneurs. Pure state law, as in the Middle Ages. This is not enough, after all, we have a main tax in Poland. Not many people remember that. It would seem like an anachronistic solution, too. We have a major tax. Each entrepreneur must pay a main tax every month in the form of Social Security contributions of ZUS in the same amount. It's a classic head tax. Why am I talking about all this? I'm talking about it because let's be aware that this kind of solution is definitely not gonna do the trick. I bet there will be new interpretations, interpretations of what is the ground for economic purposes. In addition, the Act refers to linear infrastructure, and what about other infrastructure, etc., etc.? And that's one problem. And the second problem is that it's like a bad philosophy that runs through this whole bill, because it's thought that we need to reunite local taxes. On the contrary, local authorities should compete with each other in tax systems. That's supposed to be the philosophy. In some municipalities or in some local areas, these taxes will be better, in others worse, in some more beneficial for entrepreneurs, in others less. And it will be a healthy tax competition that will actually improve the tax system in its entirety. And this is where we should go. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u313	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, the Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forest tax. The need to amend these laws is due to the need to clarify the subject matter of taxation and the way in which it is classified. According to the project, the establishment of infrastructure for the transfer or distribution of liquids, steam, gases or electricity and telecommunications infrastructure on non-business land, including that infrastructure, does not change the way in which these land is taxed. In the absence of clear rules on the way the land is taxed, there is often a discrepancy in their application by the tax authorities, i.e. by the governor, the mayor, the president of the city in this case. As a result, there is a difference in taxation of these land depending on their location. In recent years, there has been a negative legal line of administrative courts that land on which the infrastructure is situated should be taxed on property tax of the amount provided for the land occupied for business activity. On the basis of these rulings, the tax authorities accept that the mere fact that they have this infrastructure is a sufficient condition for the classification of land as occupied for business activity. Such an interpretation results in taxpayers, i.e. property owners, although they do not carry out business activities and do not profit from it, being obliged to pay a higher tax only by the mere fact that they agreed to make the land available for transmission purposes. The proposed amendments to the laws are intended to eliminate doubts in doctrine and case law. The intention of statutory amendments is to introduce the principle that the location on the land of third parties of the transmission infrastructure from which the undertaking which owns the infrastructure uses it in a limited manner does not result in a change in the tax treatment of those land. Where economic activities are carried out on these land in addition to the installed infrastructure, the highest rate of real estate tax will be charged on these land on existing terms. The second objective of the regulation is to prevent an increase in the financial burden on entrepreneurs with linear infrastructure. The proposal for legislative amendments is in line with the principle of universality of taxation and the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and is not contrary to European Union law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed legislative changes and proposes that this bill be referred to the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u315	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u316	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government Legislation Centre assessed that the draft of this law raises doubts as to the compatibility with the constitution, among others. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, according to which local government units are provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. This project reduces the revenue of local governments without reducing their tasks at the same time. Moreover, in the impact assessment, the legislator presented the benefits that energy companies would enjoy as a result of the changes introduced by the Act, but completely ignored the financial consequences of these changes for local government units; the effects were estimated at 0 PLN. Questions. Does the Minister agree with this assessment of the RCL? Is it true that the effects of this law will directly affect the income of local government units, leading to their reduction? What will be the financial consequences for local governments as a result of the entry into force of the law over the coming years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u317	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u318	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, it's a good thing this bill appears in the situation we're in. The question to you is, who was the one who intervened in addition to court decisions? Were they state-owned companies, or was it the citizen who owned the land? Or just the authorities that set up this tax? Have you made any other moves besides this bill? Perhaps she didn't need to be prepared. Perhaps an interpretation by the tax authorities of this tax law was needed, some intervention by the regional financial chambers which control the budgets of the municipalities. Did you make such a move, or was it just media, press information, which a month or a half ago appeared in Poland, that the courts thought there were such difficult situations? I'd like to hear your information about that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u319	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the past 2 years, a great deal of emotions have aroused new energy investments, which have been announced, among others. one of them was the construction of a new 400 kV line, which was to connect a new block at the Kozienice power plant with the Warsaw agglomeration, defined as the Kozienice-Ołtarzew line. It was supposed to run through several counties: Kozienicki county, Grójecki district, gyrardowski district and Piaseczyński district. The location of this line aroused a lot of controversy, there were a lot of social protests, especially those on whose sites the energy poles were to be located, over which this line was to run, or finally those who were either in the immediate vicinity. I wanted to ask, therefore, by using the Minister's presence: What is happening to this investment at this moment, at what stage is it at? What about the bill where she's registered? Is this investment expected in the near future? If so, at what time, if not, was it deleted? Will the bill be amended, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which one is it written in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u321	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I ask the Undersecretary of State at Tadeusz Skobl's Ministry of Energy to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm looking at those questions that have been asked. Mr Bańkowski: a reduction in the income of the municipalities, an incomprehensible explanation and discrepancies between the RCL. Such doubts were, the discussion which preceded the referral of this law to the place where we are at the moment, caused that look, optics was as follows. We look at the decline in the income of the municipalities in this way: not as hypothetical income of the municipalities, which could appear, but actually of those that actually took place. A number of court judgments. The question was that it was not enough for many years, Mr Czerwiński said that it was possible to live with it. It actually did, until they came along... [[Checks.]] ...judgments of the court indicating that benefits can be derived from this. That's life, that was 4% in one year. In the next one, this information travels fast, there's 40%. What we're discussing today... We look at it in such a way that the wave of these judgments, this approach to the matter will be spilled. There's time to put that dam down today. For this reason, we are sending this project to you. There was also a question about the 400 kV line of Altars. She is not the responsibility of the Minister of Energy because these are Polish Power Grids. We'll try to get an answer to that question from the owner, because this line doesn't exactly come under the Ministry of Energy. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u323	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u324	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the agricultural tax law, the law on local taxes and charges and the law on forest tax. Many agricultural tax payers received decisions from municipalities some time ago, which show that they are obliged to pay property tax on land on which they are located, for example. energy poles owned by electricity transmission undertakings at the rates set for economic operators. There is no doubt that the farmer on whose land the transmission facilities are located does not carry out economic activities in this respect, but due to the imprecise provisions, this issue had to be clarified clearly. The purpose of the proposed legislation is clear, and I will allow myself to raise another dragonfly problem that all those who have transmission networks on their land are keenly interested in. This is a matter of fair, fair compensation for land owners. Currently we have a problem with the construction of high voltage lines in Poland, because residents often disagree with their location. As an example, there are problems related to the construction of a high voltage line between Lublin and Chełm, where residents do not agree that the line runs near their homes. There are also protests regarding the location of the network on the route bydgoszcz west - Piła Krzewina. Our transmission system requires many new investments and modernisation of existing infrastructure. First of all, modern transmission lines lack the highest voltages and power stations capable of handling them. Undoubtedly, the expansion of transmission networks serves the public as a whole, improving the security and reliability of electricity supply across the country. However, these very important investments must not be made at the expense of the people who are unhappy that their homes are in the places where the network is designated. Very often inhabitants view the location of transmission networks on their land as a burden, an injury. This feeling is often justified because the lifting of the burden of such lines on its ground is not properly compensated. I think that a good example should be solutions for us to build windmills across our western border. In both Poland and Germany, windmills are not devices that everyone would like to have near their home. Until recently in Poland we had many protests related to the location of windmills. In Germany, no one is particularly fond of windmills either, but every German - not only the one on which the windmill is located, but also the one whose properties are at a certain distance from the windmill - is properly rewarded for putting up with such nuisance. I am convinced that the problem of protests in our country could also be resolved if the decision-makers showed a minimum of openness, understanding and goodwill. I would particularly like to draw attention to the controversial issue of the investment location already mentioned by me on the Bydgoszcz - Piła route. The inhabitants reiterate numerous appeals, which in their opinion are unfortunately ignored, and they are protesting, to which the police are already involved at the moment. Meanwhile, the demands are very simple to meet. First of all, the priority is: transparent and independent preparation of each investment, early information of landowners about their real estate purposes, compensation of the value of the investment and the profit generated by it, and objective control of the implementation of the project and its contractor. In conclusion, on behalf of myself and thousands of citizens, I would like to ask the Minister to bow down to the problems I have raised about fair compensation for the location of energy investments on the ground of citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u325	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on agricultural tax, the Act on local taxes and charges and the Forest Tax Act, contained in print No. 2668, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 17. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 28 hrs 17 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2717. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible has submitted an additional report on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the State Treasury's income in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties, printing No 2604-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including a vote on this draft resolution. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Property Act of the premises, - amending the Trade Union Act and certain other laws, - about the management of the successful enterprise of a natural person, - on trust services and electronic identification services and certain other laws. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2690, 2695, 2694, 2691 and 2715. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on road transport and certain other laws, - about the tachographs. The reports shall include prints Nos 2704 and 2703 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the case of the committee's reports contained in the texts 2690, 2695, 2694, 2691 and 2715 agreed to the application of the Rule. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Now, please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u326	Message. The Marshal of the Sejm invites you tomorrow, i.e. July 6th, 6:00 p.m. 14 for the grand opening in the Royal Castle of the exhibition entitled: The 550th anniversary of Parliamentaryism of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u327	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information from the Council of Ministers on the social consequences of the implementation of the Act of 16 December 2016 amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guards, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families - notified by the Polish People's Party's Association - European Democrats' Union, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the reasons for the dissolution of the investigative team investigating the car accident of 10 February 2017 in Oświęcim, which affected Prime Minister Beata Szydło - reported by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We're good to go, right? We proceed with the vote on the request for information on the retirement provision of the officers. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: Information from the Council of Ministers on the social consequences of the implementation of the Act of 16 December 2016 amending the Act on pension provision for officials of the institutions I mentioned earlier, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 199, against 230, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information on the car accident in Oświęcim. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point including the presentation of this information, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. One Member abstained in the vote 193 against - 235. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on special solutions for the municipality of Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. The additional report shall be in print No 2666-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u328	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Joint committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy on 4 July this year. they considered amendments tabled at second reading to the Act on Special Solutions for the Municipality of Ostrowice in Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. The committees recommend that Amendment 1 be accepted and that Amendment 2 be rejected. The High Sejm is ready to adopt the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u329	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that this is about the 2666 Print Act. Let me remind you that the committees are asking for this project to be adopted. In the additional report, the committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Eighty-seven. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 427, 1 against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 27 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. If there is really an excellent financial situation of the state budget, which is said to be the best for 30 years, if we can afford a lot of things then I have a request to Members of the Law and Justice, and especially to parliamentarians from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, to the ministers of Brudziński and Chiefnernaker, to help the residents of Drawska Pomorskie and Złocieniec, to help those poor communities who take responsibility... [[Voice from the room: Heart on hand.]] The heart is not enough, Minister. All it takes is 1300 grand. PLN for 5 years for the municipalities of Złocieniec, Ostrowice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Listen to the sovereign, listen to the Poles, listen to the inhabitants of poor communities who take responsibility, combining the communes, taking the entire legacy of Ostrowice. Please support this amendment. She needs these poor people in these poor communities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We help, with the heart.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u331	The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u332	Mr. Speaker! I was convinced you wouldn't come up with that question because you have to be a very special hypocrite... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...to ask such questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to remind you that the first request of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship to appoint a commissioning board in a failing municipality was in 2010, another one in 2015. [[Voice from the room: But that's not the question.]] During that time, you were in charge of Poland. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: That is not the question.]] Attention, because maybe you don't all know. The uncle who allowed 50 million dollars in debt... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] ...that's 500%. the budget of this municipality, where did it start in 2010? From the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You had a governor, a mayor, a voivode, a minister... [[Voice from the room: But answer the question.]] ...the Prime Minister and this board have not been appointed. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[Voice from the hall: And the parabanks.]] To answer the question: ladies and gentlemen, 5% the write-off from PIT is legally due to these municipalities... [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] ...which they voluntarily join together. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice, after years in which you have not solved this problem, takes on commitments, 50 million PLN, so that the inhabitants of Ostrowice and the Draw County can continue to live without debt, without the burden of this debt... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...so they can finally normally live - after years when the Civic Platform government has not solved this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u333	But, sir, this is not... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: corrected!]] [[But does he have the right or does he not have the right?]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was no question. There was a speech by Mr Hok. [[Voice from the room: But there was a speech.]] [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] A Minister as a representative of the Government in accordance with Article. 186... [[Voice from the hall: But he has already said his.]] ...has the right to speak at any time he asks. [[A voice from the hall: But he - after the question of the messenger.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: There was a name used, Mr. Marshal.]] It's okay that the name was used. [[But he referred to the Member's statement. The corrigendum should be corrected.]] The corrigendum, I remind you... [[Celebrate this holiday on Saturday, the kind of parliamentaryism you represent.]] ...which means:...to file a formal application or to correct a misunderstood or inaccurate statement made by the speaker. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: And why do you need it, Mark, was it?]] Quote the statement of the speaker, quote. [[That's exactly what happened.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 232, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, is present before the vote on the whole question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to remind Minister Chefner to ask him something. The Minister said that for 8 or 10 years, the Civic Platform was ruled, which led to such a state of debt. If I recall correctly, when your Commissioner entered the Ostrowice Municipal Office, it was the last year that 10 million zlotys of debt arrived during the time of this Commissioner. Tell me how much debt has come to Ostrowice in your day, because it's not true what you say. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u335	Thank you. Mr Mark Hok, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, for two years there were two government commissioners who only increased the debt by PLN 11 million during this year. If they'd gotten to the job sooner, I'm sure that wouldn't have been a debt. That's one thing. [[Interest on parabanks.]] Before the election, you went to Ostrowice. You promised to save Ostrowice. That's how you saved the commune's life. It was divided into two small parts, allocated to a very poor community. [[Voice from the room: Is that bad?]] Today we are talking about a small sum of 1300 thousand so that funds can be enforced for the functioning of these poor municipalities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u337	The Deputy Minister of the Interior, Paweł Chezernaker, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u338	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd be happy to answer that question. That debt you're talking about was owed to the Citizen's Platform governor who made these commitments in parabanks. [[Parabanks.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] They've been growing avalanchely for the last two years. And the government commissioner... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie anymore.]] You haven't been able to appoint a government commissioner there in five years. Prime Minister Szydło became Prime Minister in November. In January, i.e. After two months, she appointed a commissioner. [[It's been three years.]] And note: Commissioners did not commit to parabanks, as they did to the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u339	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print 2666, along with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 421, 7 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on special solutions concerning the municipality of Ostrowice in the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship. [[Voice from the room: Another success of the MSWiA.]] [[Good vote, good vote.]] We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury about the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on the system of monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2537-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Krajewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u340	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Commission for Energy and Treasury, I present an additional report on the government draft law amending the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System and the Act on National Tax Administration, print No 2377. At its meeting on 3 July 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 2537 to the Commission for Energy and Treasury to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Energy and Treasury Commission at its meeting on 3 July 2018 after considering the amendments tabled recommends that the High House adopt three amendments, i.e. Amendments 1, 4 and 5, and the vote on them together. The Commission proposes that amendments 2 and 3 be rejected. The Commission recommends adopting the draft law in its entirety. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u341	Thank you, sir. I'm reminding you, it's print number 2537. We are voting first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] After this point, a formal conclusion. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the monitoring and control system for the quality of fuels. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) The applicant shall propose to supplement the definition of solid fuels in point 4a. Amendments 4 and 5 align with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question is asked by Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u342	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that brown coal, which is qualitatively much worse than hard coal and has five times higher emissions of dust during combustion, seven times higher emissions of aromatic hydrocarbons and three times higher emissions of benzopyrene, until these amendments were tabled by the PiS club was excluded as fuel for combustion in the municipal and indigenous sector? Is it true, as Minister Tobiszowski argued, that this amendment, these amendments, were tabled and prepared for the Coal Mine of Sieniaw? Does the Treasury have a stake in this mine? Has the Ministry estimated what volume of lignite will be consumed in households on the basis of these amendments by 1 June 2020? How will the provisions of this law, which allow these amendments to burn brown coal in households, be subject to adopted anti-smog resolutions prohibiting the burning of this coal by a large part of the voivodship seymists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u343	Thank you. We're going to vote because the Minister... [[Voice from the room: Answer.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no question.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1, 4 and 5, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 270 against - 129, with 33 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Voice from the room: There was no question.]] In the second amendment to the article. Article 3a (3) (a) 2 applicants propose that the requirements referred to in that provision be laid down by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for Energy in agreement with the Minister responsible for Environment and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 3. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment. It is difficult to imagine that, with frequent disputes between the Minister of Energy and the Minister of the Environment, who is responsible for clean air under the Law on Departments, such a regulation should be issued only by the Minister of Energy. It is hard to imagine that the Minister for Energy should issue this regulation without the Minister for the Economy, who defined the parameters of the boilers. I therefore ask you to accept this amendment, which we have tabled, so that this regulation is issued in agreement with the Minister for the Environment and with the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Besides, I believe that this is a key element and that this is also the response to the expectation of environments that have done a great deal to make legislative changes, including the introduction of regulation on fuel quality. And one more question, Minister: When will the regulation come into force? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u345	Thank you. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The regulation will enter into force as soon as the law has passed, because we have examined this law by presenting three regulations - fuel quality, control and parameterization of fuel quality. On the other hand, why do we propose not to accept this amendment? Because in the article. Article 3a (3) (a) 2a it is stated that the Minister responsible for Energy, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the Environment and the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, shall review the quality requirements laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to paragraph at least every 2 years. 2 to assess the impact of their use on the environment, human health and the interests of consumers and that the results of this review provide the basis for the revision of these requirements. So we have this included in our bill, hence we propose not to accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[30 seconds, Marshal. I was misunderstood.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no discussion.]] [[You're welcome. This is an important thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u347	So in corrigendum mode. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u348	Minister, with all due respect, you have made a perfectly good provision on how you're going to proceed with your evaluation. If that's what you're doing in agreement with the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Economic Affairs, then why don't you want to work together on the regulation? [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]] After all, it is a regulation that is crucial in this matter. Why do you want to do this alone? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u349	Okay, then we'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 171, against 256, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The formal proposal is submitted by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. But according to the rules of procedure, sir. The regulations say the marshal will first read the application in writing and then... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...will determine whether the application is a formal application. [[But there's no telling how long it's gonna take for the marshal.]] There you go. This is a formal conclusion as much as possible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yaakov Nagel, one of the advisors to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said that the Polish government had withdrawn from the provisions of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance with its tail. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] We changed the law without giving them anything in return," said Nagel in The Times of Israel. It turns out, High Izbo, that getting up from your knees ends with a tail hug. [[Applause]] This announcement shows that Poland has suffered enormous humiliation in the international arena, but also in the eyes of all its compatriots. That is why I am asking your marshal for a break so that the Prime Minister can refer to this scandalous statement so that we do not have to think that we have a government and a prime minister with a tail on his tail. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u351	This is a formal request for a break, so I will put this request to the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 195, against 233, with three abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment to the article. Article 3a (3) (a) 2 applicants propose that the requirements referred to in that provision be determined by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for Energy in agreement with the Minister responsible for the environment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 3, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 175 votes against - 253. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u352	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Since 2016, the price of 1 t of domestic heating coal for average Kowalski has increased by 25%. This law affects 5.5 million households. The price of heating will rise. Meanwhile, we are flooded with imported coal. We have a record volume for 2017, over 13 million tons, including 9 million tons from Russia. And it's not cheap coal. I have a question, Minister, what proposals the Law and Justice Government has for 5.5 million households to compensate for the increase in heating costs and to minimise the energy poverty that is rising in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u353	Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u354	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to remind you that the decisions of six Marshals of each voivodeship last year have preceded our decisions in the Fuel Quality Act, which caused the price increase process to start last year. So our statutory decision doesn't make any qualitative changes here, and it does, indeed, make it clear across the country. On the other hand, the Clean Air programme, which was prepared by the National Environmental Fund and which supports thermomodernisation, supports the change of heating, among others. on ecological, it is one of those elements, within which several tens of billions over a period of 10 years are in a system program for this, correlating with this law, which introduces to us the quality of fuels and for the first time shows what fuels can be traded on the Polish market. This definitely improves the situation with regard to clean air. We also have this law notified in recent weeks, so this is also a response in the negotiations with the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u355	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2537 in its entirety, along with the amendments adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 1st Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the system of monitoring and control of the quality of fuels and the Act on National Tax Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2612-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws, print No. 2549. The Sejm at its 66th meeting on 3 July 2018, in accordance with Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 2612 to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 3 July 2018, asks the High Sejm to approve the following amendments: 1 and 2. - reject, from three to seven. - adopt and adopt the draft law presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u357	Thank you. Remind me, it's printing 2612. We are voting first on the amendments set out in the additional report. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the act on combating unfair competition. In the first amendment to Article. 11 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 199 against - 231, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 233, against - 194, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose that after Article. 2 add Article. 2a-2d. Amendments 4 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd to 7th amendments, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The vote was 419, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2612, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 1st abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law on the national cybersecurity system. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2659-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Seym Commissions: National Defence and Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies recommend the adoption of a draft law on the national cyber security system with two amendments, namely amendments 10 and 11. The committees recommend rejecting the remaining ten amendments, as specified in print No 2659-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u359	Thank you. The committees in the additional report also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 15 applicants shall propose the new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking, I remind you, to reject this amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 251, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 175 votes against - 251, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 26, 33, 39, 60. (63), 66, 70, 71, 82 and 83 applicants propose that these provisions apply to the Minister responsible for IT. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u360	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since I'm guessing you have a voting order against this amendment, I'd like to ask you if you understand it correctly. In our amendment, we suggest that instead of appointing a representative, who will represent the Prime Minister and coordinate the activities between the Ministry of Digital Affairs, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, give this prerogative to the Minister responsible for digitalisation, for the IT of the country. We believe that these competences in this ministry are and this is the person who should fulfil these coordination tasks. Why invoke an additional person who will be an additional element in this deaf phone? There are situations where the appointment of representatives may be advisable. There can't be one person being president and prime minister at the same time. But in this case, that's not the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u361	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 202 voted against - 227, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 39 applicants propose to add paragraph. 10.12. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 224, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 44 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 172 voted against - 233, with 27 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 44 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5.7. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u362	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the responsibility for cybersecurity rests on the shoulders of the state, and this is because it is his duty to the sovereign, of course. One element in raising this level of security is the widely understood education of society in this area. So why do you reject our amendment to give sector-specific cybersecurity powers to carry out information campaigns or education programmes on cybersecurity? I would like to make it clear that we are talking here about powers, not obligations, but, for example, the state should take responsibility for such an important area from the point of view of achieving the objectives of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u363	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 173 votes against - 257, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 51. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 143 voted against - 288, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 55 applicants propose, among others: the new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If in relation to Article. 55 you object to the clarification, as in our amendment, of the scope of control, I have the following question: Isn't this the gateway for such activities as in 2015, when, at the request of Minister Macierewicz, Bartłomiej Misiewicz, a Bartłomiej Misiewicz, by means of a completed key, broke into or, if any, entered simply from the boot into the premises of the NATO counterintelligence center? If you reject an amendment requiring a controlling person to have a pass, you will deprive the Controller of any influence on what will happen to that person during the check. So who will take responsibility for the untrained position of the person controlling e.g. a power plant or petrochemicals, where the lack of knowledge of the safety rules in force in the facility [[♪ The bell ♪]] may lead to a loss of health...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u365	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u366	...or even to the death. I said, who's gonna take responsibility for this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Platform.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u367	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 163 votes against - 257, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 90. The committees are filing for rejection. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Now that we're talking about a law that's supposed to improve security online, it's worth asking if anyone hacked the Ministry's website. Because the bill states that a cybersecurity strategy must be established and that it will be created in 1.5 years at the latest. Meanwhile, the Ministry's website has a cybersecurity strategy for the years 2017 to 202022 adopted by the government. Is that the strategy or isn't it? Do you spend public money on documents that end up in a basket? Why do you want to adopt further strategies if Prime Minister Szydło has just signed a resolution on the adoption of a cybersecurity strategy? Is this strategy or isn't it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u369	The question is raised by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u370	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Before the Minister, because I see that he is already lurking to answer, he will tell us that this strategy is really a national framework for cybersecurity policy, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that this amendment we are proposing is very easy. We're giving you six months to prepare a cybersecurity strategy instead of, as you say, a year and a half. I would like to point out that by the end of 2015. NIK reported: Actions are carried out without preparation and without a common vision. There's one decision-making center missing. Disproportionate. Institutions don't really talk to each other. You guys needed three years to file a bill, which you're proposing that in 1.5 years, you're gonna do a strategy on. cyber threats. Everything is fine as long as the computers are working until there is, like 2 months ago, a big ePUAP failure when you can't actually use the e-government at all. That is why I urge you to vote in favour, mobilize yourself, so that the Ministry of Digitization ambitiously approaches the deadline for preparing this strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u371	Mr Karol Okoński, Deputy Minister of Digitization, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am really very surprised by the manipulation that is taking place here, the more that literally two days ago we were talking in committee and Mr Marchewka explained, asked himself, informed de facto that the strategy at some point changed its name to a national framework for cybersecurity policy for the years 2017 and 202022. Between the day before yesterday and today, I understand that the Member has suddenly changed his mind. [[The platform's lying.]] I am therefore explaining to all of you that there is no doubt that the document, which was published at this point, sets out the framework for action for 2017 and 2022 and will evolve, will be amended, adapted after a year of action of this law and implementation to the current challenges that are ahead of us. It's not like we don't have a strategy, we don't have a way of doing it, because we do. This document has a different name, but it is for procedural reasons and not for any other reason, but it is clear that we need to update it every now and then and again and again and again. The date set for next year is intended to enable us, among others. collecting experience from the implementation of this NIS Directive and implementation in Poland so as not to spend unnecessary money and not create empty documents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u373	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 196, against 230, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 93 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6a, 10a and 19a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 258 voted against - 122, with 44 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 93 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Although I wanted to comment on the previous amendment, but it's really a comment, the question about these amendments is the same. Don't you think there's not enough money to be spent on cybersecurity? Already in October 2016, the then Minister stated at a public meeting, official, open, that the dependent Ministry did not have experts, knowledge or financial resources to effectively implement the security strategy in our country. You dedicate it, you say in the previous amendment that you voted out, that the Internal Security Agency would have zero resources, and then about 300,000. to an exceptionally 9 million in 2023, which you probably won't be particularly interested in by then. Similarly, in this amendment, we are talking about the amounts of 758 thousand. zł. This really is not much to prepare and implement appropriate cybersecurity measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u375	Please. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 145, with 52 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Annex 1 to the Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles pay cashless, use credit cards. This is a non-cash spin that is the most vulnerable to cyberattacks. The national security system that the government wants to prepare today does not cover the protection of non-cash transactions. Why don't you want to protect the Poles' money? [[Applause]] Non-cash transaction security incidents are the most important. [[When the cards show up, that's what happens later.]] This amendment is currently regulating this issue. We talked about this at the subcommittee meeting, the committee. The Minister says that the KNF or the banks can handle it. The idea of the bill is to create an integrated system. The integrated should also protect the money of Poles. I wish you the money of your millionaire club to get hackers. Then you'll understand that you have to protect the citizens' money. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u377	The Minister wants to speak. Deputy Minister of Digitization Karol Okonski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna go into that kind of debate. It is clear - and I want to explain that so that you are all aware - that the payment service area is actually regulated... [[Louder!]] ...a different directive - PSD2, but specifically the act on payment services, which implements the directive in Poland, also regulates more or less the issues related to risk analysis, incident reporting, security requirements. At this point we have a second regulation, which is a reflection and implementation of the NIS Directive, in which they deliberately did not want to combine these two orders. But not because they are irrelevant, but because they did not want to duplicate the rules, create a situation where we would have conflicting rules or simply a discussion that was in force. I would therefore like to reassure you that the area of payment services is as regulated as possible at the moment, and the points that are being put here by your Member are clearly unauthorised, and the national security system for security, coordination in this area is being comprehensively approachable. As far as the payment service area is concerned, there is nothing to prevent these services from being reported to the KNF from being also later reported to the CSIRTs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u379	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 193 votes against - 234, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the whole question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u380	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill was designed in chaos and in an atmosphere of conflict between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Digitalization. Unfortunately, such chaos will remain after the introduction. I will only mention a few doubts which were raised in the public consultation and concerned issues such as the lack of precise rules for the functioning of subsidiaries of state authorities, the lack of limitation of supervisory powers of supervisory authorities and controls, the lack of publication of key implementing acts, the absence of a single incident reporting point at national level, etc. But the key question is, it's all about money as usual. The digital state must be safe, but security on the network will not be guaranteed only on paper. At the end of that year, when the 2018 budget was being prepared, the Ministry of Digital Affairs requested 76 million PLN for the implementation of cybersecurity strategies. How much did he get? 0 PLN. How, then, will they be implemented by the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] action if there's no money in the budget for it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u381	Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u382	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill we are voting on is very important and the problem we are discussing is very important. In the global cybersecurity index Poland occupies 40th place. There are taken into account legal bases, operational capacity, organisational measures, i.e. policies and procedures, qualifications, i.e. whether there are standards, whether we have staff that can implement this, and international cooperation with others. 40th place - behind countries such as the United States, Singapore, the United Kingdom, France, Canada and Russia. This may not be surprising, but we also have Greece, Estonia, Egypt and even Mauritius ahead of us. We cannot be responsible in supporting your legislation. We think that it is not ambitious enough to give too little momentum and not enough resources to defend cybersecurity. NIK's report ends with the fact that there is not enough money dedicated to it. So that I regret to say that even though there are several relevant elements in this bill, we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u383	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2659 in its entirety, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 270 votes against - 155, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the national cybersecurity system. We would like to refer to item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2547. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the entire print project 2547, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 424 against - 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the organisation of the market in milk and milk products. We are returning to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Act on the Social Security System. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2588. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting on a bill that allows the Demographic Reserve Fund to invest not only in secure bonds, i.e. Treasury bonds, but also in bonds of various private companies. [[It's not different, it's just...]] Your excesses, your officials or your party nominates who encouraged state banks to invest in GetBack and their bonds. GetBack and over PLN 3 billion in trash bonds that are covered by people connected to the PiS. To this day, you don't want to explain it. [[Applause]] And after the SKOK event, when several billion zlotys were also lost - in this case the Bank Guarantee Fund paid - we cannot agree that such financial experts, from investments, like your people from the SKOKs or from GetBack dealt with pension funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund. [[Applause, ringtone]] You have to protect the pensioner's money. We can't support that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u385	Thank you. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 2588 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 247, against 178, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Security Act. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the urgent draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2676-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present this additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u386	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 27 amendments were tabled at second reading of the draft in print No 2661. Today, the Committee on the Environment has examined these amendments in detail and recommends that the High House adopt Amendment 2, voted in conjunction with Amendment 23, Amendment 3, Amendment 7, including Amendments 10 and 25, and Amendments 9, 11, 13, 15, 20, 22 and 23. The Commission recommends rejecting Amendments 1, 4, 5, Amendments 6, voted in conjunction with Amendment 8, and Amendments 12, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 21. In view of the likely adoption of Amendment 25, Amendment 24 will become obsolete. High Izbo! In general, we are dealing with waste management, as estimated by the National Chamber of Commerce, with the fact that 30-50% real, real flows are a gray zone. Poles expect this gray zone to end. The Commission has supported these amendments, which strengthen the sealing of the rules and did not support those amendments which tighten the rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u387	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee has tabled. Amendments 1 to 14 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Waste Act. In the first amendment to Article. 25 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 193 votes against - 230 and 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 25 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 6a, 6c and 6e. Amendment 23 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 23, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 262, against - 5, with 151 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 32 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 293, against - 4, 121 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 32 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 164 voted against - 258, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 41b. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 6 and 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 167 voted against - 255, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 41b. It's connected to the 8th Amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 7, 10 and 25. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not to ask a question, or actually not to explain it to the Members here, because this amendment is in a sense consummated by another amendment proposed by the Law and Justice, in which there is a change, namely a sanction. However, I must do this, and I must clarify something because your rapporteur is missing the truth. We propose amendments that do not seal the waste management system. That's not true. Our amendment was just to seal this system and at the same time to enable economic activity in waste management. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u389	There you go. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 6 and 8, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 39 against - 388, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 41b. Amendments 10 and 25 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 24. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 7, 10 and 25, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 397, against - 27, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a applicants shall propose amendments to the calculation and point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 9th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 270 votes against, 159 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1a point 2 of the proposal for the term "shareholder' is replaced by "procurent'. The consequence of the amendment will be to replace in the draft law in various cases the expression "shareholder' with the word "procurent'. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 400 voted against - 4, 22 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 46 applicants propose to add paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, by its incompetence, the PiS will paralyze with the provisions of this Act investments mainly on motorways and railway lines, because it does not know what the real definition of waste in Poland is, that waste is also land from excavations, and the transformation of waste is the construction of embankments and requires in a country where 70% the area does not have a spatial planning plan, such plans or construction conditions, while in the case of these infrastructure investments there are specialities and there is no such requirement. And only because the PiS insists ideologically and Partyly on rejecting any opposition amendment, even if it makes sense and logic, that's why this amendment is rejected. I hope that you will at least come to your senses in the vote, because of course there are already announcements that we will be improving perhaps [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u391	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 225, with 24 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the inserted article. 48a applicants shall propose an amendment of an editorial nature in paragraph 1. 9. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 295, against - 3, with 127 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the inserted article. 48a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 22. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment on our part aims to clarify and oblige the Minister of the Environment to ensure that very high estimates of safeguards are in line with their objective and correspond not only to the value of waste but also, above all, to the effects that can result from their abandonment, e.g. there will be very expensive safeguards for waste that no one will ever abandon, because these are non-ferrous metals, and this will paralyze this kind of solution. But there is, of course, rejection. This is on the principle: every logical proposition is rejected because we are right, because only the flood is after us. I just don't know if the Poles are gonna bleed from your governments any sooner than the flood that's coming after you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Good, good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u393	Madam, please do not use such words here, which should not be in the sitting room. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 173, against - 257, with one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. Paragraph 184. 2 point 16 of the Environmental Law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 299 against - 3 with 122 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment to Annex 3 of the Road Transport Act, applicants propose a new wording in point 4.9 of the second column. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 46 against - 355, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Minister. In this amendment and three others, it is proposed that the system of importing waste to Poland be clarified. On the one hand, total opposition speaks of Poland becoming a dumpster of Europe... [[In your day.]] ...that is, we are collecting too much waste and, on the other hand, it is trying to ensure that the price for imports of waste is significantly lower than in other European countries, so that all kinds of waste that can only be requested can be imported calmly. And responding to the voice from the left, from the so-called. Modern, it is worth reminding that in the previous year 370 thousand were brought to Poland. t waste, while at the same time more than 6 million tons were brought to Germany, and 7 or 8 years ago more than 1,200 thousand were brought to Poland. t waste. This clearly shows which way the total opposition is really trying to go. On the one hand, he criticizes the government for doing something, and on the other hand, he tries to disperse the system that we [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're normal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u395	Thank you. The Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, Members of the Civic Platform propose a reduction in the amount of the tax levy we propose for the issue of a permit for the import of waste. Because so far it has been an extremely small amount, because 1400 PLN, we propose that it be the rate of 14 thousand. zł. I believe that the reduction proposed by the Platform is completely unjustified because we would be almost competitive to bring waste, as the rate of such a charge in Germany is up to 6 000. The euro, so it's 14,000. zł proposed by us is much less, and reducing this to the amount proposed by the Platform would be an incentive to bring this waste to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u397	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 136, against 255, with 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the Act on International Movement of Waste, the applicant proposes to retain the existing wording of the article. 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u398	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am a little surprised that for two years you first agree to import hazardous waste, twice as much waste, and now suddenly - grounded, even as it is justified when it comes to the disposal of Polish waste. All of this is total hypocrisy and total stupidity. These figures, which Mr Piontkowski cites, are manipulation, because this larger amount of imported waste came from a time when there was no green list and it was necessary to give consent. As of last year, this waste has not been subject to authorisation. You just lie and run away from responsibility. If you think that the import of hazardous waste is too big, then the decisions are made by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor, who is your responsibility. You just don't want to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Take responsibility and think that you yourself...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u399	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u400	...you're making mistakes. And as Kononovich says. Nobody... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u401	Thank you, Member. Mr Piontkowski with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u402	More of a corrigendum, Mr. Marshal, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u403	No, sir. [[I don't agree either.]] I'm asking you in question mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u404	Again. Minister, therefore, the question is: Is it true that more waste was brought to Poland last year than 7 or 8 years ago? Is it true that Poland, bringing in 370 thousand last year. t waste, in previous years only a hundred and several tens of thousands of tonnes, brought these waste much less than our neighbours? Is it true that Germany, which borders with us, brought in 2017 more than 6 million tons, i.e. several times more waste than Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u405	Minister Henryk Kowalczyk will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to argue with numbers. [[You have to read them, Minister, not lie.]] In 2011, 1600 thousand were imported from abroad. t waste. In 2017, 377 thousand were imported. t waste from abroad, I stress: legally, because illegal is not known how much then and how much now. So if this is an increase, 377,000. It's bigger than 1,600 thousand, it's really hard to discuss other facts here. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the proposal for an amendment to remove the prohibition of municipal waste and waste from the treatment of municipal waste explicitly introduced by the law is indeed an irresponsible proposal. [[Applause]] [[But it has nothing to do with it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u407	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 227, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th Amendment to the Act on International Movement of Waste, the applicant proposes to add a new wording to the article. 11b. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill certainly won't limit the wave of fires, because, first of all, you don't know what was on fire or why. Why do you treat Polish entrepreneurs like a stepmother? Why did you only give them five days, and counting Saturday and Sunday, de facto 3 days to consult on this bill? Several thousand jobs of reliable Polish entrepreneurs are in real danger, who fully implement this and want to earn money honestly. First of all, you don't listen to them. Secondly, recycling companies that process waste. Yeah, you're talking about waste. Is a bottle of PET, HDPE, LDPE, cardboard, can't be wasted? Ladies and gentlemen! This is the raw material that is necessary for further production. Thanks to these raw materials, we can obtain products cheaper thanks to the fact that carbon dioxide emissions, but also energy, which is extremely valuable... At this point, there are real savings. Don't go that way. Allow me to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u409	Thank you, sir. I would remind you that, as regards the 19th amendment, the committee requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 170 voted against - 251, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes to give a new wording to paragraph 9. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 310 voted against - 110, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 10 draft amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 22. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u410	Minister! This amendment aims to ensure that the existing rules, which could not lead to waste management in Poland, are in line with citizens' expectations, i.e. So that it doesn't harm the environment and benefit people's health and lives... This amendment is now intended to ensure that, for the next three years, we maintain the rules that allow us to function, as one of the vice ministers, so-called. The garbage mafia. Therefore, Minister, Polish environment, Polish citizens today can afford to keep for 3 years the rules that allowed, among others. to smoke garbage without any responsibility, to act on companies that did not comply with basic environmental standards, and to act on companies that harmed the health of Poles? [[Applause]] [[You've had three years for this. So?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u411	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 21st amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 184 voted against - 243, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 289, against - 11, with 125 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 24 is therefore not relevant. In the 26th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 17 draft amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 26th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 173 voted against - 236, 20 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 18 of the draft law amending the applicant proposes to add a new wording to point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 27th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 227, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The whole bill. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u412	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to address you. The extreme irresponsibleness is the ignorance of the subject and the formulation of the rules so that they are contrary to what the purpose of this law is. In fact, you are harassing honest Polish entrepreneurs, and you will strengthen the mob because you will expand the grey zone. Unfortunately, this resort is a national ecological disaster. What you're not going to do is drama. [[Applause]] First he lets go, then you cut out the trees, seals are killed, and now we have a rapidly increasing number of fires and manipulations of facts, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because the facts you're quoting are about a time when you didn't need a list, you didn't need permission. [[It was the rules of your governments that led to this.]] Compare: between 2015 and your governments have doubled. [[That's when you issued permits that end today.]] Now this waste is without... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're just lying... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u413	Thank you, Member. Mr Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Let's get to the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u414	Dear Marshal, Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The protection of the environment and the protection of the air that we are breathing is paramount, Mr President, if you had doubts that I do not think so, but that is why we will support this law, even though it is full of drastic errors and has been tried against many parties, especially honest entrepreneurs. But we're giving you a chance to make it better in the Senate, just like you promised. All the time, Minister, I'm waiting for an apology for you calling my statement a steak of lies and slanders because you knew 10 months ago that 24 categories of waste were banned in China. I have yet to check: the stream of hazardous waste has increased since 2015 from 352 thousand. t to 700,000. t in 2016 and will be even bigger, so these are all facts, ladies and gentlemen, facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're confusing secondary raw materials with hazardous waste. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u415	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u416	Ladies and gentlemen! For several years, entrepreneurs who have been legally active in the waste industry have been demanding a revision of the rules so as to level the playing field between those who operate in the grey zone and those who are trying to comply with the rules in force in Poland. This law clearly meets their expectations. During the committee's work, we made amendments that were to implement the demands of the environment so as not to fire the baby with a bath. This law will allow continuous monitoring to be introduced so that it can be verified what is really happening in these waste treatment plants. [[Monitor the cone and the Kowalczyk.]] It also prevents businesses from doing business by those who have already broken the rules and are criminals and who have been able to carry on this activity to the detriment of the environment and citizens by virtue of the legal loops. This law introduces additional penalties for those who break the rules, so it works for the benefit of citizens. It's hard not to vote for a law like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u417	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that this House should speak in a very reliable, logical and rational manner. Even if Mr Tarczynski does something else, it is also worth talking about. The problem is, I think... [[The game was watching.]] The game's gone tonight. [[Mr. Shieldinski, they're teasing you.]] The problem is that the provisions introduced by this law are not provisions which would prevent economic activity. There's no such thing. On the other hand, it is important for us to understand why such a use of garbage in Poland occurred, which was the reason for this - whether it was such considerations that e.g. someone was crossing the law, or simply a special law was created to allow the impunity of the import of garbage into Poland. That's why I have a question for the Minister of Environment. First of all, when are you gonna answer my question on this matter and any other questions about this case? At the same time when finally [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're going to audit the law... [[Voice from the room: Just now.]] ...which was introduced in Poland in 2007 and 2015? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u419	Minister Henryk Kowalczyk will answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I would like to thank all the clubs for their constructive cooperation in the work on this law, although the last statements of the representative of the Civic Platform club did not indicate that there should be any constructive work. But during the committee's work, there were moments of constructive work. Of course you can say things, insult everyone, etc., may not like the bill. I know it's best if it stays the way it was, so that the garbage can be brought in without any responsibility, because unfortunately it has so far. [[But someone... what was the inspector doing?]] The main reason for fires and abandonment is that without any responsibility waste was imported and abandoned without any development. This is the first cause and fire, and abandonment, and the trouble of local governments. Of course, this has happened for many, many years. Ladies and gentlemen! We have to clean up after you - that's the fact right now, that's what it looks like. [[Applause]] [[In the trash.]] All these years, it has never occurred to anyone that the system is defective, that the system is leaky, that the system allows. We're also discussing some foreign permits. The system allowed, in addition to permits, which are really irrelevant at this point - these legally exported waste for the recovery of secondary raw materials are harmless... [[You're allowed to import from Nigeria.]] However, under the coat of these permits were imported waste, unfortunately dangerous, municipal waste, i.e. those which everyone wanted to dispose of. They were brought to us and they didn't do anything about it. So in this case, we've been sealing the system ever since. Of course, there is still a problem with the accumulation of waste, and we will solve this problem. This law does not solve this, it is obvious, but at least it protects us from further transport of waste in an unlimited manner, from dumping waste. I address Mrs Lieder from Modern. Since this bill - and you're going to support it - is so bad, so bad and has so many mistakes, why didn't the Modern Club make a single amendment to try and fix it at least a little bit? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Because you wouldn't have accepted them anyway.]] He should fold. If you're going to support the bill, and you're criticizing the specifics, you should have made some amendments. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: When did you accept our amendment?]] [[Voice from the room: The day before yesterday.]] So I'm hoping, after all, that political disputes will be put aside, but by everyone... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You measure your measure.]] ...the welfare of our environment will be taken into account and this bill will gain support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u421	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who of your Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act 2676, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 423 against - 1, 4 abstentions. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the urgent draft law amending the Act on Environmental Inspection and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2677-A. Third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 15 amendments were tabled during the second reading of the draft law in print No 2662. Today, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has examined these amendments in detail and recommends to the High House, firstly, reject amendments 1, 2 voted in conjunction with amendments 3, 4, 7 and 10, amendment 5, amendment 15, and accept amendment 6, amendment 8, including amendment 9, amendment 11, amendment 13, amendment 14 and the adoption of amendment 11. High Izbo! In general, the committee did not agree to the systemic amendment, the package of amendments leading to the removal of inspection services under the voivodeship from the administration of the combined voivodeship. Let me remind you that the functions of the voivodship as head of crisis management services are complementary to the powers of inspection, and that was the reason why we did not agree to do so. High Izbo! Speaking of these remarks, which were supposedly scandalous procedure, I will remind you that to the twenty-second, against the widespread outrage of Poles on burning landfills, the government quickly prepared a package of these two laws, over which we are now proceeding. The first reading was held on June 27th. The Commission has been working on them for a few days, and it is only today, on July 5, that we are discussing them, so I think that for laws that are supposed to remove the state that upsets most Poles, it is quite a decent, good pace, enabling good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u423	Please. Let me remind you, it's a 2677 print. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We will vote first on the amendments that the committee puts forward in its additional report. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Environmental Inspection Act. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose not to add paragraph. 1a. This amendment is linked to the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 14 irrelevant. The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is important to realise that this amendment causes the Environmental Protection Inspection to be equipped with police-procurator powers, investigations and investigations. This institution is not prepared to carry out such activities. In addition, control functions should not yet be combined with law enforcement functions. Units such as the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office should have services that will be specialized in environmental matters, and this task should not be transferred to the Environmental Protection Inspection, which, I repeat once again, control powers must, of course, be strengthened so that it can be effectively controlled and the proposals presented should be addressed to specialised investigative services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u425	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u426	Ladies and gentlemen! A few minutes ago, we passed a law that tightens up the business regulations. However, in order to check whether the trader is actually exercising the law, it is difficult not to create additional powers for the Environmental Protection Inspection so that it can keep an eye on what is happening in those large warehouses or landfills where waste is processed. This amendment aims to ensure that the Environmental Protection Inspection is the same as before, i.e. helpless, one that can't solve pathologies that can't prove to the entrepreneur that he broke the law, that he was illegally importing waste or simply setting it on fire. And that's why the inspection was equipped, among others. the possibility of monitoring, even with drones, what is happening on the site of the landfill. The practice so far has also shown that the police or prosecutors are unfortunately not well prepared to prosecute such crimes. Thus strengthening the role of the Environmental Protection Inspections in this area. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u427	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 15, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 169 voted against - 246, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 3 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. Amendments 3, 4, 7 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u428	Ladies and gentlemen! 20 years of the Environment Inspection Administration have led to such a conclusion that it is necessary to end the double submission of this inspection and to subdue it completely, vertically, to the Ministry of the Environment, thus ensuring that no local lobby will have an impact on the operation of this inspection and, in addition, it will be an effective tool to control all over Poland. We are therefore proposing here to introduce a systemic change and submit the Environmental Protection Inspection to the Ministry of the Environment. Anyway, Minister, there's some kind of change being made, because he's pulling out of the current regional environmental inspectors labs, which are now going to be subordinated to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So keep following the same lead. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u429	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of these amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 194 voted against - 218, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 28f. 5 and 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 164 votes against - 249. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 264 voted against - 29, with 129 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 20. Amendment 9 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 8 and 9, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 243 voted against - 17, with 157 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 21. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 12. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to protest the adoption of this amendment, but for the reasons why we made the other amendments. This amendment is due to incompetence and is simply illegal, interferes with the powers of the local government and makes it illegal to rule on areas to which there is no legal title. But it's common practice. The Civic Platform is behind sealing the system, behind environmental, environmental and logical, but above all effective, waste management system. All our amendments and demands were aimed at making it effective, not just for appearances. But we reject them, they were... And that is also an answer from the Minister, showing what is being done with the amendments. Even if you were right in committee, you ideologically reject them and put completely different issues in our mouths. But we will prepare an effective solution and an effective bill regulating this issue correctly. [[Applause]] [[When?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u431	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. There were 263 votes against, 155 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 12 is pointless. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 22. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 279, against - 18, with 123 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose a new wording of points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 14th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The vote was 276 against - 26, with 122 abstentions. The Sejm's amendment rejected... I'm sorry. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Members asked questions before voting on the whole of the bill. The question is asked by Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform will support this law, although there are legitimate concerns that it will introduce chaos in voivodship environmental inspectors, all the more so because it has not been prepared by voivodship environmental inspectors, who know most about the shortcomings in the current operation. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister, as I have to ask the question: Is the Minister prepared for us to closely monitor the implementation of this law, and in six months' time we will invite the Minister to the meeting of the Environment Committee to present the results of this amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u433	Thank you. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u434	Minister! Is this law implementing the demands of entrepreneurs to create an effective environmental inspection in Poland, an inspection which will be well financed will employ an adequate number of employees, so that they can also control those who conduct illegal activities at all and collect waste without having any permits to do so, and then make sure that such persons are convicted by valid judgments? Will this law allow environmental inspectors to use the additional legal provisions provided for in the previous Waste Act? Will this law finally allow to create a system of constant air monitoring in Poland, but perhaps also in the short term - water, and laboratories that will be certified throughout the country? Will this finally allow us to control the shipment of waste? Until now, the inspection had no such means. And whether it will finally be possible to control illegal entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] Without notice, seven days earlier? [[Applause]] [[All you have to do is ask if this bill is real.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u435	Thank you. Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u436	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, in answer to Mr Sonik's question, I will say that the law was consulted with the provincial environmental inspectors. I personally met with both inspectors and trade unions twice myself. These two meetings lasted several hours. So it is not true that she was not consulted. Really, in a dozen days there is much to be done, as it turns out. And so there is no doubt: the project was consulted and also welcomed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. On the other hand, this law provides tools for implementing the law we have just adopted on waste. This gives real control possibilities, so it endures a seven-day period of prejudice about control, which was actually a crazy record at this point. It introduces a 24-hour working system for the Environmental Protection Inspection, strengthens the Environmental Protection Inspection in financial, factual and laboratory terms. It also increases control powers with the use of many tools, e.g. introduces the ability to control cars that have not been there so far. So these tools that the Environmental Protection Inspection receives will allow the implementation of the Waste Act so that these regulations, more stringent, tighter, are actually enforced and maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u437	We proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2677, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. For -423, against -1, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Environmental Inspection Act and some other laws. We refer to item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, together with the analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy in 2017 and the Commission's draft resolution on discharge presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber. An amendment to the draft resolution was tabled in the discussion. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2656-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On 4 July, when discussing the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club tabled an amendment in the form of a resolution. The Public Finance Committee at its meeting on 5 July considered this request and voted against it. Previously, the Committee on Public Finance has examined the request made by Mrs Izabela Leszczyna for a negative assessment of the implementation of part 19 of the budget. The Commission also rejected this request. In conclusion, the Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt in its entirety a draft resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u439	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft resolution contained in the report in print No 2656. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as an amendment in the additional report, on which we will vote first. In the first minority proposal and the same amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the draft resolution. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this minority proposal and the amendment will render the remaining proposals irrelevant. The question was raised by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u440	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you: Is the pilot coming with us? There is no Prime Minister Morawiecki, who was Minister of Finance in 2017. That's disregard for the High House. [[Applause]] No new weapons were purchased in 2017. We were just refurbishing the old weapons. No helicopter was purchased, but there are five planes for power. Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Ministers established expenditures on the purchase of aircraft - PLN 1,700 million. Guess how much was spent? 3 billion. We cannot support this budget. Three negative opinions, the free disposal by the Minister of Justice of money, which he transfers to CBA - 25 million. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 30 descriptive opinions, which are negative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the budget of shame, the shame of the government of Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Morawicki. We can't support that. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u441	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u442	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I wanted to ask you where the surplus is. 12 months we have heard from Prime Minister Morawiecki about a surplus that has never been and will never be, and yesterday you were all surprised why no one wants to listen to the Prime Minister in Brussels talking about how to heal public finances. Probably because Poland has one of the worst results in the European Union. [[Yes.]] The 12 countries of the European Union have shown that, if you want, you can earn surplus. And so Germany, Sweden, Luxembourg, but also Lithuania, Croatia, Bulgaria and even Greece have shown that surplus in good times can be worked out. [[And the Czech Republic. Have you forgotten the Czech Republic?]] And Poland? Poland was placed in 21st positions against the European Union. This is the PiS management style and healthy public finances - one of the biggest deficits in Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u443	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority proposal and the amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For -190, against - 227, with a hold of 4. The Sejm rejected the offer. In the second minority proposal, the applicant proposes to add a point on the implementation of the State budget in Part 19. The question was raised by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the implementation of the state budget for 2017, but I will not waste our time, my time, to remind you of the conditions under which this budget was adopted on 16 December in the column room. These worse pictures, the way you conducted this vote, they'll stay with you forever. But I'm going to move on to what's clou, what came out of the Supreme Auditorium report. 2017 is a record year. In 2017, spending on bonuses for the most important government officials increased twelve times. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] This is your achievement. We have it in black and white - in the NIK report. This is not Mr Breiza's titanium work, it is an official document. And that is also your shame that will be remembered. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u445	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's true. The year 2017 will be history as the year of your money-jumping and your ministers - money spent on bonuses without written justification, which seems more functional to your salary than a bonus. But that wasn't enough. You spent more than 2 million in KPRM for transportation, although business cars drove 130 kilometers less. You really need to be able to do that. The cost of your transportation is seven times higher than the cost of using taxis in Warsaw. [[Gasoline's expensive.]] [[We went to Madeira.]] But if that's not enough, you can't even document when you're using the services of those stylists and when you're doing this vision that cost citizens nearly 50,000. zł. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u447	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. For - 192, against - 224, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Before the vote on the whole question, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You can't give the government discharge for implementing the budget... [[Yes, you can.]] ...who in good times didn't build any buffers for bad times. [[Who's talking?]] The Indians already knew that when they hunted the buffalo in the summer, they had to save half for the winter. [[Applause]] This is why 20 EU countries had a deficit of less than 1% last year And 12 countries had a surplus. Meanwhile, Poland? Our deficit was 1.7%. , almost 2% deficit despite more than 30 new taxes you imposed on Poles. How are you not ashamed, and how do you even do it? There will be no trace of this government, but unfortunately it will leave Poland vulnerable to fluctuations in the economy. That is why the Civic Platform will vote against. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u449	The question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska enters the pulpit]] [[It's not you, Paulina, it's not you.]] [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a complex question: Can a budget implementation report be adopted in which spending in the structure of expenditure decreases from 1.9 to 1.6 for education from 1.1% up to 1% for agriculture from 8% to 5.7% ? [[Applause]] And what did senior policy look like? A few gold valorizations... [[What are you talking about?]] ...you didn't support the project even single support, drugs for free are a kind of fake. Was there money? They were. In December 2017, PLN 4.5 billion were blocked in ZUS and KRUS, but the money was transferred to the Czartoryski Foundation, to the propaganda public media, to the new institution of historical memory... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...where you write a new story for Poles. Can you vote for one of these? [[♪ The bell ♪]] budget? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You can't!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u451	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u452	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A good sentence, which would characterize the situation last year, is: They found Poland brick and left it wooden. In fact, I wanted to ask you where this Moravian plan is and when we see its first results... [[Richard Petru?]] ...because there was going to be a revival in investment, we waited all year long, but at the end of the year it turned out that we had the lowest rate of private investment for 15 years. To the fact that companies are already abstaining from investing, we're actually used to it. But the fact that we have the negative dynamics of domestic investment in the first quarter is really amazing, because you have to be able to do that. So the question to the Minister, because she hasn't answered any of them yet: When will we see the first results of the Moravian plan? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u453	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this very comfortable situation that I don't have to get angry, I don't have to make a big policy out of something that's math. Two plus two is four. If, on the State Treasury's revenue and revenue side, these sums have been increased - which we are very happy about - then two plus two should be four, in other words, to reduce the State's debt. We haven't allocated a single dollar to reduce the Treasury's debt. We have increased taxes, increased public tributes, but we have not reduced spending. The result is that, unfortunately, our debt is growing all the time. Our children and our debts... Long ones, too. Our children and grandchildren will be paying more and more. [[Long, yes.]] For this simple reason - not politically or otherwise - that in our budget 2 plus 2 is not 4, we cannot support that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: All debts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u455	The question is asked by Tadeusz Cymanski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been here 21 years, I've been with Parliament, but I've never... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: You can see that.]] [[Voice from the room: You look good.]] I'm just saying this to give you a little detail. In the final phase of this excellent discussion, there was not a single... [[Voice from the O.R.:]] It's never happened before. Never. There was one, there were two, three, but there was always someone. [[But, sir, it is so often with you, it is so often in the PiS.]] I know the material status has been damaged, but it's that bad? The question is the most important. It must be made clear: the Supreme Audit Chamber from this place, by the President's mouth, recommended that the High Chamber adopt the report. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is an institution that has not spared you, and we have used it, and today it does not save us and report, raises hard questions. [[Voice from the O.R.: Eliminate.]] This is the last institution that has great respect. Let's respect that, and let's not do propaganda. [[The bell, the buzzer in the room.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. Copy. [[Applause]] [[You finally made it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u457	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers in print No 2656, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[But the minister wanted to answer.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 232, against - 193, 4 stopped. [[Applause]] I declare that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. We would like to return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2017, together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the information. The Commission requests that this information be accepted. The question was asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister and I ask for a written reply. Why is it that, in economic times, the second year in a row of zones, instead of developing, are collapsing? The two main indicators showing the development of zones are the cumulative value of invested capital - the second year in a row the value of this capital falls - and new jobs that are created in zones. It's getting smaller, too. I have a question. Is that the result of you swapping almost 100%? Management in zones, or propaganda, which the Prime Minister is practicing, saying: one zone throughout Poland? But I think it's all gonna go away. Now it's rolling off in economic times, and what happens when the deconstruct starts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u459	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to disagree with Mr Cymanski that the PiS policy led to a situation where the last institution we trust is the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[Applause]] Thank you, President Kwiatkowski. Sorry about my voice, but I've got a cold... [[Voice from the room: Don't explain yourself.]] ...because I had the opportunity yesterday morning to escort the first president of the Supreme Court... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...Professor Margaret Gersdorf. At the end of the question. Why didn't you react when it turned out that for the first time since the beginning the expenditures in special investment zones were falling? With this good economic situation, you have done nothing. Investment outlays amounted to more than PLN 5 billion less than before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u461	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information contained in print 2591 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 164, against - 228, the 26. The Sejm's motion to reject the information has been rejected. We return to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2017 and the Commission's draft resolution. The Sejm carried out the first reading and proceeded to the second reading of the draft resolution. In the light of the proposal to proceed with the vote, following the notification to the Members of the table of amendments tabled, objections were raised. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the vote after the table of amendments tabled has been served will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 379, against - 42, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. A summary of the amendments tabled was delivered to print No 2643. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the draft resolution. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Artur Dunin, the Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I got the information yesterday, and I wanted to check it out. Is it true that the National Radio and Television Council knows that President Kurski is demanding money from the Polish Committee for broadcasting from the Special Olympics? Is that true? [[Don't yell!]] Is it true that instead of social functions, money, money for Kurski? Answer me that question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u463	The question is asked by Witold Zembaczyński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u464	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Constitutionally in Article. 213 states that the National Radio and Television Council must uphold freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. However, the public interest under your supervision on national television has long gone bankrupt, and only the party business has gone out of business and this great and sound party business is dangling on this screen and covering all objective messages. In addition, journalistic integrity, objectivity in the issue e.g. The news is literally a white crow. Of course, I do not mean Mrs Elizabeth, who has something to say about the media... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...just asking a simple question, when will you stop in public national media, TVP Info and other such to make water from the brain to Poles, because in the final of all this brain will remain only necrosis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u465	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we saw the statements of Prime Minister Morawiecki in Brussels, in Strasbourg in the European Parliament, who argued that journalists do not have any restrictions on access to public media, the opposition has no restrictions on access to public media. This is what I wanted to ask the majority of the parliament today: Does this mean that in the near future you will receive an invitation to the public media to continue your program. Thomas Fox? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u467	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the hall: Even Vladek doesn't listen to you anymore.]] 409 Members voted. For-- 199, against-- 208, holding off on two. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the resolution. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 193, against - 221, with a hold of 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in the committee's report. The questions were raised by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Radio and Television Council pursuant to Art. 213 of the Constitution should defend freedom of expression and should also take care of the public interest. Since the National Council of Radiophony and Television in a gross way did not question the censorship of the President of Polish Television Jack Kurski, who censored many times, but the most spectacular translation is the elimination of Julia Wyszyńska... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...the actor who played in the Klątwie at the Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw, which he eliminated from the performance of the White Blowblower. He said this show could be played on condition they replace it. It's just outrageous, unacceptable. The National Radio and Television Council should be an example of a democratic instrument that upholds our democratic civil rights. He doesn't. This is unacceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we're against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u469	The question is asked by Mr Szczerba, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I look at you, it always reminds me of such an animal from Adam Mickiewicz's fairy tale: He was already in the backyard, already greeting a goose. This was also the case with the National Radio and Television Council. What happened and what happened on 11 December 2017? The National Radio and Television Council imposed a fine of PLN 1.5 million on TVN24 for TVN24... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: What a story...]] ...really reported social protests on December 16th. What the same advice did... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate with this integrity.]] ...the same chairman of the National Radio and Television Council on January 10th? He canceled his sentence, his fine. That's what you do. And what's left? Hide in the tent and hide your shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u471	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 2643 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 229, against - 197, holding off on 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017. We return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017 together with a draft resolution from the Commission. The Sejm carried out the first reading and proceeded to the second reading of the draft resolution. In the light of the proposal to proceed with the vote, following the notification to the Members of the table of amendments tabled, objections were raised. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the vote after the table of amendments tabled has been served will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 397, against - 29, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. A summary of the amendments tabled was delivered to print No 2644. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the draft resolution. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question was raised by Mrs Izabela Śledzińska-Katarasinska. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Iwona!]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Izabela was not me. May I, Marshal, for I am not Isabella?]] Excuse me, ma'am. I read it automatically. [[The voice from the hall: And what is Isabella you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u472	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, editor. Yesterday, with disarming sincerity, he admitted that the board only deals with the management, supervisory boards and programme boards of companies. [[And they take the money.]] Nothing else. And what and how these boards are in charge there, the council is no longer interested. So here's my question. Since, in my opinion, all these jamboards have already been distributed, all these jobs have been allocated, then when will Mr President, the editor, present this to the Ministry of Propaganda's staff office a good change in resignation? It's time to say, Mr. President: the task is done. And walk away with honor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u473	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 182, against - 227, stopped 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to give a new wording to the draft resolution. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 191, against - 224, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the resolution. The question was raised by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How does the National Media Council work in practice? In practice, this is what it looks like. Mr Czabański is promoting a law in the Sejm, a law on destruction, the liquidation of one of the agricultural sectors. Then there is a programme on public television, the sound of which is that it is detrimental to the bill which Mr Czabański is promoting. What is Mr Czabanski doing? Mr Czabański, as the body supervising the functioning of the public media on Twitter, announces that he will intervene with the President of TV on this programme, which has gone wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a flagrant conflict of interest. [[Really?]] You've made public television cheap, dumb propaganda, and you're not even hiding it, and you have a huge conflict of interest with what you're doing. It's against any ethical principles. The activities of the National Media Council led by the President are against [[♪ The bell ♪]] any ethical principle. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u475	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 190, against - 227, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole question, Mr Piotr Liroy-March, a non-attached Member, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the ruling party formed the National Media Council, I drew attention from the same place to the absurdity that appeared on the occasion, i.e. that we created the National Media Council without having national media at all. This absurdity actually continues and this absurdity drains the pocket of our taxpayer into value only to actually duplicate the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council. When the vice-president of the association effectively submitted to the National Media Council with a complaint about the activities and boycotting of the association in Warsaw by the Warsaw Centre of Polish Television and Radio for you, this National Media Council sent this complaint where? The National Radio and Television Council. We only spend money so that a few members of the governing coalition can call themselves ministers. I call for the immediate liquidation of the National Media Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] and restore the status quo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u477	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I never agree with Mr. Robert Winnicki, but for the first time today, yes. You're right, sir. What happened to you? The National Media Council is, of course, an unnecessary, absurd, grotesque body in our democratic reality. But she has one very serious task. This is a very important political decision. We've got local government elections ahead of us. The National Media Council will serve to create media reality before these elections. Recently, people have been appointed who have been head of the Programme Council for several days or for several weeks. I don't think there is, Mr. Czabański - and please answer me - not one person outside the PIS community. Is that true or not? Well, the National Media Council is an extremely dangerous, yet grotesque and very useful body for PiS, and a very dangerous body for the democratic Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unconstitutional. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u479	The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The worst part is that under the motto of restoring balance in the public debate, you have made national media such a dull propaganda that does not exist only for the national movement, but also for right-wing, conservative and Catholic publicists, for frontier activists... [[What about liberals?]] ...those who don't follow the PiS party line. That's the problem. You have not restored any balance in the public debate, in which the left and liberals dominate the media space, you have cut out narrow, small and badly managed, with terrible consequences for the public debate, a window for your narrow party apparatus. And more and more independent, conservative, right-wing, national and Catholic environments are seeing it -- they see how tight, narrow and unhappily your vision is. And that's what you're gonna be responsible for.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u481	The question is asked by Michał Kaminski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u482	And the Union of European Democrats, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the President of the National Media Council as an outstanding - and I say this without irony - journalist. In your opinion, Mr President, in today's issue of TV news, should Poles learn how the closest advisor to Prime Minister Netanyahu evaluates the foreign policy of the Polish government in relations with Israel? [[Applause]] Should television news today indicate that, in the opinion of those who negotiated with the government of Mr Morawiecki, Mr Morawiecki's government shrunk its tail before Prime Minister Netanyahu? [[Applause]] Do you think Poles should know that today the Polish government is being ridiculed for giving everything away and not getting anything? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u483	We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in the committee's report. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 2644 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 226, against - 197, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law on State aid for housing expenditure in the first years of renting a flat. The additional committee report is in print No 2664-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on State aid for housing expenditure in the first years of renting a flat. 14 amendments were tabled during the meeting. The high committee or joint committees recommend the adoption of amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 13, and the rejection of amendments: 5, 8, 9, 10 and 14 and the adoption of the whole act, i.e. voting green. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u485	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 2664. The committees in the additional report also present amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 4, 6, 7 and 11 to 13. applicants propose amendments to the proposal to extend the period of application of the aid from 9 to 15 years. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. The question was asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this bill you want to give people an apartment for 9 years or even 15 years, as one of these amendments proposes. What about after 15 years? Will people stay on ice? Who's gonna want to move out of this warm apartment after 15 years? Where are these people gonna move after 15 years? This bill deactivates society. This law does not encourage a man living in this apartment to earn more. What if the tenant gets a better-paid job offer or if the tenant gets a raise? He's probably gonna do everything he can not take that raise. Or to take her under the table, because if she accepts her, she's gonna lose that grant and that apartment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u487	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u488	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Apartment is the most important thing for the family, but you have to look for different ways to meet the needs of Polish people. You are closing down the program, the apartment for young people, a program that allowed you to acquire an apartment of about 300,000. Polish families. At the same time, you collide in legal proposals. Even yesterday, during the reading of the bill, subsidies were supposed to be granted for 9 years and the entire justification of the law provided for this purpose in the end. 1,200 million, and now there are over 3 billion for this purpose. How? Where's the money coming from? We can't support it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u489	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 1 to 4, 6, 7 and 11 to 13 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 229, against - 166, with a hold of 17. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 11 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. Amendments 8 and 9 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question was raised by Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is trying to give something, but on the other hand, he's scaring the punishments. You won't be satisfied with a statement, you'll be asking for a certificate if any official has any doubts. And if there aren't enough certificates, you're gonna start all the services to check out this tenant, but not just the tenant, his entire family. More confidence in the citizens. Please support this amendment. For the right side of the room - a green button, as Mr Rozonec said. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u491	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u492	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, He asked a very important question - from where the money came from. I'll try to explain quickly how the PiS works. Commercial real estate tax, second rate of rent tax, bank tax on mortgage loans - these are the three taxes you introduced that burden housing in Poland and rent in such buildings. This is 100 zlotys from this tax. The salary for you, the bonus for you and the money for the president's friends. [[From the president...]] And then you have 50 zlotys and you tell your citizens you're giving them something for their rent. That's what your rule is. Let's not be lied to, it's not any money you give. Question: "Which key will they share?" Who are you gonna take 100 zlotys from and who are you gonna give 50 zlotys to? We're not in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u493	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 5, 8 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 196, against - 218, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question was raised by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u494	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! When Law and Justice introduced a minimum wage almost 2 years ago, it introduced an hourly minimum wage, from this stand there was such propaganda that now Poles will earn well and they will afford anything. So? And during almost three years of government you introduced dozens of taxes, introduced a tax on gasoline, all of the PiS voted to keep VAT rates high and it turned out after 3 years that Poles couldn't afford anything. Today you're taking their money, pulling money out of their pockets and pretending to give it to them. Meanwhile, you're pulling money out of your pockets, you're charging yours for bonuses, and the rest that stays in the form of socialist programs you're trying to... Ladies and gentlemen, in construction, a comprehensive programme is needed in housing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no comprehensive program. I ask, when will he finally rise? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u495	The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bogdan Rzońc, is Mr Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot listen to what the Member has just said here. [[Then don't listen.]] [[Voice from the hall: Just as we have you, as we have you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize intelligent people by the way they make money and the smart ones by the way they spend. You're not gonna talk us out of a smart pro-social policy. Thank you very much. [[It's not your money.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u497	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 192, against - 220, with a hold of 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[You spend on bonuses, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, sit down.]] [[Voice from the room: Get off your knees.]] In the 14th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 35. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, joined the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016, the government adopted a resolution in which it adopted a national housing programme. It's been almost two years since, and we've had a big bust. The media reports that companies that build cheap apartments for rent are failing. The media reports that tenants are surprised by the low rents, which are in fact commercial rentals. Now you are proposing a solution that you would like to analyse only in 2025. We suggest, analyze it next year, analyze it in 2 years and draw conclusions, correct it, do not wait until 2025. Minister, why the stubbornness? Why don't you learn from the failure of the Apartment+ program? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u499	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u500	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Member was right, we were in the accounts inaccurate, we forgot about the promise you made to voters, the reduction of VAT to old rates, i.e. the tax on the rental of commercial real estate, which is charged to apartments, the second rate of the rent tax, the bank tax which is added directly to mortgages. It should be added that from every apartment in Poland worth 300,000. zł Every buyer pays only VAT, which you promised to pay back, 3 thousand. zł. This is the specific money you take from your citizens every day. You have no right to ever say that you give them anything again. Poland is not a country that flows oil. This is where the money goes to the budget. [[Voice from the room: No, no finger.]] Every penny is given to you by the citizens. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u501	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. For-- 195, against-- 225, two stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel, Club of the Civic Platform, submitted a question before voting on the entire draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u502	Ladies and gentlemen! The payment project is proof that you admit to failure of the M+ program in the KZN system. I wanted to ask you what's gonna happen to the tenants of these apartments when they're out of the payout period. These are groups of poorer people. I'm asking if you're gonna throw them on the pavement according to the institutional lease. This is homelessness plus, not housing plus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u503	The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Alexis de Tocqueville said that democracy ends when Parliament sees that citizens can be bribed with their own money. You didn't just notice it, you made it a modus operandi. Why not give the citizen a fishing rod? You first take the fish away from the citizen by raising further taxes and then kindly give half this fish. [[Voice from the room: Owls.]] And we say simply: If we want young people to get rich, so that Poles can earn decent money and to be able to afford their own apartment, we need to give them a fishing rod, which is to reduce labour costs, which is to reduce labour taxation and stop them taking 40% salary. It's an honest prescription. Kukiz Club15, as an honest club, honestly says: We will not take. We propose a reduction in labour costs, taxation of labour, and therefore we will vote against it in its entirety. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lying project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u505	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Supporting the construction of apartments for rent is extremely important. The state should create a comprehensive housing program. Modern supports the program of building apartments for rent, but not in this form. This solution does not support the hard work of Poles and does not encourage them to earn money, but encourages them to mix and deactivate our society. The solution to this problem can be simple. If you stop imposing hundreds of taxes on Poles, which generate only an increase in the cost of our lives, then Poles will certainly have money on their own M. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u507	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2664, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 366, against - 52, 7. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment. We return to the review of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Tax Order Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2700. The question was raised by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, club of PSL. [[Mr Janusz Silchoń enters the podium]] [[It's not Tokarska.]] Mr Genowefa, you are not Mrs Genowefa. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Anything we don't know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, High Izbo, allows to block entrepreneurs, customers of any bank account or SKOK for a period of up to 72 hours without possibility of appeal and without knowledge, without information about this blockade. I therefore ask whether the National Tax Administration will bear the responsibility for errors in the blocking of the resources of entrepreneurs. Will the trader claim his compensation solely on a judicial basis by suing whom? A bank that's supposed to be mute and can't tell you if it's the National Tax Administration? Another question: Will the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, a sympathetic former Member of Lublin land, be able to inform his subjects about the right of entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he prepare the PiS? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u509	The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. Mr... [[Voice from the room: There's a switch.]] Oh, the switch... Mr Jakub Kulesza. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. [[I don't ask here.]] [[Voice from the room: This is the wrong point.]] What's up? Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Third time's a charm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u510	We did it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a very important project from the point of view of security of Polish entrepreneurs. As we have just heard here, the tax administration without notice, without the possibility of cancellation will be able to block the entrepreneur's account for 72 hours. I will repeat once again: without order and without the right to challenge this decision. This is a violation of fundamental constitutional principles. It's an art violation. 78 constitutions, i.e. the right to appeal, the citizen's confidence in the state, art. 2 and finally the principles of proportionality. And that's not just my opinion. At the committee meeting, these observations and concerns were also confirmed by the Legislative Bureau and previously raised doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister for Enterprise.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u511	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u512	What does the spokesman say, who wasn't long ago... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Have you called? [[Applause]] [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u513	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Recently we talked about the 2017 budget, but it must also be said explicitly that the budget, that 2017 is also the year of tormenting small and medium-sized enterprises in Poland. Polish companies are beginning to fall at the rate at which they fell in the crisis. Already this year, the increase in bankruptcy is 21% , and it is expected that 30% will ultimately fall more companies compared to last year, and already last year was a good increase. What's causing this? Of course, above all liquidity problems, split payment, withholding VAT, but also profitability, because labour costs are rising, there are new charges and taxes. Of course, there are problems in the labour market. The problem with finding an employee ends with a contract failure. Finally take care of the economy and help Polish entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like you promised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u514	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During my first reading I talked about the fact that we are at war, in the tax war, while this proposal, which means blocking business accounts, these 72 hours without a provision, without the possibility of appeal, is simply an overstep. You guys are out of line right now. I'm not gonna say what. Any entrepreneur from the moment Mr President signs this bill can live in constant uncertainty about whether he can make a payment and thus whether he falls or not. If there is a situation in which entrepreneurs fall, people will be on the brink, their contractors will not get the money. This could cause a very dangerous operation. We were in favour of investigating this bill on the committee, so that you might come to your senses, so you wouldn't screw around with entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, you have not made any amendment, so we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u516	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2700 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 227, against - 192, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. We are returning to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2687-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, print no. 2333, 2687 and 2687-A. Eight amendments were tabled at second reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 5 July 2018, requests the adoption of four amendments and the rejection of four amendments, in the order of rejection 1, 2, 4 and 5, and the adoption of 3, 6, 8 and 7. The Commission also requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u518	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2687. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 6 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Public-Private Partnership Act. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording added to the Article Act. 3b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Ms Anna Nemś, Platform Club, came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public-private partnership is a very important source of funding for public investment. It is an important source throughout Europe, but unfortunately not in Poland. In Poland, like economic zones, PPPs are completely reversed. Today, this bill you are presenting will not change this situation. We're trying to improve it. In the 1st amendment, we offer the possibility for a public entity to request an opinion on the appropriateness of the PPP project not only to the Minister for Regional Development but also to the competent marshal. The Marshals in this area have great potential to evaluate the form of implementation of this project. This will also mean greater autonomy of local government units and not involving the central authorities to have time for other important activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u520	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For -190, against - 214, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 7 The applicant's laws propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 215, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 3rd amendment to the Article added in the Act. 7a applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For -190, against - 224, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th Amendment, applicants propose to add Article in the Act. 7c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Maria Janyska, the Platform Club, came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u521	High Izbo! In this amendment, we propose to ensure that the payment of subcontractors is protected by a private partner. We want the subcontractor to have the same security of payment that he would have had if he had carried out this task in public procurement. And our surprise is the fact that you do not want to understand it and do not want to protect the payments to subcontractors. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question in this situation: And where is the SME spokesperson, the spokesperson who is supposed to defend the rights of entrepreneurs? Two weeks ago he received a political nomination - straight from the parliamentary jury to the office. He's probably interested in collecting gadgets now, and here, ladies and gentlemen, what the bill is, are problems for entrepreneurs, just like in the case of the tax ordination just voted out. Mr. Spokesman, wake up, 'cause when you wake up, when your subcontractors are bankrupt, they'll find you and they'll take the consequences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u522	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 194, against - 224, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 The applicant's law proposes that the current content of the article. 8 mark as paragraph. 1 and to add paragraph. Two and three. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 197, against - 222, holding off on 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment to the Article added in the Act. 16a applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question was asked by Anna Nemś, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we would like the Minister for Regional Development to submit a report on the implementation of PPP tasks not only to the Council of Ministers but also to the relevant Parliamentary Committee. That's what we have in the zones, that's what reports are. We accept the three-year reporting period. We would like the first report to be submitted, due to the catastrophic, once again, situation in PPP, by 1 August 2019. I hope you will support this amendment and vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u524	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. For - 197, against - 223, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 16 draft law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 193, against - 216, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Ms Anna Nemś, Platform Club, submitted a question before voting on the entire draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public-private partnership achieves the most economically efficient means of delivering public services through the division of tasks, responsibilities and risks. Each side, both public and private, benefits. As we have seen in the report that you presented for the years 2009 and 2017, the number of pending proceedings in 2017 decreased by 60%. Ladies and gentlemen, how much was started in 2017? 16 cases. In the previous years it was 50, 60. It's a disaster, it's just going backwards. A private entity will never risk its money in a situation of uncertainty and instability. Will this bill of inquiry make any difference? It won't. I hope so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the state on this side knows there are others... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u526	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2687 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For -422, against -5, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws. We refer to point 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2546. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2546 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. They were all in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Objection... [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Objection against what? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Well, that's what we're gonna be voting on. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] Exactly. [[But I volunteered to ask you a question.]] Oh, there's a question. In the meantime, it has. Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The change will also result in the consolidation of the image of Polish Waters as a reliable counterparty in the long term. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] This is a quote from the justification of this draft resolution. You don't believe it because yesterday, when that bill was processed, there was no one in the room from the PiS. There was no Prime Minister Szydło, who from this pulpit defended this bill so much. There was no Mrs Paluch who carried out this law so cleverly by the Sejm. There was no Mr. Materna or Mr. Gajda who screwed up... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection to the language.]] [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...that bill, he took the award, went to a private company, and he's fine. Ladies and gentlemen! You're so ashamed of this bill, you want to put it on one committee. You want, according to your Prime Minister's prescription, to treat the plague with cholera, but you're not gonna do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not gonna fix this bill, you're not gonna improve your image, and we're gonna explain it on the committee of inquiry. Your conclusion on this matter lies with Marshal Mazurek. [[But you're cursing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u528	Member, just a moment. You were objecting. Was this opposition to refer the project to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation? [[Yes. We want him to go to other committees, too.]] I see. [[Voice from the room: This is what we have, it's already been reported.]] Mr Marek Owa also referred to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand a little bit of the PIS. They just wanted to exclude one of their own from this bill, and that's why they wanted to narrow it down to just one committee, but it's really very serious. You must know that this is really about the functioning of Polish Waters and that this must be done by the finance committee. There's no doubt about that. Because this is about the budget of Polish Waters, this established institution, which has no means, which is paralyzed, which does not perform any statutory tasks. The first victim of this Water Law is a crowd of 5.5,000. employees of Polish Vodka, who were promised PLN 850 increase in 2016, which they did not receive. They didn't get the money. Their average salary for January this year is PLN 2740. And those who came from local governments lost $1,000 each. I'll read you a text, a fragment of a single employee's letter: Disassembled... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u530	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member said that Polish waters are an honest contractor, so I thought I should go out and ask. The Polish waters are the heir of previous entities that employed employees, who made an agreement on increases with the relevant minister 2 years ago. Have they received these raises yet or not? Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the case that, since the Ministry has an agreement with the employees on the basis of which they are to receive increases, if they have not received this money, you are also at risk of paying them statutory interest. Or are you unbelievable? If the Minister comes in and concludes an agreement on the basis of which employees are to receive a salary increase, doesn't that count? And that's what? You're making a fucking mouth out of it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u532	We now proceed with the vote on the opposition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to refer the project to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. For 264, against 134, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the second vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the additional referral of the draft law in print No 2638 to the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. For - 191, against - 226, he abstained 1. The Sejm's proposal in its application rejected it. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Investments in the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws (Prints No. 2683 and 2690). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has tabled three amendments to the bill. The Commission proposes to accept all these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u534	I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. All amendments of the Senate submitted to the Act on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. In the first amendment to Article. 1 paragraph Points 7 and 27 of the Senate propose an editorial and legislative amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting on it. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. There was one Member against - 419, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 The Senate proposes an editorial change. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting on it. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. For--nobody, everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment of the Senate in the added article. Paragraph 24 1c proposes a legislative change. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The absolute majority is 200. The opposition was 398, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws (Prints No. 2681 and 2704). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate leaned over the bill and tabled a great amendment, which I propose to accept - to vote in red. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u536	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 93 of the Act on Road Transport The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 93 of the Act on Road Transport. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on tachographs (Prints No. 2680 and 2703). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate has accepted two amendments in this case and we propose that these amendments be adopted, i.e. the red vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u538	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 11 of the Senate Law proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 1 was in favor, against - 418. The Sejm accepted the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law on tachographs. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the House Property Act (Prints No. 2684 and 2695). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u539	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The Senate accepted two amendments. The committees are asking for these amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u540	Thank you very much. We'll vote according to the rules... [[Mr Margaret Chmiel enters the podium]] [[Voice from the Chamber: What about the vote?]] ...used before. In the first amendment to Article. 2 (2) 1b of the Property Act, the Senate proposes to delete the words unless construction works requiring construction permits have been carried out in the building after that date. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question was raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u541	Thank you very much. This is another amendment of the laws introduced by the KZN Act, which confirms our position that it is a complete legal bubel. Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased that you have accepted the amendments that we have suggested, because this is the third time that the same provision has been corrected. Wasn't it better to hear what we were saying right away? Do you think we want to tease you? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] We just want to make a good law and fix it. So next time, please listen to what we're saying. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u542	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. In -2, against -415, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 Act amending the Senate by adding paragraph. 2 proposes a transitional provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. No one was in favour, no 413 Members - against, no 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Trade Unions and certain other laws (Prints No. 2682 and 2694). I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Janusz Sniadek, please present...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the Law on the amendment of the Trade Union Act adopted by the Sejm, published 10 amendments of the legislative and editorial nature. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments of the Senate, asks the High House, unparalleledly unanimously, to accept all the amendments of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u544	We will vote in accordance with previous rules. Amendments 1 to 7. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Trade Union Act. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. In - 1, against - 411, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. 1 in point 2 of the Senate proposes a different wording of the definition of employer. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. No one was against 310, holding 100. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes to delete paragraph 3. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. No one was in favor of, uh, 411, 2 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 4 The Senate proposes a different wording of the first sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The absolute majority is 204. No one was in favor, 406 against, one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, among others. to Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 5 The Senate proposes that the expression "interests of persons engaged in a job' be replaced by "interests of persons referred to in Article'. 2 (2) One and three-six. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. No one was in favor of - 409, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 26 The Senate proposes a different wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. No one was in favor of, 411 against, holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate proposes to amend point 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 1 The Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue The Senate proposes a different wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. The absolute majority is 202. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes to add an article. 20a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 22. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Management of Successive Businesses of a Natural Person (Prints No. 2685 and 2691). I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation of the Senate Resolution on the Successive Management Act of the Natural Person's Company, print No 2685. After considering all the amendments tabled by the Senate - these amendments were 31 - the committee asks that all amendments be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u546	We shall vote in accordance with the principles previously adopted. Amendments 1 to 7. The Senate has submitted a successful natural person to the Board of Directors Act. Amendments 1, 3 to 5, 10, 11, 13. to 23rd, 25th to 27th, 29th and 30th. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 3 to 5, 10, 11, 13. To the 23rd, from 25th to 27th, 29th and 30th, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Mr Marshal, you are not heard at all.]] Okay, I'll speak up. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[To us. To us, not to myself.]] 412 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. [[Room voice: Bravo, Marshal.]] In the second amendment to the article. 43b... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: But not necessarily so.]] ... The senate proposes in his mouth. 2 in the second sentence after the application... [[Voice from the room: It's a bit smarter than that.]] ....with the exception of the period of suspension of proceedings referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. [[Voice from the room: Now it's too loud, Marshal.]] Okay. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. The against voted 410, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes in the second sentence to add a reference. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. Against 410, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 60. This amendment is combined with the 8th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The absolute majority is 207. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. 56 Act on enforcement proceedings in administration in the added § 1b The Senate proposes in point 1 a different period for suspension in its entirety of enforcement proceedings. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 2 (2) Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 2 The Accounting Act of the Senate proposes to add accordingly the words "civil partnerships of natural persons and enterprises in decline'. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The absolute majority is 206. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th Amendment to the Pharmaceutical Law, the Senate proposes in Article. 43a paragraph. 1 repeal point 1 and Article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1a reword points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 1 was for, 417 against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 72 of the Law on Restructuring The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 2. 1. This amendment is combined with the 31st amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 28 and 31 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws (Prints No. 2686 and 2715). I ask Mr Kubov to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology at its meeting on 5 July considered the amendments of the Senate. There were six of them. I recommend the High House to welcome everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u548	We will vote in accordance with previous rules. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported to the law on trust services and electronic identification. In the first amendment to Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 The Senate proposes that the financial penalties referred to in certain provisions be imposed by decision by the Minister responsible for IT. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. Everyone was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 2 to 5 are editorial. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 2 to 5 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. It's a ruthless majority, 197. In - 4, against - 388. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 6th amendment to the article. 69 of the Law amending the Senate proposes a change of reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The absolute majority is 205. For -2, against - 406, abstained - 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law on facilitating the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. At the second reading of the draft law, following the submission of amendments to it, objections were raised to the proposal to re-direct the draft to the Extraordinary Commission in order to submit a report. I will put to the vote the proposal to refer the draft law to the Extraordinary Commission in order to present an additional report. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm will proceed with the third reading after the report of the amendments tabled has been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. The questions were raised by Krystyna Sibińska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS introduces new standards in local lawmaking. From now on, theologians, politicians, historians should be involved in spatial planning and investment implementation, because these people, without compromising their competence in other areas, are on the deregulation committee. That is why we raised our objections, because for all our housing investments, all the proposals for housing were dealt with by the Committee on Infrastructure, and in terms of spatial planning, local law making, the projects were always on the board of the local government. Today it turned out to be such a strange way. The deregulation committee is dealing with the law that new investments will be built on the basis of a resolution of the municipalities' councils. It doesn't have anything to do with deregulation, really. I was gonna ask who [[♪ The bell ♪]] And with whom did he agree, in what mode will you build it? [[Applause]] [[How much?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u550	The question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u551	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a law that is already called the Developer+ Act in some circles. And that should make you think, that's all. The painting, on the other hand, describes how this law is being dealt with: she was sent to parliament less than a week ago... [[There's gonna be a committee of inquiry.]] ...it was surprisingly addressed to the committee, and not to the committee of substance, the Committee on Infrastructure, which could say in substance what is in this law, but to the committee on deregulation, although this law with this committee has absolutely nothing to do with deregulation, unless it is deregulation that considers something that this law introduces, i.e. the possibility of circumvention of spatial planning, it is indeed deregulation. But where this law was created, the authorities that are responsible for state security should enter, because as a result of the adoption of this law will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our country is being demolished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u552	The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u553	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are opposed as a club to refer this important project back to the deregulation committee. Two committees should be the right recipients: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government. Mr. Marshal, one more important issue - the procedure has been broken. Well, Mr. Marshal has obliged our two committees to give an opinion to the deregulation committee. I would like to say that, as committees, we did not really have the opportunity to present an opinion after the first reading. In fact, what happened at our meeting was a farce and a mockery. This is a bad practice and I would ask you to change it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u554	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of reassigning this project to the Extraordinary Commission would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 40, against - 371, holding down 1. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore decided that the Sejm should proceed to the third reading after serving to the ladies and gentlemen the table of amendments tabled. A summary of the amendments tabled was delivered to you for print No 2713. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u555	Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform submitted a proposal to reject the project in its entirety, because the law prepared by the PiS, a special housing bill intended to serve citizens, is a development law. It's not a citizen's bill, but it's a developer's bill. It's already called Lex Developer. The Act in no way guarantees the building of rent, social or municipal housing, but allows for building apartments and exclusive housing estates. The law allows space to be devastated, introduces regulations that burden the municipalities with the activities of developers, places private interests above the public, creates space for non-transparent activities and corrupt behaviours, has a negative opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and Self-Government, is also contrary to the idea that PiS himself spoke of. The project was aimed at people with low and medium income, and is aimed at developers. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club requests that the project be rejected [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u556	The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The modern one also applied for the rejection of this law. This law should be rejected and the CBA should examine the legislative process. We need to find out who really influenced the ministry to do all kinds of scams on this bill. You're destroying the government's efforts in spatial planning. By virtue of this law, you allow the de facto cancellation of spatial planning plans and the investment you want to make. It's just an outrageous recipe that probably someone has to stand behind. Because you're not afraid in art. 5 you are directly writing out who is probably behind this: owners of PKP land and military land, i.e. those which are now directly dependent on Minister Błaszczak and Minister Adamczyk. Minister! The Ministry of Infrastructure has often been involved in corruption, even in your day. This is another element. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u558	A representative of the Ministry of Investment and Development will be heard by the Secretary of State Artur Soboń. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law does not eliminate land use plans. Spatial development plans are in place. The problem is that they are valid under the current law for 16% of Polish cities. There are so many areas covered by urban spatial planning plans, very often especially in large cities, where the development of spatial planning takes years and years, and where every third spatial planning plan does not cover even 1 ha of land and is not any spatial planning, but the pursuit of individual interests. Why don't you ask yourself why today is urban chaos and why these plans aren't there? Maybe it's easier without spatial planning to fish in muddy water because the presidents, the mayors have spent... [[But who grinds the water?]] ...exactly 83,000 last year, sir. decisions on construction conditions, 83 thousand. [[But for what investments?]] In Warsaw, the President of Warsaw from the Civic Platform released 1473, in Lubin - 707, the President of Poznań issued 852, the President of Łódź - 1969, the President of... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ... Krakow - 1936, President of Gdańsk - 309, President of Bydgoszcz - 303. That's what I can say forever. This is... Turn to them. They're the ones that bring urban chaos that we end up with, because for the first time in this bill, we introduce urban standards and we introduce the necessity of a real... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...space planning, so that it can be used to build residential areas that are available, railway, rural areas, agricultural areas, industrial areas, post-post-office areas, so as to build faster, to build cheaper areas to build more. Thank you very much. [[I'd like to correct, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u560	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 187, against - 220, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1 in Article. 2. The question was asked by Krystyna Sibińska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If this is going to be cheap housing, change the definition of the investor and add that the investor is the person who will build in the form of rent, municipal or social construction. If you don't change that, you're just gonna confirm that you're dating developers to make it easier for them to build on their land. The apartments will be built anywhere, as long as they're not cheap. And that's why you're gonna do it to fill out the Moravian Prime Minister's slide tables. Support this amendment and then it will actually be the effect of cheap apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u562	The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u563	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Minister just said that the zoning plans are staying. And here full agreement, only it will be the same as with the constitution. The Constitution is, but you don't follow it. You're doing everything you can to get past their records. The zoning plans will be, but the developers will be following these plans as soon as they like them. And that's the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u564	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 159, against - 227, the 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 10 minutes off. [[Voice from the room: What? Oh, my.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 minutes 01 hours 21 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 29 of the agenda. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to point 3 of Article. 2. [[Game in the O.R.]] The question was raised by Maria Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. [[When you've calmed down the room.]] In the meantime, they will come together, Member. [[I want to speak to Members, not to the wall.]] You're welcome. [[I'll wait until...]] [[The Member may not want to ask.]] [[He does.]] But it's gonna take time. Begin. [[Game in the O.R.]] Please take your seats because the Member does not want to present her question. [[Mr. Marshal, this is a joke.]] Please take your seats and end your conversations. Madam, there you go, the question. Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u565	High Izbo! A lot has been said about the destruction of the legal system already today in the case of this bill. I wanted to tell Marshal Kuchciński, because I don't know if you know, Mr. Marshal, that there was also a wreckage of your decision. [[Voice from the room: What about this question?]] You have decided, sir, that this project, which has been examined by the deregulation committee, is to be submitted to the opinion of the committee of government and the Committee on Infrastructure. This opinion was not presented because the deregulation committee had completed its work earlier. Marshal, you may be surprised, but I defended your decision. I informed the chairman of the deregulation committee that he was crossing the law with the Members of the United Right. I would like to say to the Minister that if you are presenting data on building conditions in different towns, tell me the truth, tell me what time range you give. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because, sir, I have some information here about... They're absolutely different. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u566	The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed to this amendment, I have a word with Minister Sobonia. I have to say, as standard, you're a decent man, because when you look a man in the eye, you don't say a word. You obviously can't lie then. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Psychologist found himself.]] Where did you lie? I'll give you an answer. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 3 you have simply written down: housing or accompanying investment is carried out regardless of the existence or arrangements of the local spatial planning plan. How can you tell me that there are plans, how can you build whatever you want there, what's gonna happen to the developer? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u568	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. For - 151, against - 215, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. 1 and 2 in Article 2 5. The question was raised by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, This amendment we want to rule out the application of the law in areas that require special protection and where there is no great need for housing. Such areas are e.g. National parks. Why won't you agree to it? Or do you want to build an apartment in these woods? Is that why you created the Polish Wooden Houses? This bill, and especially its procedure, is another example of how you destroy the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u570	A representative of the Ministry of Investment and Development shall have the floor of the Secretary of State Artur Soboń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u571	I'll answer that. [[Voice from the room: Once upon a time.]] On the basis of this law, all areas protected by law are protected by law, even much more [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] than under other laws. Don't tell stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u572	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 154, against - 226, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 3 5. The question was asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u573	High Izbo! First, I wanted to address the Minister. Minister! The fact that there are no spatial planning plans throughout Poland is a fact, but in such a case it is necessary to discipline the municipalities, not to make this situation worse by adopting a project that will only deepen the chaos and actually cause spatial planning to cease to exist in Poland. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need reliable legislation. We are in favour of increasing the number of apartments built, but just as a result of a sound legislative procedure, not the adoption of a law that will destroy our space for many years, which will actually be impossible to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u574	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 157, against - 224, holding off on 29. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicants propose to add a new wording to the paragraph. Article 4 5. The question was asked by Anna Białkowska, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An effective housing policy must be implemented, but space must be rationally managed. It is not possible to create a legal gap which will result in fictitious investments, and therefore we propose to introduce an additional provision in an article that will be a specific fuse. If we don't bring him in, it's gonna end up like a law that allows trees to be cut out or an IPN law. After a few months, he will go back to the Sejm and create a scandal. If you have the opportunity to create a good law, take advantage of it immediately, without scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u576	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 156, against - 223, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. Article 4 7. The question was raised by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, land use decisions per generation determine the quality of life of the inhabitants, which is why it is so important to consult the local community. During the normal procedure of creating a local spatial planning, people have two dates in which they can express themselves. Of course, with regard to the specialty, it is definitely different. Hence, our amendment aims to give the municipalities more time to renegotiate the investor's proposal, who wants to make a housing investment in this special mode. I kindly ask you to honor the power of local communities to decide what space they want to live in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u578	A representative of the Ministry of Investment and Development shall have the floor of the Secretary of State Artur Soboń. [[After every question and still the same?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u579	Mr. Marshal! The residents take part in this procedure at every stage of the procedure, at the stage of adoption of the localization resolution of the city council and at the stage of granting the building permit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u580	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. For - 163, against - 229, with a hold of 24. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. In Article 19, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7. The question was raised by Mr Szczerba, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good change got us used to the hilarious situation. We all remember these pictures of the Prime Minister handing out the wrong keys, not to this apartment and not to this family in Biała Podlaski. [[Applause]] These are live situations taken out of the screenplay of the series "Alternativation" 4. We remember the Dreamliner Academy and the passengers waiting for their flight - situations taken alive from Stanisław Barei's film. However, this bill is extremely important, and this is a serious matter, because it is about our inhabitants and our cities. It was lex Szysko. So far, the trees are shaking and howling as they see their wrongdoer. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Cut.]] And now you're proposing a lex developer. Now that they've cut it out, they want to build fast, just as well as anywhere. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u582	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u583	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister and I would very much ask that the Minister be kind to answer. I wanted to ask whether this law, which some have already called a developer+, was agreed by the Joint Government and Government Commission or not? Was the opinion directly negative? And is it true that the local authorities have criticised the provisions of this law, indicating that the adoption of these solutions will lead to the further spread of cities, that they will bear additional costs for infrastructure, to the fact that there will be an uncontrolled disorder of public order in public space? I would very much ask that all these questions be answered by the Minister here, whether they really were. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u584	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Answer.]] [[Answer the Minister.]] [[So far, the minister's in no hurry to get to the podium.]] [[...we don't answer.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. Sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-eight-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to add point 13 in Article. 8. The question was raised by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Platform of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u585	High Izbo! In fact, Minister! The Minister says that residents will be able to participate in the investment process on the basis of this speciality. Why do you say that if you know perfectly well that they will, but to a very limited extent in relation to the current situation? Ladies and gentlemen! The result of this specialization will be the construction of housing estates in agricultural areas, in areas where our municipalities do not want to build, because they are very far from large settlements, do not have infrastructure neither road nor social. And it will be against any sense, but for the benefit of selected developers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u586	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. For - 163, against - 228, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. Article 6 17. The question was raised by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Platform. [[You're the one who's been digging into the CEO's things, you're the one who's been digging into the CEO's...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u587	High Izbo! The urbanization standards you propose in this bill are fatal. For example, Minister, new housing structures, and they will not be small, are to be operated by roads that are to have a minimum of 6 m. The Minister knows that at least 2 m will take the pavement. This is the consequence of allowing housing investments to be carried out regardless of the existence of local development plans or including in the process of adopting this law a deregulation committee which, in these subjects, neither me nor the corn. Do you know that, according to these standards, 68 presidential cities cannot build a building higher than three floors in this mode? [[Good.]] In 68 presidential cities. That's your urbanization visions. I'll say dwarfs. I wonder who you've been consulting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These solutions. [[Applause]] [[What's with the skyscrapers in the country?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u588	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 155, against - 226, the 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 18. The question was raised by Krystyna Sibińska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u589	High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Zalewska. Did you know that Minister Soboń will reform schools and from now on, after the law has entered into force, the schools will only be five years old because only five years will the developer sign a contract with the municipality to deliver the children to the school? What about after five years? I don't know what happened after five years. But you know, the developer might even sign that deal, but he's gonna sell all the apartments, then declare bankruptcy, the kids are gonna be out of school, and the community is gonna be out of school... [[No milk.]] ...and there's gonna be one big problem. So support this amendment, because this is the mob of potential developers' clients. Unless you've asked them out like that, Minister. [[Applause]] [[Don't worry, 300 PLN is enough. And 500 zlotys will still get paid for the baby.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u590	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. Sixty-sixty-sixty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty, 25-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty, The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 60. No questions? [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 232, against - 157, halted 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was raised by Mr Jacek Protas, Platform Club. [[Oh, the next one's here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u591	High Izbo! Minister! Whose interest is so important that you have decided to prepare a law that brutally, unguardedly interferes with the competences of municipal authorities, preventing them from pursuing a rational policy of spatial planning and real estate management? Why didn't you take into account the negative opinion of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission? Why didn't you finally refer this project to the committee of substance, the committee of infrastructure and the committee of local government, but to the deregulation committee? And finally, the cherry on the cake, the real Muppet show - the chairman of the deregulation committee asked the joint committee to deliver an opinion as soon as the process of examining this project has been completed... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u592	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u593	...really, Muppet show. On behalf of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'm filing a complaint against... [[Applause]] [[I can't hear anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u594	Mr President, you have exceeded your time. Please return to your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u595	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You don't listen to what we're saying about this bill, which, as I said, some people already call a developer+ or a lex developer, you might listen to people who took part in a public consultation. I'll quote you. We are now talking about the general... about the whole bill, so I quote: In general terms, the bill creates the impression of putting the private investor's interest above the public interest and even subjecting the latter to greater investor profits. This is a quote from a public consultation. Next: The bill presented by the Ministry contains a number of provisions which will irreversibly affect the spatial governance of Polish cities and affect the quality of life of residents and investments carried out on the basis of this law. And one more thing: The introduction of a law as it stands will result in a reduction in the role of spatial planning, a reduction in the role of residents in shaping urban space and subjecting planning processes to political will... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u596	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u597	...which leads to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Don't stop like that, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u598	Thank you, sir. You're out of time. Don't wave your hand around here. [[Don't scream like that. Mr. Marshal, this is very uncultural.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're pushing another bull's knee, you're pushing your knees with a bill that's not gonna prove itself, which caused total chaos in local governments. I wonder where your imagination has gone. I understand that you have a bit of a problem with self-thinking, you have to ask foreign entities about different laws, like the last law on IPN, but here the question arises: Who is really in charge of our country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u600	We'll proceed to the... Oh, you're still the minister, aren't you? Representative of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Secretary of State Artur Soboń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u601	Mr. Marshal! You can only talk in this House today about urban standards because for the first time in the bill we have introduced the obligation of urban standards. [[Applause]] So far, no developers have required anything, no standards. The road that the Member was talking about may be 5 m today, we are introducing a minimum of 6 m. [[Applause]] School may not be at all and there may not be any need to transport to this school. The altitudes could be anywhere... [[Voice from the room: What is this nonsense?]] ...just to refer to the so-called. good neighborhood under construction conditions. [[You don't know the bill.]] Why is this a deregulation bill? Because it will always take 5 or 10 years, as in Warsaw, to prepare a housing investment in this mode with the approval of the local government. That's why it's a deregulation bill. The good question was, whose business we're in. We are in the interest of Poles. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u602	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2713, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 225, against -184, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on facilitating the preparation and implementation of housing investments and accompanying investments. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u603	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, in print no. 2678, 2714 and 2714-A respectively. During the second reading, seven amendments were tabled, which the committee at the meeting recommended positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: And may I? Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u604	The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print 2714. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 131c (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 the amended Act on the provision of public-funded healthcare propose that the applicant delete points 4 and 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was raised by Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just adding money to the health system without rationalizing spending is just like filling a vessel with water, but a hole. Therefore, the aim of this amendment is to eliminate, in our opinion, unnecessary expenditure on two things, i.e. deletion of expenditure on a write-down to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification and withdrawal of expenditure on financing the Gambling Problems Fund. It's in this bill that you don't need. I'm just asking you to accept this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u606	The question was asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u607	Mr. Marshal! We all remember the protest of resident doctors - 40 days of hunger, negotiating Radziwiłł. He negotiated so much that he was fired. Minister Szumowski came, in the light of the cameras, to sign an agreement with doctors residents. It was due to be completed by July 1st. He didn't. He brought the law on 3 July and in the act he wrote rules that do not implement the agreement with residents. My question at the meeting of the Health Committee, whether the Minister of Health intends to implement the signed agreement with residents, was a clear and declarative response from the Minister of Health. This was a short answer, namely no. But luckily, thanks to the work of the Health Committee and the members of the Health Committee, these amendments were successfully voted out and implemented by the Health Minister's agreement. Minister! Mr Latos! I can't see you. You're hiding somewhere. May I? Yes, you can. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u608	Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u609	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Perhaps due to this late time, some opposition representatives do not understand what it is also about the preparation of laws by the government. From 8 February to today - this really is the express pace of work. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What about the IPN?]] [[Voice from the room: You can go faster.]] The Government Act, which has its own procedure, contains everything that could be prepared in the case of this law. [[You're amateurs.]] On the other hand, there are further talks going on, and I'm sure the Minister will be able to tell you about them, which are scheduled for next year. You should know that. [[Voice from the room: But how do you vote on the amendments?]] You should also know that your medical technology assessment agency, created by you, requires financial resources to save the billions of zlotys that are needed by patients. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u610	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. For - 182, against - 230, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 2 to 5 were submitted to the amended Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist. In the second amendment to the article. 16j applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was asked by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment 2, as well as other amendments, improves various faulty entries. This amendment prevents the Minister of Health from transferring less money to resident doctors on duty than the Labour Code provides. The question is, who will be affected by the transfer of funding to hospitals when it comes to their resources. For the treatment of the sick. Do we not have to say to the sick: medicus curat, nature sanat, with emphasis on: nature sanat, or that nature is to cure them. It's gonna mean it's gonna cure their nature. We will move to the time of Hippocrates, which is to the 1960's.C.E. 377 B.C.E. I call for this amendment and other amendments to be voted on. Failure to comply with all requests of residents will result in another wave of opt-out pronouncements. What about the sick Let the sick heal himself or not at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u612	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. It was 179, against 230, holding off on two. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 16j applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 178, against - 224, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 16j applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2q. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rule of law says no one should be a judge on their own. Therefore, the record... [[What's the rule? Who's writing this to you?]] Please don't disturb me. Therefore, in this amendment, we want the decision of the voivode to be taken by the doctor by appeal and complaint to the administrative court, not to do so by the voivode who imposed the penalty. It's pointless. By the way, the whole principle of social cooperation cannot be based solely on punishment, and it cannot be appealed. Referring to the statement of one of the Members, I would like to say that the bill is being examined for five months to be thoroughly processed, and that there is no problem over the system laws for 48 hours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u614	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 174, against - 229, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the article. 44. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was raised by Mrs Lydia Gądek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u615	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A doctor should be entitled to legal protection due to a public officer in the course of his professional activities - this is the amendment we propose. Ladies and gentlemen! We can't divide doctors into equals and equals if they're in danger from, say, patients rather than hooligans who happen in our work. Therefore, there should not be any differentiation between us, whether we perform these duties in the course of public money on duty, or we save lives in a different form. Therefore, I hope that, since the committee has recommended the adoption of this amendment, the General Medical Chamber has requested the agreement of residents, you will accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u616	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 177, against - 226, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. Za - 176, against - 225, with a hold of 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 4 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to give a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 176, against - 229, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the objectives of this law is to try to stop exodus from Poland by young doctors resident. And here I have a question for the Minister: What number of doctors of residents left Poland in 2016 and 2017? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Answer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u618	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2714 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 403, 6 was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and public institutions in terms of ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties (prints No. 2475, 2604 and 2604-A) - voting. With a formal request from Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. I request that this draft resolution be sent back to the committee and that it be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the legislative process. Well, what Mr Ast did during the committee's work was a regular cabaret. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the key amendment to this draft resolution was being examined, defining the scope of the work, the temporary scope of the work, when President Ast realized that his party colleagues were missing, he ordered a recess during the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He ordered a recess because he knew that the Members of the opposition had a majority. When his colleagues started coming together, he didn't finish the vote, he re-elected the vote. And once again, when he realized that he was still short of MPs, he didn't finish it again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The vote, he re-ordered the vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u620	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u621	...until it's over, until... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[You don't know the rules?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u622	Thank you very much, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] A formal request was made to refer the project to the committee. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to refer the project to the committee would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. For - 172, against - 229, 1 stopped. The Sejm's formal motion was rejected. I now ask Mr Wojciech Sharama to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Eight amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting these amendments and adopting a draft resolution - the whole. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u624	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution contained in the report in print No 2604. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. On the amendments tabled, the Sejm will take decisions by simple majority. On the appointment of a committee, in accordance with the Rule. 2 (2) 1 of the law on the Parliament's committee of inquiry, the Sejm shall take its decision by an absolute majority. In amendments 1 and 4, applicants propose that the committee examine the activities of public bodies and bodies between March 2004 and December 2017. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2, 3 and 5 to 7. The question was asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u625	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These seven amendments are precisely the time frame for this committee's work, which would be the time period for the committee to deal with. The years 2016, 2017 and these 2 years are a record gap in VAT, over 90 billion, the PiS-owska gap, 90 billion, [[Applause]] Your scam, your VAT gap. And you don't want to deal with this period. You're supposed to be bragging about the record VAT collection. If that's the case, why don't you want to expand the scope of this committee? Not much, this gap is growing in 2018. VAT dynamics - 2,8% , GDP - more than 5%. This means that the gap, your gap, the PiS-owska gap is growing and the PiS-owska gap in VAT, which is record-breaking and is over 90 billion PLN, must also be investigated. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u626	The question was raised by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, a PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u627	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment, tabled by the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, talks about the extension of the scope of the committee's work: from March 2004 to December 2017. My question to the Members of the applicant but also to the Members sitting on the right side of the room: What are you afraid of? Why do you not want the Committee of Investigation of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to examine the activities of your government - the current government and the Government of Law and Justice in the coalition with LPR and Self-Defense in 2005-2007 - as well as the end of the SLD and 8 years of the Platform's governments? What kind of fear drives you? What is it? What are you afraid of? What are you trying to hide from the public? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u628	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 175, against - 227, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In amendments 2, 5 and 7, applicants propose that the committee examine the activities of public authorities and bodies between 2005 and 2017. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 3 and 6. Mrs Mirosława Pampuch... Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, from the Modern Club. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u629	And here we are, Mr. Marshal gender is doing here in the courtroom. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With these amendments, the Modern has requested an extension of the period of work of the Committee of Investigation for the years 2005 to 2007 and 2016 to 2017, [[Applause]] because it was so strange that the PiS applicants covered only the period, and every month, from December 2007 to November 2015, and we all know that the VAT gap existed both in 2005 and 2008 and in 2016 and 2017. On the other hand, the President of the Legislative Commission against all rules, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the non-regularity has led to an improper examination of these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u630	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 2, 5, and 7, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. For - 172, against - 222, he abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 3 and 6 propose that the committee examine the activities of public bodies and bodies between 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2017. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The question was asked by Marek Jakubiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz15 project submitted on 15 September of the previous year assumed a date extension, which is today in your project, almost entirely rewritten. I want to tell you what we meant when we said we had to start investigating this case earlier, whether it was PIS or PO or anyone else. Well, there's a graph, a sequence of logical events, which is called VAT fraud. If we start testing him from the inside, halfway through the graph, we won't know anything. All we're gonna do is grab the bunny bunny. We need to find out how it came about and where the sources are. [[Authors.]] You clearly want to get rid of this country, but this is a cardinal error of approach to this committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u632	Mr Marcin Horała, Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Marcin, no mercy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to these doubts regarding the range of dates, I ask: Is it true that committees of inquiry are generally from investigating irregularities rather than from boasting about good actions? It so happens that in the area of tax collection, including VAT, good actions are when the gap is small or decreasing and irregularities are when it grows or maintains a very high level. In years... I'm very sorry, but it looked like this: until 2007, she was very small and small. [[90 billion.]] In 2007, governments embraced PO-PSL, the gap started to grow dynamically, to be record for several years, at record level, and since 2016 it has been decreasing again, and it is decreasing dynamically. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Lie! 90 billion.]] [[Don't lie, don't lie, 'cause you're in a black loop.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you're accusing me of lying, talk to the millions of families that get 500+, because this is from sealing the VAT gap, from what you'd rather leave in the mob's pockets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u634	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u635	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! If you don't understand why you should expand this period, I'm gonna explain it to you on the numbers right now. [[Voice from the room: Listen!]] Last year You've done a great deal of propaganda, saying it's like you're sealing VAT. And then it turns out that you've made an interim shift, you've changed the law, you've charged double payments for some periods. Today's situation is that for the first four months of this year, you have $52 billion... $57.5 billion in VAT, and last year it was $56.8 billion for the same period. What does that mean? That consumption and GDP are growing faster than VAT revenues. What does that mean? I don't know if there's any of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. This means that maintaining such a trend will make the VAT gap bigger this year, that you have not sealed anything permanently or that criminals [[♪ The bell ♪]] They found new forms of tax extortion. [[Applause]] [[That's not what our minister says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u636	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 386 Members voted. For - 163, against - 222, 1 holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. The 8th amendment proposes that the committee should consist of 11 members. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment speaks of the number of committee members. How did you come up with this from the PiS? The 230-person club will have five representatives in this committee, and the 130-person club will have one representative. [[Voice from the room: Good.]] That's what you came up with, isn't it? And you think that's representativeness? Well, I hope you're better off counting billions than five, because you can't even count to five. [[Applause]] In this committee we will talk about the fact that when in previous terms laws were passed, which limited the gap, such as a single control file, joint and several liability, reverse VAT, you did not support these actions, then you did not fight the VAT gap. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] That's the whole truth about the VAT gap. And today there's a record VAT gap of over 90 billion, and you're not gonna get away with it. 90 billion - there has never been such a VAT gap. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u638	The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15. [[In two years.]] [[That's not what our minister says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a report on the implementation of the 2017 budget. I have a fragment here and may read it: Despite the fact that according to preliminary estimates of the Ministry of Finance in 2017, the gap has been reduced, it still amounted to PLN 25 billion, i.e. 14% potential influences. There is therefore considerable scope to improve VAT collection in the coming years. And that's about 2017. Why are you afraid to study? What you did? [[Applause]] [[That's not what the Minister says.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[He can talk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u640	The question is asked by Mrs Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u641	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have bad news because the data I presented came from reports from the Ministry of Finance downloaded from Mf.gov.pl, so if you're posting wrong reports there, I can't help it anymore. On the other hand, you do not believe that your fellow Members have already asked me to check through the Demagog. pl and unfortunately it turned out that I was telling the truth, the VAT gap... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[No culture, no rudeness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u642	Member, but now we are talking about the number of members... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u643	But why did you turn me off already?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u644	I would like to remind you of what we are talking about, Member. [[That's rude.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal!]] I remind you of what we are talking about: an amendment that concerns the number of committee members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u645	We're talking about VAT.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u646	Exactly. Then stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u647	Mr. Marshal, we're talking about the most important thing: what years should be covered by the gap.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u648	How many Members are to be on the committee, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u649	If there's anything you want to explain...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u650	You've made a mistake, ma'am. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u651	...let me explain what's going on in the field of VAT today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u652	You've got the wrong amendment, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u653	No. [[Voice from the room: You've got the wrong function.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u654	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u655	The marshal doesn't know how to apply the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u656	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. For-- 156, against-- 240, two stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Mr. Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, joined the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u657	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you listen to what the Members of the applicant say, it may seem that this committee is unnecessary because the final report has already been written. So why don't we spare the taxpayers the costs and give up this committee? And the truth about your governments is that in 2016, according to PwC, the VAT-owska gap was 2,9%, i.e. 53 billion PLN, and in 2017 as a result of creative accounting by Prime Minister Morawiecki you have shown a gap of about 30 billion PLN. This is a total of over PLN 80 billion. [[Voice from the room: 39.]] 80 billion PLN - as you say very often, it is enough not to steal and it would be for the disabled. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[That's not what our minister says.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u658	The question is asked by Marek Jakubiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u659	I have bad information for you, especially for Krystyna Pavłowicz, that is what you have told the truth and it cannot be hidden. [[Voice from the room: That's the problem.]] [[Voice from the hall: And you are the Minister of Finance?]] These are data from the Ministry of Finance, not from you in the third row. [[That's not what our minister says.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that it's been a few months since we put together our project. I want to tell you that today we are going to vote on this committee, and we are condemning this committee to the elections three times in a row. We are about to have elections to self-government, to Europarliament and to parliament in a moment. I don't know what the intentions were to stall this committee for a year, I don't know why you've delayed all this, but I'm increasingly convinced that you have bad intentions on this issue. I don't mean, I think, to find the sources of the lost billions. [[Applause]] [[And that's not what our minister says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u660	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u661	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These amendments have not been tabled on the temporal scope of the committee's work, but we have nothing to hide and, of course, support the setting up of a committee on VAT. [[Applause]] We will also tell you during the work of this committee what your real fight against the VAT gap looked like - I mentioned this earlier: a single control file, reverse VAT, joint and several responsibility. And to this 90 billion from 2016 and 2017 we will return. Today, you think you're paying anybody's bills, but you don't know you're gonna be billing yourself in a minute. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u662	Mr Marcin Horała, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u663	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One thing to admit is that the tax system under the PO-PSL regime has been so deeply corrupted that in 2 years we have not been able to fully fix it, but we have managed to significantly repair it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Very important, ladies and gentlemen, first of all. Your achievements in 2007 and 2015 are a threefold increase in the VAT gap, i.e. a decrease in Poland in Europe in terms of VAT collection from 2nd place to 22nd place and in the opinion of the European Commission 250-260 billion PLN stolen from Poles. [[Yes, sir.]] And I'm very sorry, but she'll come to answer for it. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: 90 billion.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u664	We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No. 2604, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. The absolute majority is 199. For - 390, 3 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in the provision of State Treasury revenue in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties in the period from December 2007 to November 2015. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 2717). [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, Minister.]] Mr Marek Suski. You're welcome. A formal conclusion, I understand, in writing. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Quiet!]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u665	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I submit a formal request for a change in the voting method consisting of a separate vote on the change in the personal composition of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility and a separate vote on the change of personal compositions in the other committees. [[And how quiet it is.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm handing over the motion to your hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u666	Thank you very much. Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the Kukiz Club has withdrawn the proposal to withdraw from the Health Committee by Mr Jarosław Sachajka and Mr Paweł Skutecki. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? [[He doesn't want to.]] No one's checking in. A request was made for a separate vote on the proposal to change the membership of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 384 Members voted. In - 231, against - 149, 4 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are voting on a change in the composition of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Gabriela Lenartowicz to join this committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. For - 158, against - 220, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the offer. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Can Mr. Suski explain why?]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] We'll proceed to the vote... [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We proceed with the vote on the full proposal of the Sejm Bureau on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2717, excluding changes in the composition of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility and excluding changes in the composition of the Committee on Health, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 383 Members voted. For - 250, against - 118, the 15. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. [[You guys don't even count at all.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Three minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 08 hours 22 min 10]] I'll resume the session after recess. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child (print No 2422) together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family (print No 2573). I'm asking Mr. Mark Michalak's child's attorney for information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u667	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! There are no ministers. We're in a special place and time today. It was in Poland that international ideas for the rights of the child were born, which thanks to its initiative and commitment could be realized. In 1946, UNICEF was founded on the initiative of Louis Rajchman. In 1968 the Order of Smile was created on the initiative of the Polish child - the only award awarded at the request of children in the world. In 1978. Poland proposed the UN Human Rights Commission and presented a draft Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was based on the philosophical and educational concept of Janusz Korczak and was a reference to the 1989... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Speaking of which, Marshal, is there anything you can do about it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u668	Mr. Spokesman, just a moment, please. Mr. Editor, we're asking you to... [[Voice from the room: hello! Mr. Editor, you're interrupting!]] ...more quiet interviewing. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voices from the hall: hello!]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u669	I can, right? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u670	But please calm down. Now it's you, sir, who's bothering you. [[The voice from the room: There is so much room.]] Mr. Spokesman, continue your speech. And I ask you to remain calm, because now you are interfering with the Ombudsman's speech. Therefore, we proceed with the further procession. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u671	In 1989 the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted on the Polish initiative. Janusz Korczak is the foundation and binding of all actions. Janusz Korczak was one of the first in the world more than 100 years ago bravely and directly claimed the rights of the child. Today, with all my power, I would like to point out that here and now the fundamental educational, social, cultural and political problem is becoming a responsibility. It has different dimensions. We talk about responsibility for the world we create, we build, we leave it to our children. It is about a wise responsibility towards children, but it is also about responsibility as an educational idea, the responsibility of the child. A child in labor and responsibility creates his biography - says the researchers of childhood. It is not difficult not to notice the great, fundamental and necessary change in the approach to the child, to his person, to his rights, to the rights of the child - man. John Paul's words should also be recalled here II, who pointed out, admonished and admonished in the Familiaris Consortio's Exhortation: In the family, the community of people should be especially concerned about the child; deep respect for his personal dignity should be developed, and his rights should be honored and generously served. I pay attention to the words: to serve the rights of the child with honor. Eloquent, isn't it? With this thought John Paul II spoke to all of us. Janusz Korczak had already spoken about children's affairs in his day. He said: Next to a lawyer who knows the paragraphs of written rights, I demand a place for a educator who knows the mysteries of unwritten rights - as if he was asking for the creation of an institution for the rights of the child. Korczak does not elevate the child, but increases his value, discovers his human dignity, rights and citizenship of the child. Korczak showed children and adults what democracy and respect for another human being are. Parliament is called the temple of democracy, so it is necessary here today, when we are talking about the rights of the child, to remind it of its principles and values. Korczak has repeatedly said that democracy is a task for free people who do not have to walk with their heads down, who do not have to be passive, submit, just listen and punish them by following orders. Democracy is freedom, courage, boldness, assertiveness, subjectivity, self-respect and others. Korczak said: Democracy must be learned, democracy must be created, democracy must be fought for. It has to be made with children and for children. You have to give children rights, citizenship, protect their dignity. These slogans formulated more than 80 years ago still sound very innovative today. It's still a task and a challenge. In his most famous essay "How to Love a Baby, translated into many languages of the world," Korczak wrote: "I call for a magna charta libertatis, about the rights of the child." He mentioned the right of the child to die, the right of the child to this day and the right of the child to be who he is. In 1929 Korczak will add to this set of rights: The first, uncontested is the right of the child to express his thoughts, actively participate in our deliberations and judgments. Ten years later, he'll claim a child's right to respect. These rights Janusz Korczak placed as a task and challenge for parents, carers, teachers, educators, social workers, doctors, police officers, curators, judges, especially family, clergymen, journalists, officials and politicians. I also recall this in the context of the project Mon. The Children's and Youth's Seym. Almost two decades of the activity of the Ombudsman in Poland shows how the problems of Polish children change. Interventions related to the protection of the child's right to decent social conditions are increasingly rare. The first plan is: various difficult involvements of children in divorce situations, access to medical assistance, physical and mental violence, sexual abuse, negligence or carelessness, and the treatment of children in question. 2017/2018 is also an increased number of requests for intervention by the Ombudsman in connection with the implementation of education reform, to which I have repeatedly expressed my critical attitude as a spokesperson for the rights of the child. High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 12th Ombudsperson of the Child Rights Act I present to the High House information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2017 and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. I stand before the High House for the tenth and last time, because at the end of August my second and last term of office of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child passes. Decade of changes in the perception and protection of the child, childhood, rights of the child, subjectivity of the child, child's citizenship. The changes that are behind today are not only the spokesperson for the rights of the child himself, but a large group of familiar names and unknown people of various professions, with the highest scientific titles and best experience in social, professional and public work for children. During this time, a number of important changes took place at the initiative or with significant involvement of the Ombudsman in Polish legislation, including. strengthening the various forms of support for children and their families, strengthening the protection of the rights of children deprived of their ability to raise in the biological family, strengthening the protection of the rights of sick and hospitalized children, including the restoration of the medical document: the children's health book and the creation of a system for monitoring the fate of the child from birth, and the placing and leaving of a pediatrician in the primary care system, introducing a statutory explicit ban on the use of physical penalties against children, strengthening the protection of children against all forms of sexual abuse, which allowed Poland to ratify so-called. the Lanzarote Convention, the introduction of the concept of child's right to both parents, the strengthening of legal protection for child crimes, including the establishment of a child's priority, increased penalties for child harm offences, the introduction of a legal obligation for natural persons to notify law enforcement authorities of their knowledge of child harm, the strengthening of the protection of children's rights in nursing, educational, medical and socio-therapeutic institutions, the strengthening of the subjective treatment of children by individuals and institutions making decisions on matters relating to the child, the development of legal instruments protecting children's rights in an international colour conflict. In fulfilling the request made by the Polish Ombudsman, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, enabling the Committee of the Rights of the Child to adopt and deal with individual complaints against national infringements of the rights of the child. Today, consistently as a spokesperson for the rights of the child, I again call on the Polish Government and Parliament to ratify this document. [[Applause]] This expected decision of the Polish authorities is not a gesture, but an obligation which falls within the area of responsibility for children. A detailed description of the general and individual actions undertaken in 2017 is provided in the information presented to the High House. Therefore, here I will summarize and compare only statistical data for 2017 and the whole decade. A total of 39 182 cases were brought to the Ombudsman in 2017 and for 10 years of office - 331 381 cases. The Ombudsman addressed a total of 168 general speeches to ministers, bodies or institutions in 2017 and 1148 general speeches for 10 years, proposing amendments to specific provisions. In 2017, in 363 cases, the Ombudsman considered that there was a risk to the interests of the child in the ongoing judicial proceedings, so that he had taken part in court proceedings and participated in them on the rights of the prosecutor. Within 10 years of such accessions and continuation of accessions, there were 2104. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the taking of control measures. In 2017, the Ombudsman examined 291 cases at the place of the child's rights, and during the last decade of these checks there was a total of 1609. As part of the dissemination of the rights of the child last year, the Ombudsman met with 52 000. children and young people in Poland. During both my term of office, more than 487 thousand attended such meetings. Polish children. The honorary patronage of the Ombudsman was covered by 299 events in 2017. The sum of the decade is 1842 awarded honorary patronages of the Ombudsman. There are four important events that are the result of very good cooperation with the Sejm. I would like to express my appreciation for the right initiatives of the spokesman and the adoption of the year 2012 by Janusz Korczak, 2018 - the Year of Irena Sendler, the National Day of Preschool and the Polish Children's Rights Day. The information presented to the High House in accordance with the provisions of the Act covers five main areas of action for the protection of the rights of the youngest citizens of the Republic of Poland. These include the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science and the right to protection against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, neglect and other mistreatment. Janusz Korczak said to us in his will: "You must not leave the world as it is. In response to this challenge, after more than six years of very hard, social work set up by the Ombudsman of the Children's Rights Commission for the Codification of Family Law under the direction of Professor Leszek Stadniczek at the end of my second term, I will present to the President, Parliament and the Government a proposal for a comprehensive change of Polish family law, which aims to further strengthen the position of the child and the family. [[Applause]] Today, I would like to present only a fragment of the material developed, which was created through many reflections, analyses and compromises. The draft Family Code opens a preamble, which I will quote as it reflects the nature of the project as a whole: In respect of human dignity, the Republic of Poland protects the welfare of the child and the welfare of the family, supports the family, including marriage, and parenthood, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity creates conditions for the proper functioning of the family. Given the exceptional role of family law in the protection of the rights and freedoms of the child, family rights and its multifacetedness in the process of law-making and application: - having regard to the generally recognised values listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the existing acts of international law, in particular the natural dignity of man as a source of his rights; - acting for the benefit of the child and providing him with decent living conditions in the family, which is his natural environment and to satisfy his physical, mental, social and moral needs, shaping his personality; - having regard to the need to provide the child with an educational environment which guarantees him a comprehensive development; - recognising the family as a basic community of persons and a social institution; - with a view to strengthening the position and function of the family; - preferring dialogue and mediation as tools for resolving conflicts and family disputes; - having regard to the particular role of the family judiciary in protecting the values indicated and the need to implement and develop its ideas; - while respecting the axiological unity of the law and the resulting need for the coherence of the family's substantive, procedural and implementing law, the following is hereby established (...). In the new code, as the spokesperson for the rights of the child, I declare the need to move away from the pejorative and conflictogenic foreign concept of the concept of parental authority for parental responsibility, the proposed definition of which is: [[Applause]] Parental responsibility is the task, attitude and relationship of parents with the child, carried out with respect for his dignity and rights, in accordance with the socio-legal order. It is aimed at caring for the child and satisfying his needs, preparing for family and society life and fulfilling the maintenance obligation. It shall be implemented in particular by implementation [[♪ The bell ♪]] responsibilities and rights in relation to the care of the person and the property of the child, representation, personal relations, the origin of the child, his name and place of residence. It applies mutatis mutandis to persons who, by judgment of the court, are liable to the child as much as their parents. Power, power, man's control over another man, absolute obedience are concepts close to totalitarianism, objectification of man, enslavement, possession. They are not conducive to proper parent-child and child-parent relationships. In this document, as a spokesman for the rights of the child, I propose for the first time to introduce into Polish law the definition of the good of the child as a state in which the child achieves correct, comprehensive and harmonious mental, physical and social development, respecting his dignity and the resulting natural rights. This good is shaped in particular by positive family, personal and educational relationships. The draft code treats a child, in accordance with the Act on the Prosecutor of the Rights of the Child, as any human being from conception to adulthood. An important part of the opening of the new family code is the Family Law Rules, which I cannot even mention today due to the limited speaking time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u672	That's right, I'm gonna take a break here, Mr. Spokesman. How much longer do you need to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u673	Five minutes, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u674	You're welcome. I'm extending this time by five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u675	Okay, thank you very much, marshal. Janusz Korczak has always been insightful and critical in his analysis of the situation of the child and childhood. He asked directly: "Where did this malicious and cunning superstition come from about the happiness of children?" In his analysis of the reality of the well-being of the adult world, he wrote and exposed their hypocrisy: "To some extent it is more convenient for us to think that he is our helpless subject, boundlessly and hopelessly dependent on his random parents, rulers and masters, on their relationship, character, even whims. By believing that children are happy, we can naively harm them. Are such words foreign to us today? Do not those who question the protection of the rights of the child, the institutions guarding them, disregarding the child's subjectivity, the right of the child to citizenship and participation today interpret the same? But that doesn't mean they're right. It's a challenge for child rights defenders, children's friends, children's researchers and childhood researchers. As a spokesman for the rights of the child, today I call on adults to be responsible for the world that we leave to children. Just as Korczak onegdaj called for Magna Charta Libertatis, today I call for responsibility for the child and for everything that surrounds them. This is what the concept of the new family code and numerous proposals for educational and social activities are intended to serve, as presented by the Ombudsman's institution. The rights of the child are our shared responsibility - rulers, observers, scientists, non-governmental activists, teachers, educators. We can't fight for them, we can't insist that we don't ever face a dilemma that raised one of the biggest of us, rewarded by the children themselves in 2007. The Order of Smile - Irena Sendlerov, patron of this year. [[Applause]] Sendler said, "What about the world?" Powerful powers? The world was silent! And silence sometimes means consenting to what is happening. Irena Sendler's daughter gave me her mother's glasses so she could sometimes look at this world and see a little more. If any of you would like to see, they are at your disposal. [[Applause]] High Izbo! I would like to thank you for listening to a slightly extended and yet very brief information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017. I will no longer be able to mention them - I have always mentioned them - but they are included in this information. I just recently found out that there's a short time to 15 minutes. [[Everyone does.]] I mean... [[That's a very good idea.]] That's not a good idea. To conclude, I would like to thank you very warmly, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and people acting on behalf of the Polish State who, showing their concern for the youngest citizens, cooperated with the spokesperson for the rights of the child. I have here a long list of Members who wrote, intervened, asked me to take care of the affairs of their constituents. Thank you for your cooperation. If we could help, help, that's what this is all about. Thank you for the opportunity to cooperate and to have a real impact on increasing the protection of children from all forms of violations of their rights, especially in the fight against violence against children. [[Applause]] I express my gratitude to the whole community involved in the protection of children - from non-governmental organisations, through the world of science and education, to representatives of the media. I would like to address my colleagues from the Ombudsman's Office and those who joined our team in various ways and on the front. Without you, it wouldn't have worked. [[Applause]] In a moment, the person of the Ombudsman will change, but will remain to solve the everyday problems of Polish children. Stay on their watch, be courageous and enjoy your high skills, your highest competences as best you can. [[Applause]] By thanking you annually, at the same time I ask the High House for further kindness for the idea of protecting the rights of the child in Poland. Our country has invaluable merit in this field and I wish it always to bear the proud name of the homeland of the rights of the child. [[Applause]] Children need special protection and care, and their cases should be given priority. The measure of civil society and the democratic rule of law is undoubtedly the quality of respect and implementation of human rights, in particular human rights - the child. Therefore, I ask that Polish children always have the proper guarantee of protecting their rights from adults. I hope that the constitutional body for protecting the rights of the youngest, which is the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, will continue to develop and that the state, as parliamentarians, will ensure that it can continue to function smoothly. And finally, a little digression. Almost 30 years ago, as a very young man, I had the privilege of standing on this platform. At the time, I called for the exclusion of children from current political fairs, I asked for apoliticity and interpartyity in decision-making in children's matters. And it's up to date. That's what I'm asking for today, too. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up and clap.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u676	I think the Ombudsman will still have an opportunity to answer questions, because the list is already filled. Therefore, we will have the opportunity to hear the answers to the questions asked. And now I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u677	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation to the High House of the report of the Joint Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth of the meeting of 7 June 2018 on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The committee's report is in print 2573. The Marshal of the Sejm sent this information to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on 11 April 2018. Members of the Joint Committee, as well as invited guests, took note of the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, print No 2422. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 12 of the Ombudsperson's Act on Children's Rights, the Ombudsman presented information on his activity for 2017. We learn from the document submitted that a total of 39 182 cases were brought to the Ombudsman in 2017. That's $7,000. notifications less than in 2016. The Ombudsman addressed a total of 168 general speeches to ministers, bodies or institutions. In 363 cases, the Ombudsman reported in court proceedings and participated in them on the rights of the prosecutor. An important element of the Ombudsman's activities was the taking of control activities, which were in total 291, inter alia. in youth care centers, foster care facilities, schools, rest facilities for children. The Ombudsman participated repeatedly in meetings of the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland. He issued 74 opinions for various types of legislative proposals in 2017. The Ombudsman took the honorary patronage of 299 events and initiatives in 2017. The Ombudsman's information covered five main areas of action to protect the rights of the child: the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to education and the right to protection against violence. The document presented to Members is a comprehensive, 700-page and detailed material, a catalogue of cases completed by the Ombudsman's Office, as well as a list of topics diagnosed, which, according to the Ombudsman, must be implemented. Following the presentation by the Ombudsman, Mr Michalak took the floor in the discussion with the Members who participated in the committee's work. In view of the end of the term of office of the current Ombudsman, many speeches were taken as a summary and an assessment of the Ombudsman's activities. There were thanks and voices of appreciation. There were also criticisms indicating irregularities related to the performance of the Ombudsman's duties. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] The Commission adopted the information of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[You were on the committee, were you on the committee?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u678	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. [[I was.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a subject that calls for so much discussion, with so much emotion. Therefore, I will not pay any attention to you every moment, but I ask both sides to calm down. It is up to the marshal to keep order in the plenary room. Therefore, I ask you to do so. This way it will be much calmer in the plenary room. I'm opening a discussion. I invite you to speak on behalf of the Club Law and Justice of Mr Zbigniew Dolata. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u679	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017, which is included in print No 2422. The report, as usual, is very extensive. There are Members, Members who will make a point. Mrs Augustine at the committee meeting even said that this is a bit annoying because of the volume. [[I didn't say that.]] Last year I also had this feeling, but I found, once again reading into this obsessive volume, that it is good, that the spokesman is so detailed in relation to his activity, because it thus proves that he is not only an advocate of the rights of the child, but that he is part of the camp of total opposition to the Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Contacts.]] If we start speaking, like your spokesperson, from respect for the rights of the child to decent social conditions... [[It's better to be in total opposition than in total stupidity.]] ...and Mr. Spokesman doesn't see the 500+ programme, a programme that affects nearly 4 million children, 370,000. Children, 2,400 thousand. Families... Over PLN 50 billion, which went to Polish children, Polish families, virtually eliminated the problem of poverty, caused those families to invest in the development of children. [[Voice from the room: Not all children.]] If you were a spokesman for 10 more term of office, you would not do 1/100 of what the Government of Law and Justice did, what Minister Rafalska did for Polish children. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Have you read the bill?]] But the spokesperson spoke about the 500+ program in this information. What did he say? He criticized, and in a very determined way: Why does the government not include all children in this program? [[Voice from the room: Guy...]] [[Right.]] And who does your spokesperson have a bad relationship with? Quote: I must say that I have never had such bad cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. So bad answers, so arrogant, inadequate to the questions asked... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Why is that? Why? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you're lying.]] Maybe that's why, and it's also the Ombudsman's information that his main inspiration, the search for new ideas, is to cooperate with his counterpart in Russia. [[Voice from the hall: Are you not ashamed?]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] You inform the Ombudsman that on the action taken concerning children, he decided to address the Ombudsman in Russia because Russian society had encountered a similar problem before, so it was a basis for believing that effective methods have already been developed to address this difficult situation. Then he tells us what answers he received from Russia. What did the Russians do? What did the Russian spokesperson do? He ran the polls. Brilliant, we just wouldn't have figured it out in Poland. [[Voice from the gym: You guys sure do.]] At this point, the words from the iconic Polish comedy are pressed at the mouth: Direction - East! There's gotta be some kind of civilization out there. Yes, Mr. Spokesman, that was a great direction to draw inspiration from. [[The voice from the hall: You don't get it, it's too hard.]] Once, under the rule of the Platform, the State Election Commission was meeting with the Russian Election Commission. That was a great direction. But let's move on to the next issue. [[Voice from the room: It's outrageous what you say.]] [[Mr. Zbyszek, I know you have to say that.]] Further issues are the Ombudsman's comments on the respect for the rights of the child to study. I must say, Mr. Spokesman is consistently at war with the Polish school, he is at war with the teachers. Here, of course, the main enemy is... [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister of National Education.]] ... Minister of National Education. The Ombudsman has repeatedly dealt with the catastrophic events that were to take place as a result of the reform of education. [[Voices from the hall: And there it was.]] The Ombudsman says that systemic changes in a special way... [[Voice from the room: Who wrote this to you?]] I'm just quoting what the spokesperson wrote. That's what Mr. Michalak wrote to me. This is the author. [[Voice from the room: Go to treatment.]] [[Voice from the hall: These are quotes.]] System changes have particularly affected pupils in grade VI primary school. [[Voice from the room: True.]] And what did the spokesman say in these classes VI? He noticed that the schools were overcrowded, that the rooms weren't adapted. [[Voice from the room: True.]] This hasn't happened before. The spokesperson woke up the day before yesterday. He opened his eyes, he looked, and here the classrooms are full. [[Who took out middle school?]] Your marshal, perhaps your marshal would silence the room?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u680	Members respond directly to your comments, and that is all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u681	Your marshal, I think that's your job, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u682	And it's your job to move your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u683	But you can't stop me, you can scream, but your marshal doesn't do his job. [[Voice from the hall: You seem to forget yourself.]] And now why are you attacking the spokesperson...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u684	Allow me to finish this. Sir, wait a minute until I'm done, okay? Mr President, you are using a quick response method, and the other side is also acting in the same way. And I'm asking you to keep your voice down so we can hear each other. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u685	Mr. Spokesman is attacking these Class VIIs. [[Voice from the room: Tragedy.]] Why? That's because these Class VIIs are the result of the reform. And it fits perfectly into the narrative of the total opposition, that it is simply a scandal, that it is a fatal manifestation of the implementation of the reform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And now he's paying attention... It was the entire crusade of your spokesperson, wherever he could, a crusade against homework. [[Voice from the room: In defense of children!]] Teachers who ask home to do some work for their students... [[You're in seventh grade.]] ...have become the personal enemies of your spokesperson. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] These domestic tasks have such catastrophic effects as e.g. the inability of children to relax, the inability to participate in cultural and artistic life, the development of their passions. Children can't develop their passions today, children can't even lead an active family life. I wonder how my generation and generations younger... [[The voice from the hall: then you were not in charge.]] ...which had homework to do, we managed to... [[Voice from the room: You're not doing well.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to do this homework.]] [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] ...how we could go to the movies, to the theater. We did it somehow. Today, the spokesperson must fight the teachers who do it. Well, congratulations, congratulations. [[Voice from the room: You don't understand.]] But this crusade, this attack on teachers, has a very, very clear ideological purpose. [[Voice from the room: What?]] This is a rehearsal. The destruction of the school... [[The voice from the hall: The destruction of the school?]] ...school environment as an educational environment. And the spokesperson attacks mostly... [[Voice from the room: Stupid.]] And for that, you'll be on the ethics committee. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] That's what I'm talking about. And the spokesperson attacks mostly... [[The voice from the room: hide that finger, man!]] ...the application of penalties. It is a Copenhagen coup in psychology and pedagogy that you can raise without punishment. [[The voice from the hall: Well, you love punishment, you love it, yeah.]] All educators know that upbringing is skilful, just, reasonable use of rewards and punishments. The prize strengthens positive behavior, and the penalty eliminates negative behavior. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And that's how every teacher teaches... [[Voice from the hall: The ears need to be...]] ...and raises, and every parent teaches and raises. [[Voice from the room: Don't judge after yourself.]] Only the spokesperson doesn't know that. Only the spokesperson doesn't know, because the spokesperson... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u686	Thank you very much. Please take the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u687	Your Marshal... [[Goodbye!]] Please, I've been interrupted. [[No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u688	No, I'm not giving... I'm not prolonging your time. Have a seat. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u689	You've extended... Your Marshal, you've extended... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the Constitutional Authority.]] [[Voice from the hall: But this is the minister.]] You may not like my speech, but you've extended your spokesperson for seven minutes... [[Your marshal is in session. Sit down, sir. Your marshal is in session.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u690	Sir, but you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u691	Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u692	No, I'm not gonna extend it by two minutes because you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u693	Then please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u694	Sit down, I won't extend your time, because the spokesperson...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u695	Conclusion, conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u696	No. I can do that to Mr. Spokesman. I'm not prolonging your time, and I'm telling you that to each and every one of you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u697	... The High House...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u698	Please leave... [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal's Guard!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u699	...that, of course, the Sejm does not accept this...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u700	Please leave the speaker, sir, because I will have to take measures. [[Voice from the room: Kara!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u701	But, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u702	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u703	...we're very happy, we're very happy that it was... that spokesperson's speech, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u704	Mr President, please leave the speaker, because I will have to take measures against you. [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] [[Four times he asks you to sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u705	...a spokesperson who will actually... [[The voice from the hall: He punished the children, we already know that.]] ...he fought for the rights of children, and he did not participate in the actions of total opposition. We need a real spokesperson for the kids. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame, shame, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u706	I invite you to the speaker from the Civic Platform, Mrs Alicia Chybicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u707	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not agree with a single word that my previous speaker said, I speak not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] I would like to say from this point on that we are very grateful to the spokesperson, the true spokesperson of the rights of the child, [[Applause]] who always thought the baby was the most important thing since I've known him since the Order of Smile, defended every child and did it all those 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, in print No 2422, together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social and Family Policy, in print No 2573. And once again, due to the end of 10 years of hard work, I would like to thank you very much for working for the child. [[Applause]] Within the meaning of the Act on the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child, every human being is a child, from conception to adulthood. The Ombudsman acts to protect the rights of the child, in particular the right to life and health, the right to family education, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science, the right to protection against violence and cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. All actions taken by the Ombudsman shall aim to ensure the full harmonious development of the child and should be conducted with respect for his dignity and subjectivity. A special concern spokesperson surrounded children with disabilities. And it was Marek Michalak, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, who taught us, adults, that the child is not the property of his parents, that parents have no right to use violence against the child. Because it is, ladies and gentlemen, yes, if we think a child can be spanked, then I invite Mariusz Pudzianowski here to spank whoever thinks so. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And yet he sits.]] The Ombudsman carried out and carried out his duties by means of an office consisting of the following organisational units. Children's Phone of Trust and Interested Party Team. Children love this phone and use it very often. The task of this team shall be to provide information and support to notifiers and to carry out ad hoc interventions. The second team is the Task Force. Education and Education, whose tasks include: monitoring the respect of the rights of the child and intervening in matters relating to the respect of the right to education, care and education, access to cultural goods, entertainment, leisure, including in matters relating to sports, artistic activities, development of talents and interests. Many times the spokesperson of children's rights in such artistic events, sports participates personally, making these children very fun. Children like to be with him and like to listen to what he has to say to them. Another team is the International and Constitutional Affairs Team, whose tasks include:: study of Polish law in terms of its compliance with international obligations, in particular with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Conventions and Recommendations adopted within the Council of Europe, drawing up opinions on draft legal acts regarding their compliance with the aforementioned international law documents, analysing new instruments of international law, analysing government reports for international control bodies, drawing up opinions and proposals on the compatibility of laws with the Polish Constitution and international agreements and providing assistance to Polish children residing abroad and foreign children residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Another team is the Family and Minor Affairs Team, whose tasks include: monitoring the respect of the rights of the child and intervening in matters relating to the exercise and observance of the right to family education, residence in a foster family or a 24-hour care and protection of the child against violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other ill-treatment. Another team is the Social Affairs and Administrative Law Group, which includes tasks. monitor the respect of the rights of the child and intervene in matters relating to the respect of the right to decent social conditions and the right to life and health. There is also the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, whose tasks include the substantive and organisational support for the tasks carried out by the Ombudsman of children's rights, as well as the Administrative Team, whose tasks include the organisational and administrative and financial service of the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, as well as many thematic teams established over the years. Information about the Ombudsman's activities is extensive, I would say, a gigantic position that contains more than 700 pages. It raises dozens of issues, hundreds of problems in which thousands of individual cases have been described. If you really wanted to present these achievements, it probably wouldn't be enough for the whole day, let alone 10 minutes. Can the Ombudsman really be compensated for any harm that a Polish child experiences, any unfinished or unfinished business? The answer is obvious. The Ombudsperson of Children's Rights Act gave him powers of warning, signalling and initiative and gave him competence to present to the competent public authorities, organisations and institutes assessments and conclusions aimed at effectively protecting the rights and interests of the child. The Ombudsman may also request the competent authorities to take a legislative initiative or to issue or amend other acts. I won't be able to tell you about the number of cases the Ombudsman handled, but you heard in his speech how big the numbers were. As a Member, but also - and perhaps above all - the pediatrician is most interested in the activities of the Ombudsman in the field of health of the youngest. In this regard, the Minister has been calling on all the environments to improve the treatment of children in Poland with due care for years. The Ombudsman asked the authorities and institutions, in fact effectively, to take action on: changes in primary health care, access to pediatricians, absence of doctors on duty in connection with the termination of the opt-out clause, psychiatric care of children and adolescents, dental care, treatment of children with rare diseases, low evaluation of child health services, elimination of perinatal standards, including monitoring of children's fate, standards of paediatric care, preventive vaccination, protection of the health and life of the unborn child, increase in the price of medicines used in children after organ transplantation, limits on medical devices, treatment of primary medical emergency teams, extension of the basket of guaranteed benefits, hospital infections with multi-drug resistant bacteria, possible deliberate extension of hospitalisation time for children, the health of children of school age, the rights of minors of patients, health care benefits financed by public funds, the use of medical procedures and standards in the management of healthcare services, the functioning of healthcare providers, quality of care, the parents' stay in the course of their hospitalisation, the prevention of so-called sales. boosters, anti-e-dependence in children, contaminated air, children's use of solariums and children's safety on playgrounds. Today we are referring to the entire activity of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I am aware that we, Members, but also representatives of institutional actors, associations, local environments or simply private individuals, individualise this assessment depending on how a specific matter is dealt with. The vast majority of people I know are grateful and most appreciated for this 10-year activity. The Ombudsman has also repeatedly pointed out the issue of reducing the impact of education reform, which particularly affects seventh-graders. He also stressed the need to ratify the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the initiator of which was the Polish Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, for the first time in history. He also recalled the appeal to the government several times to prepare and implement a national strategy for combating violence against children, as recommended by the UN. Given the exceptional diligence and commitment of Minister Michalak [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I recommend accepting information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u708	Thank you very much. And please speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u709	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have here the development of your ombudsman, who has more than 700 pages. And the question arises of how far you can go in the field of reporting, how far you can bureaucratize the state and offices, including the Office for the Rights of the Child. The next question that arises is how many Members have read this book at all. More or less, we know how these documents are made in offices. Well, organizational cells submit so-called. The contribution, which is then compiled into one whole and we have an encyclopedia. We, as Members of the Committee of the Regions, expect a synthetic study that contains the essence of... [[One side, one side.]] ...the Ombudsman's activities and a vision of the office's future functioning. To move on to the report itself, I would say that many of the Ombudsman's interventions should be considered as justified as possible. The determination and stubbornness of the Ombudsman in the fight for the rights of parents of children in hospitals to stay free of charge with the sick child deserves to be commended. In this case, the Ombudsman asked the ombudsman and, above all, the President of the Republic of Poland to carry out an appropriate legislative initiative providing parents with the right to stay free of charge in the hospital next to the patient. The Ombudsman should also be commended for his request to the Prime Minister to develop and implement a National Strategy to combat violence against children. The fact is that such a strategy does not exist, and it would facilitate the fight against this phenomenon by state authorities and non-governmental institutions. Here our club does not fully share the position of the Ministry of Family and Social Welfare, which considered that the strategy was not needed. Well, surely such a strategy is needed and this ombudsman's request will also have the support of the Parliamentary Group I run for the highest purpose. The report states in the chapter on education that children should also be able to use properly planned and adapted activities as a form of support for their educational and integration processes. The question arises as to how this applies to the Minister of Education's regulation, which eliminates the possibility of organising teaching individual children in schools. For many students, this means reducing the number of hours of school and closing at home. This hits children with disabilities mainly and deprives them of their ability to integrate with their peers. I do not need to prove to you that contact with disability already at a young age teaches tolerance, empathy and cooperation skills. Mr Spokesman, what is your position on this matter, and what steps have you taken in this regard? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I also note the increasingly functioning cooperation of the Ombudsman with the National Public Prosecutor's Office. More often than once, the Ombudsman requests that cases be dealt with by the Department of Preparatory Procedure, which results in the convalescence of often erroneous prosecutorial decisions on child violence cases. A positive assessment should be made of the follow-up of the preparatory proceedings and the successful application of the Ombudsperson's Act to submit current information on the conduct of the proceedings, the factual findings and the request for information on how these proceedings are to be terminated. This is an extremely important signal, which should be expected from the Ombudsman, as well as accompanying criminal cases at the stage of legal proceedings, after bringing an indictment. I would like to point out that in a situation where the Ombudsman shows an interest in specific proceedings, law enforcement authorities explain the matter in a particularly thorough and in-depth manner. An increase in the Ombudsman's activity and involvement in more cases should be expected through the exercise of his powers and involvement in the case not only during the investigation but also after the conviction of the perpetrator of the offence has occurred when the child is injured. I often participate in cases where a child is victimized and decisions made by independent courts often have nothing to do with the child's welfare. Procedures make children subject to enormous stress and irreversible trauma caused by too long a period of investigation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said at the outset, as a Kukiz club15, we would like an essential report in the future indicating the directions, strategy and vision of the functioning of the Ombudsman's office. From this point on, I would like to thank the Ombudsman, as well as the Ombudsman's staff, for their work for children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u710	Thank you very much. Mrs Stępień will present her position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u711	Thank you, Marshal, for your voice. High Izbo! Minister! Invited guests! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the report on the activities of the Ombudsman, print No. 2422. Mrs Chybick spoke very nicely about this report. I'm totally signing those words. To be honest, I'm gonna touch some other areas. Indeed, the report is read with great pleasure and with great curiosity, it is indeed a comprehensive material, I absolutely recommend to everyone. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I am very sorry that you, Mr Dolata, have told such heresy. I don't think you have much in common... [[Voice from the room: With content.]] ...with what children expect. You may have a pedagogical education, but I'm sure you have no empathy for children by saying heresy. [[Applause]] But I'm gonna cut to the chase. The report describes in a reliable and comprehensive manner the enormous work of the office, which was led by Minister Marek Michalak. It's a small team that has taken thousands of interventions in areas where the child's well-being has been or could have been compromised. I'm going to start with a few statistics to illustrate the scale of the action. In 2017, nearly 40,000 children's rights were received by the Ombudsman. cases. The Ombudsman addressed a total of 168 general speeches to ministers, bodies or institutions. In 366 cases, he considered that there was a risk to the welfare of the child in court proceedings, so he took part in them on the rights of the prosecutor. An important part of the Ombudsman's work was to take control. Thus, in 2017, the Ombudsman carried out 291 inspections, inter alia. in educational, intervention and schools, always ready to provide support where necessary. In addition, it issued an opinion on 74 different normative acts relating to the work of the Sejm and the Senate. The most cases taken by the Ombudsman's office in 2017 were actions that responded to complaints related to the right of the child to be raised in the family. There were over 12,000 of them. The Ombudsman's office was visited by over 4,000. matters relating to the rights of the child to life and health. The Ombudsman intervened in general and individual cases. As far as general matters are concerned, he has sought, among others, to deal with matters of a general nature. leave the pediatrician in the POZ system and take care of all children, not only the youngest, with a higher valuation of dental and paediatric services. As a result of this, in 2018 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament The NFZ must finance all paediatric groups by PLN 43 million more resources. The Ombudsman also sought to improve the poor psychiatric care of children today. Unfortunately, there is still a lack of consistent psychiatric treatment for children and adolescents, lack of money and doctors. Okay. 400,000. Young Poles need the help of psychiatrists, while in the country we have only 400 doctors of this specialization, branches are closed. The high average age of doctors in this industry is also worrying. Today, it is a miracle to make a quick appointment of the child even for a private visit. This situation requires immediate corrective action by the Ministry of Health. The Ombudsman also took up almost 2.5 thousand. issues related to the right of the child to decent social conditions and almost 6 000. concerning the right to study. Here, for example. raised the problem of overburdening the student with homework. An extremely important area of activity of the Ombudsman was the problems of protecting the child from violence, cruelty, demoralization, mistreatment and negligence. These issues were the second largest group of cases dealt with by the Ombudsman. There were over 3,000 of them. That proves the scale of the problem. Although it was possible to introduce several important provisions in Polish legislation after the intervention and at the initiative of the Ombudsman to increase the protection of children, among others. a provision tightening the responsibility of the perpetrators of crime against life and health, freedom and family who qualifies offences because of the minor victim or a horrible way of acting the perpetrator, rules imposing an obligation under prison sentence to notify authorities of attempted or committed crimes against life and health, freedom and against sexual liberty and morals aimed at the welfare of the child. The child's rights spokesperson's calls to seal child protection against sexual abuse were realized. It is important here that employers are required to obtain information about persons who are to work with or have regular contact with children, as well as that the Ombudsman is required to impose a judicial ban on the occupations of upbringing or treatment of minors by convicted sex offenders. Previously, these provisions were optional. However, I would stress that there is still no mechanism for representing the child's interests in court cases where fundamental rights are decided. The Minister of Justice ignored the appeals made by the Advocates of both the rights of the child and human rights to extend the powers of a conflict-of-law curator, i.e. a court-martial in a situation where no parent can represent a child under their authority, for matters relating to deprivation or limitation of parental authority, so that the curator can represent the interests of the child and assist the judges in taking a decision in accordance with the interests of the child. The Ombudsman's demands were also ignored to appoint a professional representative of the rights of the child who could present the views and opinions of the child himself in court. It is the duty of the state to protect the weakest, and the state, instead of the victims, wants to promote violence. Public consultation on the amendment of the Law on Family Support and foster care is ongoing. If the law is amended by the Ordo Iuris Institute, supported by the Ministry of the Family, biological parents, including those who were taken away from children, e.g. Because of violence and severe negligence, they will receive a state-paid procedural attorney. So no one's watching the children's business. Meanwhile, parents, adults, conscious people already today can receive free legal assistance: a lawyer from the office and an assistant to the family. This also applies to those who neglected to do harm to their children for years who gave false hopes that their children could spend their childhood with their parents. It is also about parents who mentally harass children with promises that have different kinds of problems, e.g. It's addictive. And they shouldn't have a proxy today, they should have a prosecutor, for example, that they shouldn't destroy children. [[Applause]] There is no doubt that family is of great value. But why? Because family is mostly love, support, trust, not just genes and blood ties. I will ask you: Do you really believe that all biological parents should be given a second, third or fourth chance, even if it means taking away children's right to a safe, peaceful life, even if not in a biological family? So does the government, which was explaining to parents of disabled children a moment ago that you cannot afford to pay them 500 zł extra, want to pay another parent's proxy, and does not want to guarantee their children a representative who is their voice? Finally, I would like to thank Minister Mark Michalak for his consistent and full commitment and concern to fight for the rights of children, for defending their interests. You were not only a public spokesperson, you were from the heart. [[Applause]] You've set the bar very high. During these 10 years, you have been able to build authority, trust, and, above all, gain sympathy for your office. Today, Poles, including young people, know in what situations they can count on your help and where to look for it. They know they're not alone. My parliamentary club recommends that the 2017 report be adopted. I would also like to thank the entire team of Minister Mark Michalak for his really excellent work, for his willingness to help, for his openness, for the fact that it was always possible to address you with any matter, including in these less formal situations. You have responded to the invitations of various institutions representing the interests of children. The children were always very eager to come to you, to the people who were coming. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this I would particularly like to thank you and wish you both further professionally and on the personal path of success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u712	Thank you, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas wrote on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats. She also made a written statement on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. On behalf of the Liberal and Social Circle, Mrs Joanna Schmidt will speak first and then Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u713	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I will present my speech on behalf of the Liberal Social Circle. The circle is now 100% present in the courtroom. This is an expression of our appreciation, our sympathy. I'd like to thank you very much. I listened to your speech with great emotion. I was wondering if I could refer to Mr Dolata's statement, but to get over what I heard here... [[Snap out of it.]] Yes, I'll give you literally a few seconds. [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] You could tell you were a teacher. As you can see - you can make such a conclusion - you can be a teacher, you can be a teacher and you just don't like children. I don't know if the kids have been bothering you so much, or if you've been teasing them more. I wanted to start by saying that the reality that was in Poland 10 years ago when you took up this service, as far as our children are concerned, was completely different from the situation now. We can hear such words less and less often: it is only a child, because it is always a child. And you ruined it just here, as a Member of the Republic, so ridiculously speaking about the role of spokesperson. You don't recognize, you underestimate these changes in favour of the children that are now being made, the sense of dignity of children, the sense of security. [[There's something you didn't understand, Madame.]] The purpose of my speech is not to review your work, Mr. Spokesman. I would like - because the report was presented and my colleagues, my colleagues earlier referred very much to your report - using their time, addressing one area, one issue that is still taboo. I would like to draw attention to a problem that affects over 50,000 people. families, although actually estimates say that this number is much higher. It's about violence against children living in the so-called. Rainbow families, that is, in families where there are two moms, where there are two dads. These aren't good times for... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Your ironic laughter really just taunts the Sejm and all of us Members. These are not good times for liberalism, for freedom, for tolerance, but in such times we are subjected every day to this PiS interpretation about how to live and what decisions to make. And this is the voice that we want to make clear. We are increasingly witnessing violence related to sexual orientation of children or their parents. As I have already mentioned, in Poland it is often forgotten how many children live in such rainbow families. These people live mostly in hiding, do not reveal their family situation, mainly for fear of the welfare of the child. There are no mechanisms to protect children from discrimination and homophobia. I've learned a lot of tragic situations and stories about these children. I took part in conferences, meetings where the parents of the children were able to present what situations they were meeting with on a daily basis. Often this is simply due to a lack of consciousness, not always because of bad will. This is my question to you, Mr Spokesperson, that you should refer to this today, what can be done now, during the rule of law and justice, when we have no reason to believe that this government will see such problems. I will not develop the subject, because Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus still has her time. Thank you very much. Once again, my compliments and thanks to the whole team. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u714	And the minute left for the Member. Yeah, that's what's left. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u715	I've got a minute. Mrs. Marshal! Members! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen of the staff! In fact, I will change my speech, because after Mr Dolata's speech, we must respond to it. I am so sorry, sir, and I am so sorry that you had to listen to what Mr. Dolata said from that speaker. And Mr. Dolata. Mr. Dolata, if foolishness had wings... [[You'd be flying by now.]] ...you'd fly like a dove in this plenary room. It was an outrage, what you said here. Do you know who's hurting the children the most? Adults. You're just as grown-up as you are. Wake up from the lethargy. You live in the 19th century. What you've been telling here is outrageous, disgusting and insulting. Once again, I would like to apologize for what you had to hear here today. Of course, we will be in favour of your report as close to Liberal and Social. And we wish you and you all the best on a new road, which, I hope, is spreading wide in front of you. You will also be an example, I hope, for other employees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u716	Before we proceed with the questions, let me just say that the report is not being voted on. The Sejm merely states at the end, in the words of the Marshal, that it has read the information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. It'll be at the end. Now, let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign up? You're welcome, but you're still an MP. After this entry, I close the list. We're starting to ask questions. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, begins. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u717	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, In just one word, I will refer to this debate, these words about penalties and rewards. Prof. Maria Szopatkowa said: Without love there is no upbringing, there is a trainer. [[Applause]] And one more word: Children who cannot defend themselves must be taught to love and empathy. When they become politicians, they will rule so that the world is better. That's how I started building heart education. [[Applause]] Mr. Spokesman! The master of this teaching of the heart continued. You took over everything that was best after Janusz Korczak, after Professor Skopatkowa, after the fantastic people who always had a heart in the spotlight. You were passionate because the children were the center of your attention. You fought for the right of children to respect, dignity, love. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to say this: you were a professional civil servant, partyless, active. Thank you very much for these 10 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u718	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u719	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've been in office for the last 10 years, two terms. Before that, you ran a non-governmental organization to help children for 21 years. You are undoubtedly the most experienced advocate of children's rights, and you are undoubtedly an expert in the protection of children's rights. Tell me, because soon we'll be choosing your successor, what qualities he should have, what interpersonal skills, what social competences a reliable, good spokesperson for the rights of the child. One more question. You're finishing your term as a spokesperson for the rights of the child. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please tell us what the most urgent matters of children still need to be solved. and in which areas there is still much to do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u720	Ms Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u721	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm addressing the Minister, but I'm talking to the whole team. I'm very happy: these two terms are to build a brand of a child's attorney, a real brand, such a brand, [[Applause]] which recognizes children all over Poland because you have traveled all over Poland and children will recognize you absolutely. This is at the same time the education of parents and the whole community, because the Year of Janusz Korczak and the Year of Sendler Irena is a beautiful lesson of this Korczavian pedagogy and how we should treat children, how we should behave. There's been a lot of talk here today about the Minister of Education. I want to thank you for one important thing. When the Ministry of Education did not stand at the level of the task and cut the financing of the phone trust, unless only because it was done by a non-governmental organization, your phone of trust was, is, and I very much hope it will be. I want to ask you because you said in your speech that a lot [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have a vote on the deformity of education. What are these voices about, and how do you judge what is happening to seventh graders today? I know you've done some research. We are very interested in the results of these tests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u722	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u723	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Spokesman Dear! I hope I don't get punished. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I wanted to thank you first of all, sir... [[Voice from the room: Kara.]] [[Voice from the hall: There will be punishment, oh.]] I can handle it. I wanted to thank you, first of all, for the part of medicine in which you were very involved, for bringing back the concept of a pediatrician's need from the moment of giving birth to these most difficult periods of young life. At a time when these children needed medical attention, they were not always assured of pediatricians, because they were being pushed sideways at a certain time. There is little time, but first of all I wanted to thank the Minister for the act on the ban on solariums for children up to the age of 18 - the law, which you were the author of, which for many years bounced from wall to wall, the PiS ministers did not want to accept this law into legislation. This bill was passed last year, and I thank you very much for it, but the medals were attached to each other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Spokesman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u724	Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u725	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to express my deep respect for you and your team, thank you for your contribution to the fight for dignity and the rights of the child. I would like to say that you are a very good brand of Poland in the world, because you are promoting the idea of Korczakowska in Europe and around the world. Unfortunately, these good brands have been getting less and less in recent years. It's you guys. I wanted to say to Mr Dolata, "Why don't you come to the Opole Voivodeship because there are friends of your spokesperson in schools. Maybe you can learn from the teachers at Nysa Elementary School because they're there. Smart people, how to work and approach children. And here's my question. Many things you have done, many times you have asked the Ministry of Health to intervene in matters of psychiatric and psychological care for children. As you are today assessing the results and whether the Ministry has actually fulfilled your expectations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and above all, did it satisfy the needs and meet the expectations of Polish children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u726	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u727	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you, based on your experience, what is the scale of taking children away from parents because of poverty? Over the past few years, we've heard bad judges, bad social workers take their children away from their parents because of poverty. Even rules have been introduced to prevent such situations. Please tell me, based on my experience, what is the problem? What was the problem, and what is the problem now? Did you investigate those cases that were so loud in Poland? Because I think we need reliable knowledge about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u728	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u729	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! For starters, thank you for those ten years of beautiful work. Today, you called in the person of Mrs. Irena Sendler, the mother of a thousand children, who had just saved thousands of children during the war, and after the war she created the homes of the child, the ambulance, and worked with the mothers of the social margin. You were lucky to know her personally. What do you think Irena Sendlerowa would like to do for Polish children today, what she would fight for today, what would hurt her most and what wouldn't she want her to do? And finally, after Mr Dolata's words, fear to fear. How will your successor be able to work, or will he be able to take real action for the children? After all, from what you said... He's gonna have to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] give peans about the PiS government. I'm really scared... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u730	Thank you, Member. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u731	Mrs. Marshal! Fellow Members! Minister Very Dear! [[Voice from the room: Kara.]] I had the privilege of recommending you to this position 10 years ago, and I must say that it was a much happier moment than today, when I have to tell you: goodbye, from this function and from here. But I'm convinced that both the group of people you've gathered around you... Because your specific characteristics have caused so many people to want to work for children with commitment and, what is there to say, volontaristically. With all your employees, you've done an unbelievable thing. First of all, thank you for these few hundred thousand, ladies and gentlemen, I do not exaggerate, individual cases and restoring a smile to single children, because wherever they were wrong, there in individual cases they were, with the spokesperson Michalak at the head. Thank you so much for Janusz Korczak, for Irena Sendler, thank you for the child [[♪ The bell ♪]] He became an actor again, not an object of action, because he has rights, obligations, that he knows and we parents know that. You didn't just love your children very much, you loved them and you loved them wisely. I very much hope that this is the beginning of your role as a European Ombudsman for the rights of the child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u732	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u733	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is important to refer - I cannot remain indifferent - to Mr Dolata's words. But I won't be hard... It's just jealousy. Everyone wants to be like the Minister, [[Applause]] have such contact with children, have such contact with young people and have such achievements. For you, for the whole team... You can calmly say that you have saved the children and finished the race - this is your huge success. I wanted to ask you, Minister, because for so many years in this House there was such a day of joy when the children were in control of this House, and unfortunately not this year. Did Marshal Kuchciński explain his decision? Has the Minister succeeded in creating these children a substitute for such a day of parliament? Are these children leaving Warsaw after this meeting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did they have a good impression? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u734	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u735	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Before I put a question to your spokesperson, let me give Mr Dolata a second because he satisfied my curiosity. [[Voice from the room: Waste of time.]] I was wondering why you planned this meeting so late. Today I know that in broad daylight we wouldn't be able to listen to this bullshit, [[Applause]] 'Cause that bullshit couldn't even listen to your friends - they weren't in this room. I propose to you, Mr Pierce, instead of telling such nonsense, to go and listen to what children think of the Ombudsman. Because I, on behalf of the children of Głogów, wanted to thank the Ombudsman for many years of help and support in the fight for their health and life. I am convinced that there are many thousands of such children throughout Poland. This shows that you have a great deal of empathy, you have a great deal of knowledge about their needs. We have repeatedly used your knowledge and empathy in the legislative process. It is thanks to this knowledge and your ideas that we have created legal solutions that have secured the proper needs of children and their safety. That's what I wanted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u736	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u737	Mrs. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u738	Not yet, my fellow Member, in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u739	Oh, I'm sorry. First a friend from the club, and the next person will be you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u740	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! These ten years of yours are my ten years in the Seym. I'll be moved now, but thank you so much for every year, for really great years of cooperation. Thank you not only on your behalf. You know I thank you on behalf of my city: teachers, children, curators, educators. Today, looking at Mr Dolata, I thank you for your incredible class. You are a man of extraordinary culture, of high culture. It's very obvious, it's been very successful in your work, because your children just love you. And to you, Mr Dolata, let me quote something. You said something like that: if for another ten years, in the next term, the Minister was a spokesperson, he wouldn't have done as much as the PiS would have done. Thank God. Because I really thank you... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let's just stick with this, it's really... That's what we need to encrypt. But I'd like to ask you something, Minister. I just have to ask this question because I think, Mr President, that you do not know each other completely, and you do not know what you are talking about at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u741	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u742	In a family that has a income, I don't know, 10,000. On a personal level, have you met with violence? Have you met violence in a wealthy family? Is social security, material status a derivative of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u743	And now, please, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u744	Yeah, I'm done. ...no violence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u745	And now Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u746	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u747	...she'll have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u748	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To this day, I thought there were no irreplaceable people. I was wrong, Minister. [[Applause]] You're an irreplaceable man. I know that because I raised 12 children. Mr. Dolata! I had respect for you as an envoy. You're nothing. I'm sorry, but that's the truth. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've worked with a child's attorney for a short time, but I wanted to say that I've never seen a man who has so much empathy, such a love for children. This is really hard. Only a man with a big, huge heart can love a stranger's children. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I ran out of this room because I wanted to surprise you. It's hard to get flowers now, Minister, but with all my heart... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u749	The next person asking the question will be Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. And I would like to ask that we spare ourselves just as we have just said and kept - for the sake of person and merit - the proper level of this discussion during this time. Please, Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u750	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The great move taken this year by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child was to support the initiative related to the unpaid stay of parents of sick children in hospitals. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child, in cooperation with the spokesperson for the rights of the patient, shall act to exempt the parents of the child from the need to pay additional care for the parent of the sick child. I wanted to ask you how many hospitals have so far given up charging for their parents' and their loved ones' stay during their hospitalization. If you have such information, please tell me when the Ministry of Health has prepared appropriate changes to the law in this regard and have a chance to go to the Sejm. In conclusion, I would like to express my respect and appreciation for your Ombudsman and your colleagues and thank you for the great work you have done for children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u751	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u752	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Spokesman with the team! I wanted to tell you: a woman came to me who was crying. Her son was wanted to take the baby. Grandparents had a case in court, they couldn't be foster parents. I had no one else to go to. I went to see you. Your intervention and the assistance of your office, your participation in the case, has caused parents, grandparents to be foster families. They were crying, they were happy about the decision. They love that baby. That's just one of the examples you've intervened with. I think such families, such things, such tears of joy are very much. You had to do it with a modest budget. Over the past few years, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've had your budget cut. For the great heart for children, for children for whom you are an example, as well as an example for us, I would like to thank you, Minister, to the entire team of the Ombudsman's office, very, very warmly... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u753	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u754	...and the grandparents who can take care of their granddaughter today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u755	Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u756	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I wanted to ask, because you had relatively little time for such a fantastic activity... These 700 pages cannot be summarised within 15 minutes, despite this extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u757	It's not 15, it's almost 25, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u758	Almost 25 isn't, either. I would like to ask you about international activities, how children's rights in Poland are respected against the background of children's rights in the European Union and in the world. Now maybe a little private. I wanted to thank you on behalf of my children fighting for their lives with cancer, who have been able to count on your help many times over the last 10 years. Whatever was wrong, it was known that the Ombudsman's response would be immediate - and immediate. And I'm gonna let you finally give me a hug from those kids. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u759	And I will invite Mr Wojciech Wilk from the Civic Platform to attend this time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u760	Dear Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his report: and this is today's report here in the Sejm, and this is presented to us in writing, very comprehensive, but full of concrete and very substantive content. Both shows how important the Ombudsman's role is and how much work, how much work you did yourself, not only last year, in 2017, but also throughout the entire term of office, and in this and in the previous one. On the other hand, my specific question concerns your speech of 10 July 2017. It concerns sales of so-called. The boosters. You're directing them to the Minister of Health. It calls for the Ministry of Health to take more dynamic measures to update the lists of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances so as to limit the placing on the market of illicit substances by updating the lists on an ongoing basis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, of course, hand them over to the service that fights the boosters. Maybe I'll cut it short, 'cause time's running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u761	He's done, sir. He's done.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u762	In your report, you provide some facts and some data, but could I ask you in writing to provide me with more concrete data on the response of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u763	Here you are, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u764	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your Ombudsman about the following matter. Namely, throughout all the years of your term of office, the institution, i.e. you, as a spokesman for the rights of the child, have been insisting that the rights of all children, regardless of nationality or origin, including minors living in Poland, as well as those who are unsuccessfully trying to cross the border of the Republic of Poland with their parents, seeking de facto refuge from persecutors. I would like to ask: With what result? And one more question. I would like to ask: Which of the Members of the PiS made the most of his interventions to you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u765	Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u766	Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! The last 10 years, when you were - you are, yet, a spokesperson for the rights of the child - this is also a period of technological development and the risks associated with it. In your report, you note the risk of e-dependence for children, but as if you do not notice the great problem involved, i.e. increased availability of pornography. Studies show that more than half of middle - school children use pornography. [[There's no middle school.]] Okay. 30% of boys this age are already addicted to pornography. Do you think we need to fight this? Do you think there is a need for legislative action? And I'm asking you in writing to tell me if you've taken up this subject in your 10-year activity. And one more thing. In this room. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a lot of ladies on the left that trust you. Please take advantage of these recent months, as well as this speech today, and convince them that the child before birth is also a man, a child to whom all rights belong, a right to life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u767	Please, Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u768	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The best witness to this beautiful 10-year service for children and families is that so many Members before midnight, after the votes, which, I assure you, does not happen, wanted to stay and thank you. You don't need a better witness. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] The Minister can see who's sitting. I would also like to thank your marshal for his kindness. Mrs. Marshal! It was very important to us and very kind of you to give us the Minister for a longer period of at least 10 minutes. I also wanted to congratulate you on being able to persuade Pope Francis to accept the Order of Smile. [[Applause]] We know that the Pope does not accept any awards, but who, if not our minister, has done so? You have been effective in all your actions and for this chapeau bass, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u769	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u770	Dear Marshal! Minister! I'm not gonna be an explorer here. I'm gonna join in with these excellent congratulations. You're a man of the brand. You can absolutely walk with your head raised. I'd like to thank you very much, but above all, your excellent team, who is with you today. [[Applause]] Of course, I am very sad that the Law and Justice, the ruling party, has set up an MP who has become a disgrace today. All of Poland will probably see it. I am also sorry for another reason: your report, which is so important when it comes to children, must be heard at an hour. At 12 a.m., on empty government benches, there's no one... [[PiS-u.]] ...and by the empty room. That, of course, gives a big question mark. I'm so worried. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the end, what right hand of this room will the new spokesperson choose for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u771	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome, sir. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: New spokesperson?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u772	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First, the corrigendum. As regards the health protection law against the consequences of using the solarium, it was initiated by Mr Kazimierz Moskal, who was sitting here, who had been on the subject for a long time. I wanted to point out that the Platform was eight years old to make a bill like that. She didn't. It was adopted in 2017. It's the title of correction. On the other hand, I have a question for your spokesperson about why he doesn't like teachers so much, because teachers have such conviction. [[Ask the Minister.]] Perhaps this is due to some personal experience, the teachers have such conviction. In fact, you don't know what to do, because if teachers react in difficult situations, then you intervene, you demand disciplinary action, and if you don't react, it does exactly the same thing - that is, you don't know what to do, react or not react. [[Voice from the room: You have to be wise.]] Another question. Do you have the courage to force teachers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] medication or taking certain medical procedures that go far beyond the responsibility of a teacher towards children who are chronically ill, and which can do more harm than good? The teacher doesn't have...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u773	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u774	...obligation to take such measures, and your spokesperson has no right [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That's what teachers require. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Children with disabilities in their homes are sitting because of you. They take away their right to individual teaching in schools. Because of you!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u775	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Liberal and Social. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: You had an opportunity to explain yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the term of office of the Ombudsman. Therefore, let us be serious because of the fact that this applies to children. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u776	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Spokesman! Second time: Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you, Mr. Dolata, why you don't like people so much. Answer that question tonight when you get back to your hotel room. Mr Uściński! Mr. Spokesman doesn't have to convince us of anything. We're all grown-up people, we have brains, and we make our own decisions. And I'm sending you back to biology books if you haven't read it. Really, reading with understanding is sixth grade. [[Voice from the Chamber: And you are referred to the Ombudsman's report.]] Mr. Spokesman! I have a question for you because you mentioned the ratification of the Third Protocol: Has anyone on the government's side even taken an interest in this? Will something happen to this in the near future? I don't have so many kids. as Henry Krzywonos, I have only three children, so as a messenger, but also as a mother, thank you very much again for your work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u777	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u778	Dear Marshal! Dear Ombudsman and Visitors, High Izbo! Maybe I'll repeat the question a little bit, but I have a broader question. Why doesn't the government want to ratify the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child? And the second part: What is the situation at the Terpol-Brest border? Is it true that the Border Guard is questioning mothers, children, about fulfilling the conditions for being a refugee? Is that in your view a violation of the UN Convention and an unworthy use of customs services? These people are just running away from the war. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u779	Thank you. The last question to the Ombudsman will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u780	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't know if the civilized world talks about such important things at midnight. In five minutes, it's gone. [[Voice from the room: About the children.]] ...hundred o'clock. 0. It seems to me that it is not that such important matters are discussed during the day, when you can calmly, normally talk about important matters, because children's rights are important matters. I think we're all aware of that. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] I have to say, there's no one from the government. The question is why there is no one from the biggest party today who is responsible for how the state deals with children, helps, supports the process of upbringing, helps children, protects their rights, there are four Members. This is not a good testimony, I must say. On the other hand, I wanted to address to your spokesperson, first of all, thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For all the work you've done. Also for this concern about stupidity, which was included in school regulations. She's just arrived. You've been very, very active in this matter. I want to thank you for that. I want to ask you what kind of action you've taken to face such events, such areas that appear now, which is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u781	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u782	...parent abductions and issues of minor foreigners who live in Poland. And I have a favor to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u783	Come on in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u784	I'm almost done, Marshal, last sentence. If you would be kind to mention, point out from this entire catalogue of important issues that need to be dealt with and which are mentioned in the report, three of the most important, urgent issues that we should pursue. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u785	I invite Mr. Mark Michalak's Child Rights Officer to answer these and previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u786	Even before the spokesperson goes: I apologize for being so emotional, but I have two sons and I know that what you're doing is really important for children and their parents...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u787	Mr President, please give us the speaker so that you can answer the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u788	Mrs. Marshal! First of all, thank you very much for the opportunity to extend a little bit of this time, but it's really hard to close every year in 1.5 minutes. Because it's a year of hard and hard work for the whole team. Your marshal will allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u789	Mr. Spokesman, I didn't come up with those rules, but they do, and we have to follow them in this room. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u790	I didn't know, but anyway, I'm grateful because it's for the kids we met and they're the ones we're talking about, and they're important to us. That is why I thank you all for this concern for children, for those who are, and I see that this coincides mostly with my list of Members who work with the spokesperson who write, alarm, demand, and mobilise us to act better. Thank you very much for that. There was a question, perhaps I would start with this, which of the members of the governing party most often wrote to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I can tell you that, but I've got it written down. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński was the most common person to address requests to the Ombudsman. [[Voice from the hall: Uh... Dolata!]] I have here a list of 40 Members who mostly spoke, were interested, asked. Mr Dolata is not on this list. [[Applause]] [[So what?]] I'll start from the inside, but I'll try to answer the questions. When you ask questions, don't make questions on behalf of someone. It is better to ask, to have personal courage, to ask on your behalf, because the number of teachers who ask for the help of a spokesman, the number of those who declare cooperation, who take action and really have the heart, Mr President, is enormous. Huge, they're sensitive people, and they know they have a friend in the spokesperson for children's rights. [[Applause]] Those who are oppressors are afraid. But the spokesperson is to admonish and admonish, to take action to improve the situation of children. You've given a lot of false information, but I don't want to waste that time right now because it was here... [[From your information.]] No, please read with understanding, if you don't, ask your friend for help, because I really... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] This is good information, prepared by a very competent team of people, but for people who can read. [[Don't insult me.]] There's been a question several times...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u791	Mr. Spokesman, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. We are talking about children and the spokesperson of the rights of the child, so let us not react like this or not comment on one another, because it lowers the standard of this part of the debate. I'm asking you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u792	The theme of education reform and seventh graders has repeatedly been pierced. Why seventh graders? Because these are the victims of this reform. Those kids really didn't deserve to put up with what they put up with today. Their parents talk about it, the teachers talk about it and the kids themselves. I'll present a report to the public in a moment. The functioning of Class VII pupils in a reformed primary school, from which a very sad picture of what they had to go through. I also want to make this report public because there's still time to help them in the next class so that it doesn't happen to their colleagues who are coming in today. Do you know how many of these kids sleep, seventh graders? This is research: 53% test children sleep only 6 hours a day and another 13% It's even less. It's one of the data, and I'm about to go public, so I'm not going to go any further, but these kids need to be helped. Who's gonna claim it? Who's gonna claim? Does anybody care? [[Applause]] I'm reproving myself. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Hypocrisy.]] And vice versa. Characteristics and competences of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman should be courageous, the Ombudsman should be uncompromising, the Ombudsman should be able to claim children regardless of which political group would come up with an idea. You know, we've never looked at the colors, and anyone who's come forward with a problem with the spokesperson... Many Members, who are not here today, regret, begged, things have been taken without delay and always with the utmost respect for children, for children's affairs. Because they deserve it. [[Applause]] It was for them that this office was appointed. It's the most urgent thing. I can't replace it so quickly right now, but here are the comments. In this report, there are comments about the state of compliance with the rights of the child and there, especially in these five categories, these comments have been grouped. Please, I'll be gone, read those notes, and try to fill in the stuff we put in there. It's something that's very urgent. The psychiatry we talked about here today is a collapse. It's the shrinks talking straight. Today there is no need to look for long-term programs. We have to act here and now, because in a moment we're going to have such an increase in things that shouldn't happen in our reality that we're not going to recover. You can't do anything without putting money in this system. Unfortunately, the assessment of medical procedures is the first action, the necessary action, which must take place in psychiatry, pediatrics and other medical fields that affect children. And please, remember, kids have their pediatrician to always get to him first. They deserve it just as much as the spokesperson for the rights of the child. [[Applause]] Did the Ministry meet the expectations of psychiatry? We're waiting. There are announcements. It's the same as the announcements regarding the withdrawal from the payment for a parent's stay in the hospital. I am carefully analysing these announcements of the Minister. They're optimistic, they're optimistic, because until recently they weren't. We're waiting for them to be fulfilled. Several or a dozen hospitals have resigned themselves from this payment. I hope the others go that way too. The scale of receiving children because of poverty. I have already spoken from this place many times, I think I must repeat again: we do not know the situation of taking a child from parents because they were poor. That's not true. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Anyone who disseminates such information, or has no knowledge, or... [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] ...trying to play the children's business. You can't do that because it's pulling law enforcement, judicial, social assistance. To help children, you have to have courage and determination, you have to act. I did this research on all the 61 cases I was talking about two years ago. The study on a larger group was carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber, because probably 300 cases. In the final phase, we combined actions. I've been investigating court records. These studies, which the Ombudsman carried out in relation to these 61 cases, have been examined by the Institute of Justice of the Ministry of Justice. He didn't say anything. More than we do, we've got our opinions covered. The reasons for receiving children were extreme negligence, the threat of their life and health, addiction, including alcoholism. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Exactly.]] Somewhere, maybe in fifth, sixth place, there was also the fact that someone was poor, but that wasn't the reason. If we're talking about it, I'm gonna get right to it, about violence against children, does it happen in rich homes? Yeah, she happens in every house. It's not determined by the state of wealth. It is rather determined by parental competence and heart. [[Applause]] June 1st, Children's and Youth Sejm. It was wrong that he was canceled. I immediately, this Friday, when this information was presented, was filled with texts, e-mails, information about it by young people who felt simply unseriously treated. That's why I was talking today about how they have the right to vote. I referred to the authority of Janusz Korczak and referred to the authority of John Paul. II, I referred to the authority of Irena Sendlerov. These young people did not allow themselves to take the child's day and organize the Children's and Youth's Parliament. I was there and I will tell you honestly: I suggest you watch if there are debates of this Parliament somewhere on the Internet. Great science, wisdom flowing from young people, really. The old Polish saying says that a man must learn his whole life, and I will tell you on the basis of what I observed there: not necessarily from the older ones, but from the wiser ones. [[Applause]] What is the situation of children in Poland on the world stage? We are still called the homeland of the rights of the child, we deserve it. The whole story has been done for this, but we also need to be consistent. It should be noted that nobility obliges. If, at the initiative of the Polish Ombudsman for the rights of the child, the UN adopts the Third Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the country where it came from signs and says: we do not ratify, because no, it looks bad, it sounds bad. [[Applause]] This also shows that there is no determination to submit to external control as the rights of the child are respected. What's the third protocol about? This is the last UN committee that didn't have such a protocol, the one about children. And we managed to convince the UN. He says that if your country does not safeguard your rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, then you can complain to the UN. Why should Polish children not have a chance to search for arbitration when they feel that the whole way has been defeated and they are unfortunately unprotected? It doesn't work for the kids, you have to notice. And the second thing that's important is the strategy to fight violence against children. You can say different, you can call this document different, but the most important thing is: all hands aboard when we are talking about fighting violence against children. Let me tell you, this is not an optimistic picture. I hear from people who sit in this House sitting on these benches that the family is holy, even when it uses violence, that a city that does not implement the law on anti-violence in the family should be commended. It's a shame. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It is a shame.]] It's a shame because it's supporting the perpetrators, the torturers, and thanking the next child for being abused, molested, and killed. But it's not my responsibility, it's not my conscience, it's whoever's doing it. And I will always - whether I will stand here or be on the other side, maybe someday here under the Seym - beg for these children because they need to be claimed for them. [[Applause]] I also appeal to you, especially those here, because I treat you as friends with children, perhaps not all of you... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...but those of you who stayed here to talk about children's matters at midnight. It's an hour maybe hard to talk to, but we're talking about serious stuff. There are also bachelors of the Smile Order. Darlings, remember: every word like that against children must have a comeback immediately, you must react immediately and you must always stand on the good side. As the children once asked me if it was easy to run this office and how I take matters, I said: you know, I have this satisfaction that I always stand on the bright side of power. They say, and you're the Jedi. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's worth being a Jedi. I have a few questions for which Members have immediately announced that they should answer in writing. Then allow me not to answer them now. But one of these things is an important thing, you have to ask for these children, because if I don't ask for them, it's a long time before anyone can ask for them: the children of foreigners. It is the railway station on the border of Brest - Terespol, these are children who... Have you seen any new photos from Syria today? Dead kids packed up on cars that were being shipped out there again. These are pictures from today. We are here today or yesterday, because it is after midnight, we are talking about the rights of the child, but these are the next children that Europe has not given to, has not given the world its hand. We will be ashamed of these times, we will be ashamed that these mothers and children must spend months camping at the railway station on the border of Brest - Terespol, and we are figuring out what else to do. And it's also worth knowing that they can't go back to Chechnya. When they return to Chechnya, they will be murdered, these children will be taken from them or they will not know what will happen to them. It's also our responsibility and our conscience. The question was, what would Irena Sendler be doing today? It's an important question. That's what I asked someone closer, because I had this contact not so frequent, I asked her daughter who I was friends with: Janka, what would your mom do today if she were alive and strong? She says, "Are you wondering?" She'd organize a humanitarian corridor and help those kids out there who don't have a chance to help. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A PiS-owski move to...]] It is also worth noting that if Irena Sendlerov wanted to help only on the spot, she would not have saved 2.5,000. children. She'd help them die. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: And Korczak would go with them.]] I'm sure it would be an environment. There was a suggestion -- not in questions, but before that -- I'm going to talk to her, even though I'm going to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe more, Your Marshal, but just a moment. Russia. I think you're closer than I am about the accuracy, but if you read this information correctly, you'd see that there was a very dangerous Internet phenomenon where children committed suicides, where they cut each other. And it was coming from there, so the logical thing is that it's worth asking if you know anything more about it, maybe you can help us out. But if you had read a few more reports earlier, you would have seen at whose request the Ombudsman of the rights of the child of Russia for helping to kidnap children from Ukraine was excluded from the European Network of Ombudsmen of the Rights of the Child. On my motion. [[Applause]] So keep your insinuations to yourself. This is unworthy of this House. This is the Seym, sir. [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very, very much for your presence, for your cooperation, [[Applause]] Your Marshal, for his great kindness, because this is also kindness for Polish children. Thank you very much, everyone present. If I'm gonna be needing you and I, together, for the children's sakes, I'm on the front. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Can we take a picture here with you?]] With great pleasure, always.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u793	But that's in a minute. Allow me, Mr. Spokesman, to conclude this point by closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u794	The position of the club PSL and ED on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, together with the position of the committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was privileged to speak on behalf of the PSL parliamentary club. I would like to begin by quoting from Mark Michalak's letter, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, prepared on the occasion of the Children's Day, which was recently, because June 1st. The Ombudsman reminded Janusz Korczak that: there are no children - there are people, they must be treated equally with adults, although of course taking into account their different scale of concepts, different resources of experience. It's so simple and difficult at the same time. It's hard to agree with those words. This difficult spokesperson is trying to be successful. Numerous meetings with children and young people, hundreds of letters filled with emotions in which authors express sadness for lack of love, respect, understanding... That's over 50,000. intervention per year - that's a lot. We had the opportunity to read over half a thousand pages of the report on the activities of the Ombudsman. It is clearly an institution that is needed and committed. The fact that every year the number of intervention of the Ombudsman is increasing does not mean that children are getting worse in Poland. This is primarily the result of the institution's increasing recognition and confidence in it, and this is the result of hard work. At this point, it is also important to appreciate not only interventions, but also numerous campaigns and social actions aimed at education, building awareness of the parent and the child about the rights of the child. The lion's share of cases based on the state report on the right to raise in the family. However, it is not only intervention that needs to be appreciated. The huge involvement of nearly 300 patrons of major socio-cultural events, several dozen seminars and conferences, and finally participation in studies shaping somewhat public opinion is an added value of the Ombudsman's position. These educational activities, but also in a sense preventive, supported by documents such as: The Convention on the Rights of the Child is extremely important for the future of Polish citizens. Speaking of education, about prevention, it's worth referring to events that took place so recently in this building. Because of your incomprehensible decision, Mr. Marshal, the Sejm building has become unavailable to children. Unfortunately, Mr Kuchciński's decision involves the inclusion of our current term of office of the Sejm on a disgraceful list - a term during which the Children's and Youth Sejm did not take place. Shame, Mr. Marshal, is a bad example that you have set for young people, especially those who are socially and actively involved. It is particularly sad because this year we are celebrating the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. Marshal Kuchciński is honking about this everywhere and towards it, and his actions contribute to the destruction of this tradition. All that remains is to express my hope that this will never happen again, and that the marshal will apologize for his bad decisions. Finally, I would like to quote another appeal to adults: to listen more carefully to children. It's the most precious gift we can give our children. Today, I would like to make a similar appeal to the rulers: in a rush of all actions, even tiredness, less desire or lack of it, find the time and strength to listen carefully to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. His observations, suggestions, advice and actions are very important. Remember, children are the future of our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u795	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I will present my position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. When I read the information, I had mixed feelings. On the one hand, this document is extremely extensive. It would be reasonable to assume that Mr. Spokesman has dealt with every aspect of our youngest subjects' lives comprehensively. However, by reading it more thoroughly, you can easily see that among the issues and information really important many lines of this text are simply so-called. pouring water, unfortunately, in my opinion affecting the reception of the whole document, because it distracts attention from the specifics. Another point is that when reading this multi-page work, it is felt that in Poland only a spokesman stands up for our children and stands up for them, that without his demands and appeals, no one, no office or institution, would take the right steps to correct the situation of our youngest citizens. Is that so? I think that from the point of view of government action, for example the 500+ programme, which significantly affects the reduction in the percentage of children living in extreme poverty, or the actions of Minister Wójcik, who is fighting for the welfare of Polish children outside the country, the answer to this question is obvious. However, a completely different answer arises after reading this document. While the information is your spokesperson and you can prepare it as you think it is appropriate, I would expect more from the part about the comments on the state of the child's rights. As I pointed out last year, from this part we should receive information about common successes and failures, I stress. The welfare of children lies in our hearts and we are all responsible for what their reality looks like. All our actions affect this reality. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the Ombudsman's interventions were extremely valuable. If an action serves just one child - and as we can read, a spokesman helped many children with his work - this action must be judged positively. Thank you, Mr Michalak, for your actions to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I also thank you for working with the various resorts. Even though you've been negative on her, the number of cases you've taken and the interventions you've successfully completed could be a sign of something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u796	I state that the Sejm has been informed about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2017 together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. But it's not over yet. I couldn't take the floor. Today there were many words from adults, but it so happens that on June 1 we were together in a meeting with young people. I think these standing applause are the best evidence of thanking the Ombudsman on the part of young people. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Can we have a picture here for a second?]] But it's outside, in the cockroaches. [[Voice from the room: Can't it be here?]] No. In the clowns. [[Voice from the room: One minute break.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] One minute break, but one minute. Take a picture with the spokesperson and we'll be right down to the next point. Ladies and gentlemen, please make an appointment where you want to take your picture. I'm sure you'll find a good seat in the plenary room, but just like that. One minute, ladies and gentlemen. Have a seat on the bench. One minute. I'm ordering a 1-minute recess, ladies and gentlemen. Use it because I'm going to have to ask you to step into the cockroaches. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 minutes 16 hours 0 min 17]] I'll resume the session after recess. Membership! There's enough time for pictures. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 66th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask you to move on to the colloquials so that we can continue with the next point. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see. So I close the list. Here we go. Here we go. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. Please approach the speaker and begin your statement, because I think you are resigning. [[Sekundek.]] Please stand behind the speaker and make a statement. [[Your Marshal, I'd like to see you under some normal circumstances...]] Please, sir, because I think you're resigning, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u797	Because this is where it happens... Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Ryszard Wilczyński is perhaps one of the most famous political adventurers from Opole, who was famous for searching through Jarosław Kaczyński's private notes, then being punished by the Poselian Ethics Committee with a reminder that he wanted to exterminate his colleagues from other political parties...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u798	Please wait a moment, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u799	For the fact that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u800	Mr Pierce, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u801	Am I gonna be able to start over?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u802	No, you can continue, but wait. I ask Members to leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u803	But you interrupted me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u804	Please, sir, do not interfere with my holding of the sitting. You're welcome to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u805	You're bothering me with my speech, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u806	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u807	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, one of the most famous political adventurers from Opole, was famous for his search for private notes by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. He was recently punished by the Committee on Ethics by a reminder that his fellow Members from other political parties wanted to exterminate. By the way, he insulted the representatives of the local citizens' committees taking part in the local elections because they did not want to support the Civic Platform in the upcoming elections, but in January 2018 from this speaker, by mentioning my name, he accused the vice-stars of Namysłowski Konrad Gęsiarz of blocking the mandate of the city councilman who was also the deputy-stars of Namysłowski. He produced graphics in the media, accusing the vice-stars of hypocrisy, blocking the town councilman's mandate and acting as vice-stars at the same time. To make the case obvious, in one of the discussions I asked the Opole Voivode to make a resolution on the election of vice-stars Konrad Gęsieraz to challenge the Voivodship administrative court. I did it so that there was no impression that we were following some double standards, so that it was obvious that our activists, our colleagues, were guarded twice or three times more than others. The resolution was contested by the voivode to the Voivodship Administrative Court. Today, or actually yesterday, because we are already after midnight, there was a hearing before the Provincial Administrative Court in Opole from the complaint of the voivodeship on the resolution of the Council of the Mental District on the election of Konrad Gęsierza as vice-stars. The administrative court dismissed the action by the voivode, declaring it unreasonable, stating that Konrad Gęsierz did not violate the prohibition to combine the mandate of the municipal councillor in Namysłów with the function of the deputy minister of Namysłowski. Therefore, the resolution of the county council on the election of Konrad Gęsieraz was correct and the mandate of the city councilman expired by law at the time of the election as vice-stars. The legal situation seems obvious. I am all the more surprised and astonished that Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, from this Parliamentary Speaker, in this Parliamentary Chamber, accused a self-governmentman, the vice-star of Namysłowski of breaking the law, of failing to comply with the laws on the district government, the municipal government law, the electoral code. Such a man, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, for eight years was an Opole Voivode. It is appalling that after 8 years of office, when his services included the legal supervision of the resolutions of various local governments, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński did not realise that the election of the vice-stars of Namysłowski took place in accordance with the law, and used this speech in the Polish parliament to conduct local politics, to mislead the public and voters, the inhabitants of Namysłow. By the way, he used local, party, platformer hunwejbins to attack the self-governmentman, the vice-star of the Namysłowski Konrad Gęsiarz. We're clear today. There is a verdict of the Provincial Administrative Court. I hope Mr Ryszard Wilczyński will apologize. He apologizes to the public, apologizes to the voters, apologizes to the vice-stars of Namysłowski Konrad Gęsieraz and apologizes to me, because from this Parliamentary Chamber he has invoked, claimed that the vice-starosta Namysłowski is my protégé and I urge him to break the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u808	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice, will make another parliamentary statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u809	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In today's reflection, allow me to invite you to accompany those who are already asleep in a righteous dream today, because they have earned their rest in the next stage of the pilgrim trail. You fell down the road, dressing abrasions on your feet before bedtime, rubbing creams to relieve the effect of excessive solar exposure. That's the down and down pilgrim. All these inconveniences are meaningless, given the purpose of your peregrination. With joy in your heart, deep trust you rush to meet with the Blessed Virgin, whether on Jasna Góra, Rokitno, Gietrzwałd, Lichen, Piekary Śląskie, Kalwaria Zebrzydowska or many other places, Marian shrines in Poland. It's a spawn country. It is this July-August time of struggling with yourself on the pilgrimage route, struggling with physical fatigue, but more importantly, struggling with yourself in a spiritual sense. Through our journey to the Blessed Lady, to the crypt of motherly love and care, we want to become better, to find in her image features which - it seems possible - are reflected in ourselves, the great motherly love, care and care, and to continue to the very end. We go to her for ourselves, but also for our loved ones, blemishing our daily affairs, looking for a solution to crises, weaknesses, enslavements. We take the burden of the pilgrim backpack with us sometimes beyond measure, and if it were not for the fact of the brotherhood of the pilgrim community, which is also prayingly storming in our intention, we would certainly not be able to. And yet, every morning, we get excited and excited, knowing that we are getting closer and closer to the goal, that the expected meeting will be soon. Even earlier Apologizing Górka and the certainty of achieving the desired goal, and as every morning on the tour of pilgrim groups sounds joyfully Marian hours integrated into one-sounding choir of zealous pilgrims. Then I greet you, spawn Polish. Together with other parliamentarians, we embrace you with our intercessional prayer, we rejoice at the fact that your pastors, pastors, are leading you on the roads of the most beautiful witness of faith, the most beautiful, because based on your faithful activity. After all, it is you who, for a few days of peregrination, open yourself to the experience of the Holy Spirit, after the reply of the Blessed Lady, being online with the Creator, while retreating from the humbug of the small content and the whim of everyday life. I also thank the owners of parking places, people of good faith who support the pilgrims. I wish you good condition, abundance of groups of accommodation and logistics, security of marches under the care of order groups, constant joy to animators and liturgical groups. May the Mother of God help you, and pray for her country in the century of independence. May the good Lord lead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-05-sejm-66-3.u810	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 66th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 67th session of the Sejm convened on 18, 19 and 20 July 2018 was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 28]]
