ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u1	Good. I open the 50th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Alexander Swede as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats. Good morning. I inform you that the Sejm at its sixty-sixth meeting on 22 March 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act on Micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and some other laws, to the Act amending the Act amending the Act on Recognition of Unvalid Decisions issued to Restricted Persons for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State, to the Act on Judicial Chambers and most amendments to the Act amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Security Housing and Houses for Homeless Persons, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Resources of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code and some other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the fifty-sixth meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fiftieth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points one, two, three, four, seven, eight, nine and 10 of the draft agenda be examined, even though the Commission's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia and consider it as the first item of the agenda and changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider this point as the last. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In view of the lack of votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the order of the 50th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of proposals of a legislative nature, the vote on the first paragraph of the second reading of the draft resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia will be held immediately after its consideration. If there are any amendments, we will announce a recess and vote after the recess. In addition, I would like to inform you that, in the case of the adoption of certain laws by the Sejm at its current meeting and after the preparation of the reports of the relevant Senate committees, the agenda may be supplemented by points: the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court; the Law amending the Law of 27 July 2001; the Law amending the Law on the General Court and the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court; the Law amending the Law amending the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Tomorrow, we begin the session at 10:00 a.m., and Friday at 11:00 p.m. most likely. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. I remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and is included in print No. 773. The committee's report can be found in print No 773 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Legislative Committee a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia; print No 773. I would like to say first of all that this initiative is the same as the resolution initiative which was taken by the Polish Parliament. As stated in the title of the draft resolution, the matter concerns the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia, i.e. from the Polish side of both the Sejm and the Senate. The content of the resolution is identical to that of the Sejm resolution. Only obvious changes were made to the word "Sejm" was replaced by the word "Senat." In addition, the content of our resolution, which the joint committees adopted at their meeting, was supplemented by... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm listening.]] [[We're listening.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please stop talking. There you go.]] The draft resolution was supplemented by the last sentence of the report: The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This amendment was adopted unanimously. High Izbo, during the meeting of the joint committees, the discussion was short, but very substantive, among others. The question was whether we already know what the composition will be, what is the organisational outline of this Polish-Georgian group. I answered this question as a representative of the applicants. Well, here's the situation. The Parliamentary Assembly is to have 20 parliamentarians, 10 on each side, i.e. 10 on the part of Georgia and 10 on the part of the Senate and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, while the parity was set at the level of 3 representatives of the Senate, 7 representatives of the Sejm. The meetings are to be held once a year, once on the territory of Georgia, once on the territory of the Republic of Poland. All costs related to the arrival, flight, service of this group shall be borne by the posting party. If the Polish delegation goes to Georgia, these costs are covered by the Sejm and Senate Office, and vice versa, if Georgian parliamentarians come to Poland, the costs are borne by the Georgian Parliament. As regards logistics, the organisation of these meetings rests on the inviting party, on the website which organises the session of the Parliamentary Assembly. As far as the frequency of meetings is concerned, the rules assume that it will be a one-year cycle, so once a year this session will take place. As regards details, statutes and such issues, this is similar to the solutions adopted in the case of such institutions of the Polish Parliament with other parliaments that already exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I remind you that the motion for a resolution was also proposed by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Would any of your senators like to ask you such a question? I understand there are no questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich signed up for the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen! This is an entirely justified initiative. This Parliamentary Assembly was lacking, even though history... was actually due to the fact that the history of Polish-Georgian relations and cooperation had outnumbered contacts between parliamentarians. It is not few, it is not a small number of contacts, but it is worth creating such a gathering to stabilise this inter-parliamental exchange. Georgia's history accelerated considerably in 2003. The Rose Revolution was one of the most serious spikes that affected the Kremlin, because, alongside the orange revolution, it showed that societies in the post-Soviet area are capable of building democratic mechanisms. The victory of the Saakashvili camp, Zurab Żwania in 2004, the first as presidential candidate, has accelerated the process of internal change in Georgia, which has led to its significant convergence with the West in a short time. We are therefore in a situation where Georgia, which does not belong to NATO or to the European Union, has special relations with the European Union, has been accepted as a member associated with the European Union and has accepted it itself, and has a special council I will remind you that only Ukraine has such special advice As a special partner of the North Atlantic Alliance. It can therefore be said that it is in the Southern Caucasus at the centre of the Atlantic Community and the European Community. We, as members of the two communities, have special obligations towards Georgia, which we are trying to implement and during its ups and during its crises, as it was in 2008, when the Russian intervention caused the separation of South Ossetia and consequently the submission of Absalom to the Russian Federation. The presence of us parliamentarians in such a forum is therefore fully justified and I therefore very much support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of a Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia. [[Applause]] We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 763, and the report of the Commission In print No 763 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been honored... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, we are not allowed to speak in the courtroom. And if anyone wants to, it's a very big hallway and there's room for that. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. You're welcome, Senator.]] It was my honour to present to the High House a bill amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws. This is President Andrzej Duda's initiative, which comes from the intervention of the President's Office. Mr Andrzej Dera, present at the committee meeting, on the grounds that this project was submitted, cited examples given by residents, people, the society that raised the problem of mistransfer of money as a result of errors in bank account numbers. This problem is addressed in banking law, but the solutions that are currently in operation are not effective. As regards the provisions of this law, the issue of payment transactions carried out using an incorrect bank account number, i.e. the so-called. The IBAN in the 26-digit system... it could cause major problems. Problems arise at the time of the attempt to obtain information Of course, if a person realizes that such a mistransfer has been made On the account in respect of which these funds have been affected. Because the IBAN system is designed in such a way that, so to speak, the layout of the bank account number numbers causes some transfers to the wrong bank account to be rejected from the automatic machine. It also happens... There's a formula for checking the bank account number through the so-called. the control sum. As I say, some of these transfers are rejected, but it happens that people who send transfers to the recipient make a mistake by entering a wrong bill. In the current banking law, due to the implementation of the directives, there is no obligation to provide any data outside the bank account number. So the transfer title doesn't have to include the transfer recipient's data, and even if they're there, they don't have to be verified by the bank. The scale of transactions carried out, very often in these times carried out online... They are automatically verified and if the account number is correct and exists in the system, the funds are transferred. The person who made such a wrong transfer has the right to request information from the bank on the account in which the funds were entered, i.e. de facto the owner of the incorrect account into which the funds were transferred. Well, there's a problem here that the owner of this account has to give his consent to give his details to the person who made the wrong transfer. If this person does not have such data, unfortunately on a civilian road, without knowing the addressee of the suit, he cannot file a lawsuit, it is problematic. Moreover, Minister Andrzej Dera, present at the committee meeting, pointed out that often these incorrect bank accounts are bank accounts covered by bailouts. Here there are additional problems with possible enforcement. As the Minister pointed out at the committee meeting, the problem is not an accident, because the number, as I say, of the intervention of the President's Chancellery indicates that this is a problem concerning part of society. With regard to the possible recovery of these funds, the Minister also pointed out such an aspect that often people who are already identified as those on whom the funds have been billed... We are usually talking about large funds here, because if these are wrong transfers to low amounts, often people who have made a wrong transfer do not ask for such funds, do not try to recover them. But when it comes to large amounts, and there are such mistakes, then the person on whom the bank account will receive such a transfer may not be interested in returning the funds. Moreover, it has been difficult and difficult to show the bad will of this person when it comes to civil proceedings. Because often, as Minister Andrzej Dera has argued, it has happened that even during civil proceedings, people have stated that they simply expected some funds to influence the bank account, they did not know what the funds were, so the funds were spent. And it's hard to show some bad will and enforce it. The law proposed by your President is basically limited to solutions for these wrong transfers only, imposing mechanisms on the banking system And here I will immediately mention that the vacathio legis of this law is precisely because banks and banks operating bank accounts are able, so to say, to adapt to these regulations, to be 3 months. As for the mechanism that will operate under this law, I will try to present it very briefly. Well, the person who makes the transfer to the wrong bank account and realizes that such a mistake has been made may turn to the bank. The bank should start proceedings within 3 days and apply to the supplier, i.e. the manager of the bank account of the person on whom the funds have entered the account. It may be the same entity, within one bank, it may be another bank that applies for... to the person who received the funds, stating that the transfer was wrongly made, and giving the possibility to reimburse these funds costlessly. There is even a provision in the Act that the person who will return these funds should do so in a cost-free manner. And the time limit for the statutory regulations proposed by your President is a period of one month. If, by one month, the matter is not resolved and a voluntary refund is not made by the person in whose account the funds have been received, then the person who made the transfer to the wrong account shall have the right to apply through his bank operator for access to the data of the person who received the funds improperly. The whole procedure will certainly facilitate the recovery of funds that have been wrongly transferred wrongly and directed to the bank account to which it needs to be. As far as the legislative process is concerned, I will say that the law was being prosecuted in the Sejm, adopted by a majority of 436 votes, no one abstained or opposed. Similarly, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, the Act was adopted unanimously. And I hereby request the High House to adopt the law on the content proposed by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. This bill was introduced by the President. The President's position was presented during parliamentary work by the Secretary of State of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, Minister Andrzej Dera. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on this bill? Minister? No? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: No, thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to the President's representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question to the Minister? No. Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Leszek Skiba's meeting. Does a government representative, Minister, wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 762, and the report of the Commission In print No 762 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance yesterday dealt with this law. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to represent the government. At the committee meeting was the Undersecretary of State, Minister Paweł Gruza. The draft law was prepared by the government. The main objective of this law is to implement the European Union Payment Directive. But I must also say here one thing: that the deadline for which we have had time to implement this directive has already expired. Time was until January. So we have such a slight delay. This directive enables the creation of a single market for payments across the European Union. This is another directive on this subject. This is because progress in payments, e-payments using the internet is so great that we need to keep up with this electronic reality, with the changes that follow. The Legislative Office submitted 35 comments, which translated into 39 proposals for amendments. These comments, and consequently the proposals for amendments, were agreed between the Legislative Office and the Ministry of Finance. Why were there so many comments? All these comments are of a technical legislative nature, and they result, as it has been said, from the fact that, in parallel, the Sejm was working on a bill or a package of laws called the business constitution. And there's some stuff going on here in some way. If you don't mind, I'll tell you. It's just a little side note. It is as if it shows a role of the Senate, which is often challenged. Because if it hadn't been for the Senate and if it hadn't been for the introduction of the Senate, of course, it would have been the will of the Senate. The 39 amendments are that law in many respects, either it cannot function or it does not function in a dysfunctional way. As I said at the outset, this is the implementation of the European Union directive, hence so many of these amendments. None of these amendments are of a substantive nature, all of which are technical, cleaning issues, as the legislator said here, which the committee has just dealt with with with the prominent participation of the legislator. There are two other comments that need to be made when it comes to committees. First line. Some attention was received by the Polish Post Office. The legislator agreed with the attention contained in the letter to the committee, the comment which the Polish Post has submitted. Mr Grzegorz Bierecki declared that if this was presented in the form of an amendment, this amendment would be tabled during the debate. We have been informed that the problem raised by the Polish Post will be resolved not by changing the bill, but by interpretations which the Ministry of Finance will issue. Second point, that is to say, a few comments made by Leviathan... The Minister and his colleagues also referred to this at the committee meeting. Most of them were convinced of one thing, but there was some sort of discrepancy. But most of these explanations from the Ministry have convinced the representative of Leviathan. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will, of course, increase the scope of payment services, increase safety, also consumer safety, introduce certain issues relating to complaints, simplify in particular cross-border transactions in electronic payments and, in some cases, reduce costs for consumers. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted with these 39 amendments. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government in the course of the work. Welcome to Minister Leszek Skiba. Is the government representative, the minister, willing to speak on this... No. Any of you ladies and gentlemen want to ask the Minister a question? Yes. Minister, please come to the floor, because the Senator of the committee wishes to ask a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u10	Mr Marshal, during the committee meeting we discussed quite extensively the request of the Polish Post, which was received by the committee, related to the amendment proposed by the post concerning the procedure for handling complaints by the Polish Post. I know that Minister Gruza, present at the meeting at that time, asked for a day to consider, hence my question: what is the effect of considering this proposal of the Polish Post? The posters present at the meeting were very convinced of the need for such an amendment. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u11	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We have indeed taken the opportunity to examine this issue more closely and to consult external experts on whether such an amendment is necessary. It seems, and this is the effect of this reflection, that the current provision, as well as the legal state concerning regulations related to the Polish Post, which says that the regulator for the post is the Ministry of Infrastructure, are sufficient if you take into account the context of this provision of the Act and the provision of the Polish Post Act. So it's obvious that the Ministry of Infrastructure is really the sole regulator. We can take advantage of the opportunity, of the work in the Senate and present this interpretation, here there is no doubt that this exclusivity of the Ministry of Infrastructure as a regulator is sufficient and it seems that... Of course I understand that it is always so... that you can express certain doubts, but here, from this perspective, this majority voice, you can say, the interpreters are unambiguous. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask what is the amount of interchange fees that are collected when using these payment cards at the moment. And I would also like to ask about the second issue, about the dissemination of this non-cash turnover in the public administration, because it is still very, very lame. Are there any incentives for this area of administration to be served more effectively by a non-cash, card-based trading system?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u14	Thank you so much for these questions. This interchange fee is currently 0.2%. This is the effect of all these efforts to reduce this fee to make the non-cash turnover as popular as possible, so that where consumers simply did not have the opportunity to use the card payment, this possibility appeared. As far as administrative services are concerned, work is underway on this solution. We see more and more opportunities, cooperation with various institutions, with the police, with the tax administration is already being established. On the side of the Ministry of Finance and National Tax Administration is openness to such solutions. It is worth to say, however, that in some ways the matter is not so trivial, because there is always a question of who is really going to bear this interchange fee and how to settle in such a rather difficult situation, when on the one hand we are dealing with e.g. with an administrative fee which has a specific dimension and which we should not... The question is whether this fee is to be borne by the administration or by the citizen. And there are some technical issues that are difficult to resolve. Technically, in the sense of judgment on substantive matters, but also in the sense that specific devices are simply needed in specific places. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology is the absolute leader of these activities. We see full commitment to make these solutions as popular as possible, have a wide range and give you the opportunity to pay without having to come to the office with cash.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Klein wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u16	Once again, I would like to ask you about this issue and, in fact, ask you to give it some greater priority. By adopting the Payment Services Act, even in the previous term, before these EU regulations entered into force, we have led to a clear reduction in these interchange fees. It was at that time that caused great emotions on the side and banks, and card operators, but we managed to do it. We have also introduced these incentives for local government administration into this law. And these charges have been introduced by some operators at a minimum level, so it seems that at the moment it is not a problem who is to bear these costs. After all, if a non-cash turnover occurs e.g. between a private entrepreneur and a citizen, it is the entrepreneur who bears this cost and does not make any problem of it. Since these interchange fees are 0.2% today, I think at this point... And in the case of operations in the public administration, operators of their own free will have lowered them even further, perhaps even to the sum value. It's not a percentage, it's a quota fee for every operation, so that it's probably just a decision of the minister on the issue of public administration. We have to say that this is the end, not the search for the third or fourth year, and say that we want, we will see and so on. It simply requires a clear decision at some point. And that's what I'm asking. Has such a decision been made at some point? At least in the state administration, and behind that, the local government... I'm sure she can't be ordered directly, but I'm sure there'd be some sort of regulation that could lead to that. It is simply necessary to spread this non-cash turnover, because today the situation is absolutely incomprehensible, you can say so gently. In the whole economic sphere, the non-cash turnover is virtually universal, and when you enter the administration, whether self-government or public, except for a few exceptions, it is like a King of the Age. You have to come in with cash and pay, because the mayors, mayors, or executives say you can't do anything else and they always find a reason. So the request is to really give it such a pace that it will soon be possible to boast that there has also been a non-cash turnover in this area of life.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u17	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u18	Thank you very much. I can say that I absolutely agree that it is important to act as soon as possible. From the perspective of the Ministry of Finance, we can say that terminals already appear in the National Tax Administration, i.e. tax offices. Therefore, it can be said that this step has been taken. Thank you very much. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u20	In that case, I still have a request to inform me in writing, possibly, of what programme has been adopted as regards the dissemination of non-cash turnover in the local government and state administration, what are the barriers and successes in this area. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Sure.]] [[I think it's on the Ministry's website.]] [[Please?]] [[It's on the Ministry's website.]] [[There's information, but there's no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u21	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 765, and the report of the Commission In print No 765 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u22	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The joint committees discussed the proposed set of amendments to the law on the road freight monitoring system and certain other laws. This is the consequence of an innovative and very, very successful transport monitoring law introduced a year ago. This is a law that was supposed to cover and cover sensitive goods, in particular motor fuels and their derivatives, and excise goods, namely tobacco, alcohol. The purpose of the Act was to limit illegal trade in these substances. As the reality shows, to my joy, everyone present at the committee meeting, including the opposition senators, praised this bill. This bill was a very good step in the right direction. And this is the great success of the rule of law and justice. The good news is that after a year of operation of this law, ministers looked very closely at They're looking at it. They're looking at it. They're looking at it, they're The effects of the Act and they already know where to go in order to improve it. They therefore proposed that rail services should also be covered by this monitoring. And since we have a problem in Poland with moving outside the country... to the illicit marketing of pharmaceuticals, ministers have proposed to include these substances in the scope of this very good bill. And this proposal, I'll admit, was accepted enthusiastically. All the senators at the committee meeting supported both the amendments which were supported by ministers and the law with amendments unanimously, i.e. the 16 present senators, were in favour, no one opposed and no one questioned it, with no abstentions. What more can we say? If this is to be the case, it is only necessary to wish the ministers good luck in further fulfilling this very important goal for Poland. With regard to the course of the committee's meeting, the committee asked substantive questions arising from the knowledge of the Senators of the thematic scope and from their natural interest in this law. These questions were answered in depth by representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the National Tax Administration. During the committee meeting, a certain gentleman also spoke... I was asked to tell you about it here because you're on the list of lobbyists of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. However, he participated in the committee meeting as a representative, legal adviser to the National Chamber of Liquid Fuels, I think that's what it's called... Wrong? [[Different.]] [[Okay, okay...]] So you were the one who made the statement... So there's been an incident. In fact, so much for the report from the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: No, thank you.]] No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, I asked questions about the real effect of implementing this law. We can see that this effect is. If we look at the issue of excise duty, we can see that, in principle, excise duty, despite the entry into force of this law, has not increased. Right? It could be said that excise duty, given the effect of economic growth, is at the same level as it was before the entry into force of this law. So what was this practice, this crime? Because that would mean that the fuels were introduced into the Polish customs territory of lying, subject to excise duty, and then something happened. Yes? And if you could tell the Minister what was the practice that led to the fact that companies avoided paying VAT... Because there's been abuse. And I would ask a second question right away, and I would even ask for a written reply, because I also asked this question at the committee meeting and then you were not able to give precise information, so there probably is no more precise knowledge in this matter. And the point is, how much has the VAT revenue actually increased because this law has been introduced, but after deduction of the effect of a clear increase in VAT resulting from economic growth, i.e. from the natural processes of the increase in the number of vehicles? And if that's okay... If you could tell me about it today, I would appreciate it, and if you didn't, I have a request for written information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u25	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I answer the second question: to answer the senator in detail, I will give this information in writing. At the committee meeting I spoke more generally about growth, of course counting down economic growth in our country, which is a fact. And going back to the modus operandi, which the senator asked about: this is the fact that the increase in VAT is not proportional to the increase in excise duty. Of course, there has been an increase in excise duty, but it absolutely does not reflect the increase in VAT. The law itself on monitoring the carriage of goods by road was about to counter this pattern of organised crime, because, please, in this respect, we are obviously talking about organised crime. The basic modus operandi, which we observed earlier as tax administration, Customs, tax control, and now as National Tax Administration, consisted of intra-Community acquisitions. Thus, it was not related to imports and exports with third countries, but to intra-Community acquisitions. And, interestingly, In fact, this knowledge may not be very common and even the media does not even mention it much about organised criminal groups as part of intra-Community acquisitions paid excise duties but did not pay VAT. Therefore, after the sealing, there was no increase in excise duty as in VAT. Why did they pay excise duty? For a very simple reason. According to the Community Directives of the European Union, imports of products subject to excise duty are secured. That's what I call it. the suspension of excise duty procedure. And in the context of intra-Community acquisitions, these products were secured in the electronic EMCS system, which caused that, unfortunately, in case of non-payment of excise duty Or, fortunately, from the point of view of the state budget In fact, a criminal who did not pay this excise duty could be reached formally. The problem was that too. Therefore, the change related to the creation of the National Tax Administration (NRS) that the Customs Service was responsible for excise duty at that time, and the tax administration was responsible for value added tax, and in fact, in part, also for tax control, in the context of controls and operations in the field of tax intelligence. Therefore, on the one hand, the Monitoring Act, which covers the issue of these products also in the field of VAT, and on the other hand, the establishment of the National Tax Administration has caused this problem not to occur today. But at the same time, since excise duty was paid, the increases of these two public-law danins are necessarily not proportional. Maybe I'll give you some more specific examples. The entities that we suspected and in respect of which of course various activities were or are being carried out, actually at the time of the entry into force of the SENT Act... I mean, it practically caused the turnover of these entities to fall. Why? Because they really stopped trading. But before that, they paid excise duties. And that's why their modus operandi was really about getting intra-Community fuel. Because, of course, we are talking mainly about fuel from Germany, from refineries, which are located at the border with Poland. Then, with regard to the authorities at that time, excise duty was paid to the customs authorities and VAT which, due to Community rules, could not be secured, was not secured and was only regulated as if post-factum, and was not really regulated. And that is really what the basic mechanism of fuel irregularities was all about. And, of course, the proposed law was intended primarily to tackle fuel irregularities, although also in other areas, because today we are talking about medicinal products, so this scope is wider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u26	Thank you very much. Senator Klein again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u27	I am sorry to ask you this now, in plenary, because I was also at the committee meeting, but we did not have much time there, and there was a desire to quickly complete the work on the bill. Besides, we support and support this law, this amendment, thinking that it is rational and necessary. But I would also like to ask you about the question of the tax gap. She is a bigger problem than just VAT in the case of fuels, etc., sometimes it was even said that this tax gap is in the order of tens of billions of zlotys. How much has it been reduced thanks to the rules we've introduced in the last two years? As in the Ministry of Finance Well, you're also responsible for the tax administration, are you assessing the level of this tax gap now? Because she's not gone, and it's never possible that she's gone, she's reduced to zero, because there's always going to be an area of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I will say this: of course, no country in the world has actually succeeded in bringing the tax gap to zero. This problem also applies to countries with a long history and traditions of an independent and continued state, such as Switzerland or other countries. Such a VAT gap exists in each country. Of course, you can talk about the different profiles of this gap, depending on whether we are talking about luce in indirect taxes, or whether we are talking about luce in direct taxes, because here of course you would also have to accept such a distinction. I would point out that, of course, we can talk about a very large number of data that are provided by the World Bank and by the European Commission and through independent agendas that estimate this gap. I would also like to point out that, of course, the range of these data is very large. Let me be clear: I am not able to answer specifically to the senator right now, but I would be happy to reply in writing in this regard, of course, on the basis of all these studies. To this day I can answer very precisely e.g. on the issue of tobacco products, because in this respect the independent Almares Institute, which works for tobacco producers the trash test, calculated the grey zone in Poland, i.e. the de facto tax gap, at 12.7%. I draw attention to the fact that a few years ago estimates of the same research institute were approaching 20%. We're talking about this kind of gap here. I used an example of tobacco products here because Poland is a special market for tobacco products. We have an external border with 3 countries where the prices of tobacco products compared to our domestic prices are much lower. And we are, of course, the most vulnerable to cigarette smuggling in the European Union. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that these are the actions This will also apply to the bill on which the honourable ladies and gentlemen will vote today, and we have managed to bring the tobacco gap closer to the gaps in other European countries that do not have a border with countries like us or, for example, with countries like us. the border with Norway or Switzerland. These are incomparable situations at all. There are no price differences, so the problem of smuggling either does not occur or occurs accidentally. Nevertheless, these regulations have caused a very serious sealing in this area. I draw attention to the fact that the bill also covers tobacco products. Thank you very much. [[I'll do it again...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u30	Minister, one more question about reverse VAT. This is not specifically related to this law, but since the Minister is on the stand, I would like to ask for information, it may even be in writing so that colleagues do not force themselves to deal with matters that may be of less interest to them. In the previous term, we adopted provisions on reverse VAT for individual products, e.g. scrap, metal rods, etc. It always had a positive effect. But the problem was that the VAT fraud crimes... that criminals in individual countries were switching, so to speak, to other products, e.g. in Poland for mobile phones or other electronics, in Romania for grain, in Germany for other things, etc. And Polish solutions were attractive to other countries. I'd like to ask. Maybe I'd like to know in writing. What really is the problem of extortion where we have introduced reversed VAT and whether there are criminal groups in other areas, as if benefiting from the universal VAT system that is in force in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: Of course, I will answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u31	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, if I may, would like to be informed of your general intentions in the Ministry for further sealing the tax system. Let me ask you briefly: where would our legislative intervention, in your opinion, give the best and fastest results? I'm asking because the money we could save is missing from other issues as well. I'm sure all social programme developers would be happy to turn to you for more savings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u33	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Of course, I agree... To answer the senator's question here, I stressed that, of course, we see that the grey zone still exists and we want to reduce it as much as possible. Let's face it, we're talking about organized crime. Criminals have great advisors and, of course, they keep trying to find gaps in legislation so they can get ahead of us. We as a finance resort try to match them, and sometimes even, I hope, outrun them when it comes to modus operandi, things that are invented by these criminals. To answer the senator's question precisely, I would like to point out At the committee meeting, we talked about this quite a bit. That we are primarily engaged in dialogue with industries. In fact, we believe that we will get the most information from entrepreneurs. I'm skipping the fiscal issues here. We, ladies and gentlemen, may not be talking about this much, but all these seals are primarily meant to help our entrepreneurs. They're supposed to help run an honest business so there's no such thing as a situation. in the fuel market. I emphasize that. I have often discussed this with the industry, with large companies, as well as with representatives of a small fuel station association. A problem, for example. in the fuel industry, before the entry into force of the Transport Monitoring Act, for example, there was no possibility of fair competition between traders. To answer the questions... We still want to seal this system, which is, first of all, we intend to introduce something that we talked about a long time ago, but we wanted to prepare ourselves for it well, so that entrepreneurs have as little problems as possible, so we want to amend this law by extending it to geolocation. Geolocation, but Okay, I'm gonna stress this. In such a way as not to impose additional obligations on our entrepreneurs so that it is really a cheap system for the state budget, but not felt for entrepreneurs. And we've accepted that rule. - Yeah, the amendment is after first reading in the Sejm That we will only download the data from the geolocations that entrepreneurs have. I would stress that our research shows that more than 95% entrepreneurs have their own geolocation systems, and to those who do not have them, we provide a free app to upload to any media, even a simple smartphone that will allow us to actually geolocate these transports of sensitive goods. This is one area. The second area is the departure from the burdensome obligations for entrepreneurs relating to paper declarations in the case of fuel oil and also the taking over of this task by the electronic system. At the same time, we seal the fuel oil system, as each Senator does. Knows This is one of the areas where, unfortunately, there have been and there have been further extortion. The next idea for which the Minister has so far informed us that we are starting conceptual work in this area I hope that there will also be a project soon to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. The introduction of a very similar geolocalisation principle to the collection of data from service stations, including those that have to monitor, for example, tank levels, if... And then we'd have a system shut down. So we're talking about imports that are monitored, we're talking about wholesale fuel sales, and finally we're talking about retail disposal, so that, as far as the fuel market is concerned, we can close this issue. As a result of these actions... Of course, I am not authorized to discuss these projects which have not yet been presented by the Minister and which have not been addressed by the Council of Ministers, and therefore I cannot talk about them, but I can assure the senator that we have a lot of these legislative ideas. It's just that Once again, I would like to stress this. We try to balance it out so that, on the one hand, we seal this system all the time and so that the funds that affect the budget are more and more, but on the other hand not to impose excessive obligations on our entrepreneurs, because of course they are the contributors to public danins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u34	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u35	Thank you. Minister, I'd ask you too. I'm joining Senator Czerwiński's question. For information, only here more information in writing, what would the impact of the funds from this VAT gap look like... And those government activities you're talking about are very important, so I would ask for such written information. Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: Of course. Very...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u36	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions raised by Senators Kleina and Swede and Senator Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! There was a representative of the Ministry of Health just now, which is why I am speaking to the Ministers. Although the government represents the Minister of Finance, this law is the fruit of working together, and that is exactly what I would like to say. Ladies and gentlemen, for several years in Poland And it may be a surprise to some. We are really successful when it comes to negotiating very low drug prices. Poland is a country in front of the countries of the European Union that has really achieved a great deal in this area. This system is perfected. And paradoxically, in a certain area, we have become victims of this very success. Medicines, which are jointly and severally paid by the National Health Fund and patients, have reached such a low price level, often many times lower than in other countries, that this has become a subject of interest to those who want to make it or make it their business and make huge profits here. The Road Traffic Monitoring Act now, as a result of the amendment, also the railway one which was conducted by the Ministry of Finance, from the very beginning focused essentially on fiscal elements, i.e., in short, the liquidation of the cash flow that was losing the state budget. At the moment, after the amendment, regardless of the improvement of the main area of operation of this law, it was supplemented by a passage concerning something completely different. As a result of this success and the availability of cheap medicines in Poland, there was a situation in which some medicines simply began to disappear from the Polish market in such a quantity that it began to threaten Polish patients. And there are a number of drugs that are changing, but not small, the number of items on the list of drugs that are or are simply unavailable to patients in Poland. It is precisely because, thanks to the low prices negotiated in Poland, they are attractive for countries where the prices of these medicines are high. This topic has been noticed for a long time and the regulations say very clearly that there is a list of medicines It's been updated. It is precisely those medicines that are lacking on the market, which are subject to the obligation to obtain special permits for them to be exported from Poland. Unfortunately, dishonest entrepreneurs found and found new ways to export these drugs from Poland. And the result is, unfortunately, a situation where some drugs are simply permanently lacking in pharmacies and patients do not have access to them. Sometimes these medicines are very important, even crucial to treatment. This initiative should therefore be highly assessed. I would like to say that, around the middle of last year, cooperation between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health started on this subject. It took a long time. I am very pleased that this cooperation has finally come to an end in the form of this law. It must be said that thanks to this law we get a whole range of different activities that limit the possibility of exports. Such a main mechanism used so far was the development of the so-called. Risk sharing mechanisms with manufacturers or drug distributors in Poland, but they were still not sufficient. This seems to be the next step, perhaps not the last, because these dishonest entrepreneurs will probably come up with something new. Well, that's the way it is. It is like a constant pursuit of those who invent ways to circumvent existing restrictions and regulations. However, today it seems that this step, which simply leads to the fact that trucks with medicines, as well as railway transport will also be subject to monitoring in this respect, is a step in the right direction. I also highly appreciate that high penalties will be imposed on those who will violate the principle of export of medicinal products on the deficit list from Poland or attempt to export them from Poland. They will also be charged with high costs of storing these products during the test. This seems to give us a chance that this problem will at least be reduced to a large extent. I congratulate both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. It seems that Minister Marcin Czech had to attend a committee meeting in the Sejm, which is why he is not here at the moment, but I would like to congratulate him very warmly, by way of immeasurably telling him that the initiative in this area has also come from me. Thank you very much. Of course, I will support both the law itself and the clarification or improvement of the amendments proposed by the committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the law The text of the Act is contained in print No 767 and the committee report In print No 767 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was honoured to present a report to the Legislative Commission on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 22 March 2018 by the Law amending the Law The report is contained in Senate printing No 767 A. This is the report on the committee's proceedings which took place on 10 April 2018. And the committee asks the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution in the form in which it is printed no. 767. Ladies and gentlemen, the genesis of this submission goes back to the actions of the Sejm. This is the reaction of the Sejm to the petition which has been submitted to the Sejm in respect of the Code of Offences. This petition dealt with 2 provisions in the law on the Code of Offences. And the Legislative Commission is putting forward these two amendments. These are editorial changes, they were not controversial during committee deliberations, they were accepted, they were accepted. These are, as I said, editorial changes, they come down to... the first change is that in the article. 130 §1 of the Code of Offences, which excludes the application of the provisions of the Code, i.e. Article 2 119, 120, 122 or 124, concerning theft if the subject matter of the act is weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives... As long as it's in the article. 119 We are talking about a situation where someone steals or owns someone else's moving goods to a value of PLN 250, in Article. 122 refers to a situation where a person acquires property, knowing that it comes from theft, to a value of 1/4 of the minimum wage, and in Article. 124 talking about a situation where someone destroys a thing intentionally and it's destruction, the value of that thing doesn't exceed a quarter of the minimum wage... Art. 130 concerns the exclusion of these provisions when the subject matter of an act is, as I said, weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives. Then it's a crime, not a misdemeanor. Because the above-mentioned provisions would assume that, since this is the minimum, so to speak, the extent of the act, we are dealing with a misdemeanor. But there's an art. 120, which refers to the embezzlement of a tree cut or knocked down. And when it comes to the fact that the object of the act is a weapon... Art. 120, where a tree is spoken of as being cut out or knocked down, has nothing to do with the recordings of the article. 130, which specifically refers to weapons, ammunition, explosives or explosives being the subject of an act. The subject matter of an act in the situation referred to in Article. 120, there's a tree cut or knocked down. And that, of course, was left by the Sejm, as well as by our committee... Of course, the committee also agreed that this is simply a mistake, an editorial error, which should be removed. And that wasn't a discussion. The second amendment concerns Article. 147a and it is also an editorial change. This change is intended to bring about such a situation, so that it is consistent with terminology as regards the system of applicable law, about the entire legal status we have in Poland. Namely in the article. 147a §1 of the implementing code was still used for the term "health care establishment', when that name was eliminated in the Act on Medical Activity, and it was therefore proposed that, in accordance with the terminology resulting from the Act on Medical Activity, the persons carrying out the medical activity should be referred to. And at this point in time, the law would say: "Who carries out a medical activity or operates a animal health establishment without the required entry in the register or records, is punishable by arrest... etc. So, in short, these are two editing changes. The first amendment concerns a situation where the rule is sort of empty and the second amendment concerns terminology harmonisation as far as the legal system is concerned. I ask the High Senate to accept these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u40	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The text of the Act is contained in print No 769 and the report of the Commission In print No 769 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Commission examined this law and adopted it in a vote without amendments. I would like to remind you that the Act deals with judicial costs in civil matters, only civil ones, which is not extended to criminal cases, and introduces certain facilities for persons seeking certain claims, because it concerns claims whose investigation is based on noble motives and the need to protect certain very important values related inter alia. with the protection of the good name of the Polish people or with the investigation of claims, which are the result of the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes or aggression crimes. I'll admit that as a practice, I've applied for one amendment. Namely, I noticed that the mere exemption from the application fee is little, because this is only the first step towards enabling these claims to be settled without the involvement of funds which are related to judicial fees. Well, court fees aren't just a charge on a lawsuit for which we introduce such an exemption, but they're also an appeal fee or some expenses related to the need to pay an expert. I therefore assumed that, if this is to be a real convenience for those who are seeking these claims, which I mentioned earlier, it would be necessary to do so in a consistent manner, especially since, ladies and gentlemen, the effects in my opinion will not unduly burden the state budget. Let's remember that the appeal case doesn't always take place, because the statistics show that about 50% cases are won. If the party who is exempt from the application fee loses the case Like I said, it could be up to 50%. This will appeal. Well, it's similar when it comes to these other charges, e.g. from experts who, in my opinion, can perform quite occasionally. But it would also be appropriate for these parties, since we have already opened up their access to the court, to ensure that this access is consistent and not to act on the principle of granting a residual privilege. First we give something, and then it is not continued, and it is not possible to pursue specific claims effectively. Well, that's because it all comes down to effectiveness. If we are creating a legal instrument, we should make sure that this instrument is effective and not just a substitute for effectiveness. In my view, only the exemption from the charges for a lawsuit creates only a substitute for the effective opening of access to the courts for these people, in those particularly important ones, because of the subject-matter of the investigation, the subject-matter of the proceedings, the subject matter of the proceedings simply It's specific. Therefore, I allow myself to make this amendment, which, as a rule, extends this exemption so that it concerns not only charges for the application, but also other charges, appeals and other remedies. Sometimes these may be faulty issues concerning complaints, e.g. complaints about the suspension of conspiracy or any other judgment that will accidentally occur in the course of the proceedings. It is also a matter of exemption, as I said earlier, from the costs of the expert's opinion. I allow myself to make this request in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[There's still an amendment.]] But there's an amendment. Whose? [[Zbigniew Cichonia.]] Senator Cichoń has tabled an amendment, as I hereby inform you. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 771, and the report of the Commission In print No 771 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions on the revision of the Prison Service Act and some other laws. This law is another element of the reform of the Polish penitentiary system. It aims to redesign the recruitment and training system of the Prison Service staff. The law pursues this objective by introducing a number of solutions, which consist inter alia. the establishment of a public university under the Ministry of Justice, called the Prison Service University, which educates its own staff at the level of 1st and 2nd degree studies, the introduction of a new form of service training at the university, called candidate service, the introduction of a centralised and harmonised system of recruitment of candidates for the Prison Service in order to introduce a uniform model of competence of a Prison Service officer in the country; the regulation of the system of initial, vocational, specialist and professional training of officers and employees of the Prison Service. A few questions were asked during the committee's work. The discussion was quite short. The High Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u44	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 770 and the report of the Commission In print No 770 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Law on the amendment of the Telecommunications Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 22 March 2018. On 28 March 2018, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. This is printing number 770. The Commission held its meeting on 10 April. A few information on the bill. The aim of the Act is to increase the degree of electronicisation of telecommunications activities, to reduce paper records in the relationship between telecommunications operators and subscribers and administrations, and to ensure that users are adequately protected. The Act amends several laws, including the Telecommunications Law. In this respect, it introduces, among others, a new form of contract for the provision of telecommunications services, i.e. a documentary form. So far there has been a written form and electronic form, and now there will be an additional form of contract, so-called. Documentary form. The amendment also modifies the conditions for the provision of services with increased charges and aims to increase the protection of users of these services min. by imposing new obligations, in particular information, on service providers with increased charges, it also provides the possibility to block unwanted services with increased charges. I think it's very important. This Act also removes permanent amicable consumer courts at the President of UKE in connection with the entry into force on 10 January 2017 of the Act of 23 September 2016 on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The Act allows the President of UKE to impose a penalty in respect of breaches of obligations identified as a result of the checks, irrespective of the infringement of the post-control procedure. The Act waives the obligation to impose penalties for any breach of the obligation to provide information or documents to the President of UKE, the Office for Electronic Communications. It is also important that the law adopted by the Sejm amends the Crisis Management Act of 26 April 2007 by introducing a mechanism for the transmission of an alert message. On the basis of this revised law, you will be able to use text messages, of course, after the whole procedure, i.e. after first informing the government crisis management centre or crisis management centers in individual voivodships... You will be able to send text messages, i.e. only in the area where the event takes place. We're talking here, I don't know, like. About storms, floods. The point is that this area is defined by individual BTSs and can be transmitted by text messages with threat information. This is very important. So far, it's been a little different, you should have called for information. Some municipalities, cities put in this alarm system, but you had to report there, register, and then this information... And now all phone users, including people from European Union countries who are staying in Poland, will be included in this. This is very, very important, because such threats, such situations have happened and will happen. That's why such short information, text, quick information is very necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few other minor changes that are provided for in the Act. At the committee meeting, which took place, as I said, on 10 April, after a rather interesting discussion, the Legislative Bureau presented its comments. There were some comments, 5 comments on the bill, and the proposals for amendments were taken over, also by me. But the amendment was also tabled by Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. This is an important amendment concerning the deadlines in the Act. Well, the Act states that the President of the Office of Electronic Communications will agree with the relevant Energy Minister for Frequency Reservations There was this frequency, its ranges And it will be done by April 30th. It therefore appeared that under that law he would have to make these arrangements and that the law would not yet enter into force. These are the dates of entry into force and, therefore, such a change was necessary here. There are also several other amendments, in part they are tidying up. I don't think these amendments are substantive, they're ordering this bill so that there's no ambiguity here. With regard to the entry into force of the Act, there is also a change here. And that's pretty much everything we agreed on. Of course, there was a vote on these amendments. All the amendments were adopted unanimously, six senators voted in favour and four senators voted in favour and two senators abstained. And now some more information about what it looked like at the committee meeting. There's been a discussion. What was it about? First of all, two fundamental issues. One of them was an important issue that was raised in the Seym. I recall that in the Sejm the issue of this paperwork and changes in contracts by telephone was raised. We also discussed this at the committee meeting. The chairman of the committee also received letters, letters from the Polish Chamber of Information Technology and Telecommunications, from the Leviathan and a letter from the national cash register, which concerned the Cooperative Savings and Credits Fund. These first two letters concerned the relevant issues of the discussion that took place at the committee meeting. These contents were converging. What was that all about? The point was that we have now, as I said, 3 versions of contracts: written, electronic and additional, documentary. As regards this paper version, when concluding contracts in a paper version, all annexes It can be price lists, regulations, etc. It must also be in paper version. If anyone wants to, they can get an electronic version. The point is, it's some kind of page, you could say, about 50 pages on average. After all, we get some regulations, changes, etc. by mail home. It's usually a little book. Taking into account the number of contracts concluded - A few million a year. It must be said that it is actually quite important to save on paper and keep it in electronic form, especially these days. This raised some controversy, as well as the fact that, as a result of these changes, the contract could not be changed by telephone. The point is, if we're gonna change the deal on the phone, and we want her to come into force right away... After the shift, it's gonna take a while to get information about the change, and we have to answer it, and that's probably gonna take some time. These are the two cases... The bill introduces quite important, important elements, for example, as I said, the issue of this notification, which is very important, a new way, a form of contract, etc. I'm sure the Minister will tell you about that. The Minister explained it, by the way. This is not only a written form, but also an electronic form. The person who will sign the contract has the right to choose and can therefore use the electronic form. So that wouldn't be a big problem. The amendments that were voted out on the committee... all voted out, we're in favour. There is also a question, a matter of importance regarding whether this change will result in more or less paperwork. I'm about to say a few sentences in the discussion. As rapporteur for the committee, I just want to say that the amendments have been adopted and the bill has been passed and passed. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u46	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any calls like that. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Marek Zagórski, who represents the President of the Council of Ministers, like to speak? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Senator Florek. There you go. Minister, I invite you here because there are questions for you. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I'm thinking about making an amendment right now... Such an amendment was tabled in the Seym. The point is to reduce paper bureaucracy. In the Seym, such an amendment was tabled so that in the article. 1 in point 3, delete point (a) of paragraph 3. d. That meant we were going back to the way things were. That's where the mouth was removed. In Article 6, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 56. Minister, I have a question. If this amendment were accepted, would the number of paper documents be limited? And why was this amendment not accepted in the Sejm? And then there's the second question. I would also like you to clarify something about an important matter concerning the amendment of the agreement that was concluded in writing, in the case of... Because so far it was possible to change this contract by telephone and immediately after the change all services were available. Why are you making such a change here that it will be impossible now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! To clarify this, I would like to talk more about the very idea of changes in contractual forms and in general the regulation of the relationship between the telecommunications operator and the subscriber. First of all, it must be said that the current rules are a breach of consumer protection rules. 3 years ago, the Consumer Directive entered into force, which ordered the harmonisation of these rules and we with this act. First of all, we're making this even. Secondly, it's also a reaction. At least part of it. On what is happening on the market, what is observed and on a daily basis carried out by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which, as far as telecommunications operators are concerned, estimates the number of complaints for various problems related to this market at tens of thousands. Thus, on the one hand, this law would provide the possibility of flexibly resolving or establishing contracts, establishing a relationship between a subscriber and a consumer, intended for those who are more, in quotes, more modern, more active, more open, and for those who feel less secure when it comes to modern technological solutions. That's why we introduced, first of all, three forms of contract, as the senator said. These three forms of contract are paper form, which is what we have today, electronics, which we also have today... This electronic means that it can be concluded by means of a qualified signature on the Internet, over the internet, over the network. And finally, we introduce a third form, documentary. What is this documentary form? This document form is nothing more than the possibility of concluding a contract remotely by means of various media. This form can be a text message, can be a recording on a recorder, this form will finally be, most commonly used, a telephone call or And above all, the major operators are preparing today, mostly them. To conclude these contracts through the application, in the form of an application. Thus, as if we are introducing this element of modernity in a very clear and very drastic way. At the same time, we also leave for these less digitally advanced citizens a formula in the form of the possibility of concluding a paper contract. The subscriber will choose how he wants to enter into a contract, but he will choose from what the operator will offer him. So the operator doesn't have to offer paper form. In addition, we introduce a general rule that says that in the form in which the contract was concluded, the entire turnover associated with the contract will take place, unless the subscriber wishes otherwise, i.e. He'll wish for, for example. that, after the conclusion of the contract in paper form, any information will be provided to him by e-mail. What does that mean in practice? In practice, that means... There's only one exception when this paper is still there, and that's what the senator said. When I conclude a contract in a subscription office or anywhere, but in paper form, then I should get a paper version, because since I wished I wanted to have this contract in paper form, it is a presumption that I do not have the ability to use any electronic media or trust them. Because so far, the practice has been so... Well, sometimes, it wasn't common, I'm not talking about all the operators here. But sometimes the practice was that the contract was in paper form, and the price list, i.e. a very important element of the contract, the rules, the essential element of the contract, were passed on either on flash drives, or on CDs, or were transferred to an account that ad hoc was intended for the subscriber. And he never got to it again. We have therefore made such a decision that if a citizen wishes to conclude a paper contract, we assume that he should get these important, most important documents at the first moment. And this is the first... This is the premise that explains why yes and why we do not want to accept the proposed change. The second point that the senator was talking about is how it might not be concluded, but a revised agreement. Today, a formula is acceptable, in which a conversation recorded in full can change the contract. And after saying the sacramental yes, I agree with these services in a new form, revised, in a new price, on new terms they can be provided immediately. And, moreover, the subscriber had the opportunity to change it within 14 days. In consumer law, which we refer to today, there is this principle. In general, outside the telecommunications market Of course, it is possible to change the contract by telephone, but the provision of services under new conditions can only take place after confirmation by the subscriber or by the consumer, with a deadline of 30 days for confirmation or withdrawal. So first of all, we're even with consumer regulations, but second of all, it's not like you can't... What does that mean in practice? This in practice means that you will be able to provide these services almost immediately if... Because what does it mean to confirm? I mean. e.g. the sending of the confirmation e-mail. It's not just on the phone... Because what's important is that we give up our obligation to record conversations. That's important, too. It's just that. to the e-mail address indicated by the consumer either earlier in the contract or during the conversation, the content of the proposed and agreed terms and conditions was sent back to him. This could happen during this conversation, it's not... Of course, this is a slight complication with the current process, but if we compare the consumer's interest here with this slight complication on the operator's side... We believe that this is not an excess solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u50	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Marek Zagórski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on public collective transport. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 768 and the committee's report In print No 768 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a bill amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The amendment of the Law of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport aims to bring it into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016. This Regulation amends Regulation EC The Regulation entered into force on 24 December 2017 and is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the rules on direct conclusion of contracts on a non-trade basis have been amended. The organiser of public collective transport has been granted the right to negotiate with an entity which has only expressed an interest in participating in the tendering procedure without the need to re-published a notice of intent to tender. But three conditions must be met here. One of these conditions is that the entity proves that it is capable of providing a transport service in accordance with the obligations laid down in the public transport contract. The second condition: the absence of competition is not the result of artificially narrowing the parameters of the contract. Third condition: there is no reasonable alternative. In addition, the organiser of public collective transport is required to provide interested parties with information relevant for the preparation of the tender under the tendering procedure, including details of the infrastructure specifications. The scope of information provided by public transport organisers to the Marshall of the voivodship, who is obliged to prepare summary information concerning public collective transport by bus and rail transport, has also been extended. It also introduces a provision which allows the conclusion of 1 contract for the provision of public public transport services in rail transport, which covers inter-voivodeship and international passenger transport. The definition of rail transport was also clarified to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Collective Transport Act of 28 March 2003. The Act also contains provisions aimed at fulfilling the obligations imposed by the European Commission in connection with the ongoing process of notification of public aid granted to the company "Regional Transports' sp. z o.o. in 2015 for restructuring. It will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions relating to the direct conclusion of contracts, as well as the provision granting the organiser of public collective transport the right to negotiate with the entity which has only expressed an interest in participating in the tendering procedure. Those exempted provisions shall enter into force on 3 December 2019. The Committee on Infrastructure proposes that the High House adopt 1 amendment. This is a clarification amendment. Mr Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to adopt a law with one amendment adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u52	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator, come in. There's a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, this law, as you said, aims to ensure compliance of national legislation with European Union law and imposes new reporting obligations on public collective transport organisers. Were these reporting obligations mentioned at the committee meeting and what are the responsibilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u54	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u55	No, no, there was no question at the committee meeting about the responsibilities, but this amendment refers to these responsibilities. The point is that there is no clarification in the legislation as to whether the legislator refers to the provisions of the Act on public collective transport in the current or amended wording. This is needed in order to avoid possible interpretational doubts. This amendment states that the organisers of public collective transport referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 pt. 1 and 4 of the amended act will pass on to the Marshals of the Voivodship no later than 31 August 2018, the information referred to in Article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 6 and 7 to be added to the Act as amended by Article. 1 as amended by this Act concerning 2017. But in detail, what responsibilities... Well, actually, according to your mouth. 2 of this article will be communicated by the Marshals of the Voivodships to the Minister responsible for Transport. And I think... it's probably in this bill that I was talking about, but in detail, it wasn't discussed. Maybe the Minister will say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u56	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you, sir. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Bittel like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: No, thank you.]] No. Thank you. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise.Polish State Railways and the Law on Rail Transport. The text of the Act is contained in print No 764, and the report of the Commission In print No 764 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, where this draft law was dealt with. He was accepted by the Sejm. There the result of the vote was: 428 votes in favour, one vote against, and no one abstained. At the beginning of the meeting, Minister Chodkiewicz spoke, who mainly focused on this part of the draft law, which talks about regulations preparing the investment of the midway railway in Łódź. It is about preparing the project legally, i.e. so that it is not necessary to expropriate in the tunnel construction area, and to introduce statutory restrictions on this investment, because the tunnel is built underneath, and upstairs there are plots in the city centre, and if we had not prepared this law, this investment would be virtually impossible. She's supposed to be done by 2022. It's very necessary and necessary. Therefore, the Act prepares these legal changes. That's the first aspect. The second aspect of the bill is, in general, the historical railways and matters which have not yet attracted the attention of parliamentarians in our parliament. Namely, these are the conclusions of collecting societies, associations that deal with the protection of railway heritage in Poland. There was a special team at the Infrastructure Committee. He prepared various opinions and postulates, which were then discussed jointly with the Ministry of Infrastructure. From this point on, I would like to thank Minister Bittel, who is in the Chamber, for his opening up to matters requiring statutory changes, as well as the Vice President of the Railway Transport Office, Mr Kamil Wildem, the Director of Buczyński and Karol Ozgowicz, and Mark Sabalski, who have taken matters on the margins so far with understanding. And these are very important issues from the point of view of not only the interests which are the subject of the pro-rail associations, but above all the important from the point of view of the protection of the heritage, which is our national heritage. This concerns, firstly, that railway companies and the Polish State should not interfere with those who are involved in the protection of their heritage and, secondly, that the activities of these associations could be strengthened. This is about two aspects. The first aspect is related to the transfer of railway assets, which is after the repair of railway networks. That's what they're called. old-fashioned materials. Thanks to this law, the association will be able to obtain such materials for the renovation of its railway space. And secondly, it's about mobility, locomotives, actually steam cars, and the whole rolling stock, which is of particular historical importance. And that's exactly what the bill says. As far as the work of the team is concerned, he has been doing this for several months. In fact, the culmination of this activity was a session that we organized together with PKP Cargo here in the Senate. Besides, Marshal Borusewicz was also a guest and interested in these matters. As regards the continuation of the committee's meeting, the legislator made some comments on the provisions relating to the donation agreement and on the free transfer of donations. This was then taken into account by the committee. There was further a short discussion because the representative of the associations, Mr Piotr Nowicki, further argued the need for further legislative changes. There's a lot of demands. The Ministry is open here, but without the appointment of an interministerial team to deal with these issues, some issues will not be open to us at all. He has already gone to Prime Minister Morawiecki to call such a team so that he can practically act and for the benefit of railway monuments prepare further legal changes. Mirosław Szymański from PKP Cargo, who is also passionate about railroads, has made a request related to unique railroads and this case... Here, I think, there will also be a need for statutory changes in the future. At the committee meeting, the said law was passed, there were six votes in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. In conclusion, I would like to say that this law is a very important step, a milestone in the fight for historical railway heritage and infrastructure, but it is just opening up opportunities to save monuments. And we are hoping for further assistance from the ministry so that we can modify this law to a large extent. Because this is also about further matters, including the transfer of real estate. And we talked about a lot of aspects, like. The national railway museum, which we do not have in Poland, should be such an institution and from every point we appeal to the state authorities to prepare such a concept. Because Poles, Polish Railways for their contribution to the development of the economy such a national museum or a consortium of museums should be. So much for the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u58	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u59	Mr. Senator, unfortunately for some reasons, I have heard less of your speech, but this ending has shown that you have talked quite extensively about the issue of railway investments and especially railway monuments. Please tell me: will this bill give you a chance to increase funding for the modernisation of monuments? The reason I'm asking is that in my town, in my region, only when the president turned the railroad to the D.A.'s office did he report that the monument was falling, so that the roof wouldn't collapse. But they say there's no ordinary means of taking care of this railway monument, beautiful, to take care of it. Did you talk about it? In addition to making it easier, will this bill save what is worth saving?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u60	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u61	Mr. Senator, this wasn't on the committee, but I'll tell you what's going on. I'll try to cut it short, 'cause I'd have to talk here by morning. As has been said here, we have been trying to invite representatives of associations who take care of railway monuments and take care of them for 2 years as part of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure. These are mainly moving monuments, because the properties are property of the PKP. And there's a problem with the transfer of these properties. This is a legal issue. There's no way they're being passed on. And there is a situation that many monuments are destroying. And as long as we don't have legal regulations, this isn't gonna get better. We have many such examples in Poland. This is what we talked about at a conference that was organized in the Senate last year in spring. As far as the law itself, which we are proceeding today, a step in the right direction, of course, is that it will be possible to obtain... those associations that have the right qualifications, the right experience, etc., will be able to receive railway property, mainly movable property. I'm talking about steam cars, locomotives, wagons, here are the types, etc. They will be able to continue to take care of them. It is also about old-fashioned materials, i.e. those that come from demolitions, so that they can be transferred to renovations or narrow railroads or others. So that there's this... And as far as monuments are concerned, there is still no idea at the moment, what about railway monuments. I know what problems Piła has with the roundworm, and there are very, very many such places in Poland. But we know for ourselves that if it weren't for the association, most of them would have been ruined by now. There's the ministry's attitude right now that... well, the ministry doesn't have any in its statutes and in its legal duties to care for monuments. This is an interministerial problem. Without the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Ministry of Finance, this cannot be solved comprehensively, because we will continue to be in the sphere of wishes. So we're working on it, and we're hoping it'll work out. It's going slow, but it's legally difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u62	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Infrastructure.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Are you the Minister of Infrastructure... No. [[I have a question for...]] But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Because there are questions, go ahead, Minister, to the podium. And Senator Alexander Swed is asking the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, the purpose of the bill, as the rapporteur said, is to improve the implementation of investments and to provide more effective care for railway monuments. Taking advantage of the opportunity... It so happens that in my senate district, in Kłodzek, there is a big investment in the reconstruction of the Kłodzko City railway station. I would like to ask for written information about this investment and the schedule of work and resources for this investment and for all other investments in the Wałbrzych Voivodeship in Poland. Because I know there's a few investments like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u64	I'd be happy to give the information in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to take this opportunity. You know the situation of the historic railway station, the beautiful, most beautiful in Poland, Sosnowiec Maczki, there were various ideas, the Silesian University of Technology was to occupy... Well, here, during the course of the questions, there was such a sentence that there was a lack of a railway museum in Poland. I think this giant building would be very good for that. But what is the situation of this station, and what does the PKP intend to do with it? I'd really like to hear the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u67	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u68	Thank you so much for asking. This is a specific issue not covered by this submission, but I will reply briefly, and I will be pleased to present the detailed written information to the senator. Indeed, the investment started, there were even declarations of cooperation related to the performance of scientific and teaching functions in this facility, but they unfortunately did not materialise, did not turn into concrete. Together with the local government, a solution is being sought, so that this station is developed and renovated to obtain the kind of frame that is historically due to it, and proper, decent appearance. And this is the work that the PKP is doing, and in this area It's working. [[I'll also ask for a written reply.]] Okay, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u69	Okay, Minister. Now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question isn't strictly about the text of the bill, it's about matters that concern the average people. Namely, it is a question transferred from one of my senators, on which a person simply filed a complaint about the operation of the railways. This person leases the land on which she built the garage from her own funds. And now, unfortunately, it has been placed in this situation: either she buys the garage for a very large amount of money, which means that she will pay double or the rent rate will be significantly increased. And here's the question: don't you think the railroad should be leaving by now, quitting? I don't know how to say it. From the function of a quarry and just to deal with issues closely related to rail transport? Maybe this side thing should just go down like this. to the municipality if it owns the land on which the apartments stand or just places like this, e.g. garages, maybe she should pass it on to the municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u71	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very interesting problem. It concerns the way the Polish railways operate and the scope of activities that should be undertaken in the field of land management. I will only draw attention to the fact that when we think about the company Polskie Koleje Państwowe Spółka Akcyjna, we must remember And you have to keep that in mind at any time. That it is a company which has a historical debt, pays a historical debt of PLN 700 million. She actually has a lot of real estate, but she has to manage it on market terms, in a way that makes money. As far as this particular case is concerned, we would need to reach out to his genesis, find a reason, we would really need to find out who owns the area on which the garage stands, to find out what the reasons are, the reasons for the problem that the senator here told us. This does not change the fact that one of the main sources of PKP's revenues We're not talking about transport companies, we're not talking about the infrastructure manager, we're talking about the PKP company, we're also talking about the management of the real estate that it owns in its assets, so that it can finance past debts. As for the step in such a way that municipalities can acquire land from the PKP in accordance with the rules of law, this is a communication matter. The commune can get that kind of land. The housing aspect. Of course, I also believe that we should get out of housing management and hand these apartments over. There are appropriate laws. Unfortunately, the formal situation of the land, the land, is sometimes very complicated. However, one must strive to get out, so to speak, from the housing stock and simply hand these apartments over to people in situations where it is possible, or to municipalities, if such a path is also open, and not to manage it, i.e. to give up this aspect of functioning. However, in these cases it can be said that there are many years behind. So that at the moment we are focusing on the formal ordering of something that should have been done years ago, that is, the ordering of cases concerning areas under railway lines. Well, you have to remember that such works have not been done, but are currently being conducted and should bring effect in the form of introduction from PKP SA to PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe property under railway lines. At the same time, this will stabilise the formal situation of these two actors so that it is as enshrined by the legislator in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u73	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... an additional question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u74	It is related to the Minister's reply. That's a long, long time ago. This was the case at the beginning of the two thousand years, that the Germans, displaced people who moved to Germany, later asked the Polish authorities to return their assets, properties. This concerned both dwellings and buildings. But it was a very specific case, namely for these properties there were no complex perpetual books. And then the Polish authorities tried to clean up this case, i.e. both the municipalities that owned the land as well as the state, the Treasury, these books assumed. But then, interestingly enough, she was also... well, maybe not so much forced, as the railroad is being urged. Question: what does this process look like at the moment for the railroad? That's what I'm asking about your answer to the previous question. How is this process advanced at the moment when it comes to railroads? Do you have these permanent accounts cleared? What's the percentage, if any? Because it's important that someone, some private owner, maybe from abroad, doesn't finally come forward for a plot that lies, for example. across some important railway line.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u75	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u76	Thank you very much. It is this process I have mentioned that is intended to be used for ordering. We estimate that about 15% railway areas are not regulated and this will be a problem, so you need to will simply take regulatory action in this regard. Well, here's the rest of it ready and what's left of it. Because part is already introduced to PKP PLK... So the work is going on and there shouldn't be a problem here. Of course, we see, to a lesser extent, issues relating to the claims of individual operators, but we seem to see more difficulty with the judicial line of the administrative courts in the field of the communalisation of railway areas. And that's a bigger problem for us right now. We're working on it, and we're gonna have to face it soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u78	Minister, surely the organizations that are passionate about saving the monuments of the Polish railways, saving narrow-track lines will be pleased with these solutions. But I would also like to ask: are you considering, as part of this good approach, the possibility of trade-free transfer of historic property, of course for public benefit purposes, to NGOs? As you know, local governments have the opportunity, but today you have to do it on a ship, that is, yes: you can possibly pass it on. It's to the local government, and the local authorities can possibly pass it on. And I think the case should be shortened. I mean... I am glad that Senator Gawel is so well aware of the issues of railway infrastructure that he even used the common name of the Pilski Roundworm, where the association would like to invest in order to create a branch of the Silesian railway museum. This moveable law would certainly be useful, but there is still the issue of this building, which has saved the railroad from collapse under pressure, but associations cannot afford to spend large amounts of money that could possibly be invested in functioning. Are you expecting a change in this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u80	Thank you very much. I think the local government is legally... If the local government gets the land from the railroad whether the building for communication purposes, it is not very likely that such a building or area can pass on to a public benefit organisation unit which will not pursue such a purpose. So, to put it this way, there's nothing you can do about the ship... [[It's mostly for museum purposes...]] But the purpose of the museum is not the purpose of communication. Yes? Rather, these are the areas that are transferred to station functions, intermodal hubs, parking lots... [[The old steam truck...]] Yeah, okay. That's exactly how I understand it. He can't get this land, this building, he can't get the local government, and he can't give it to a non-governmental institution. Yes? There is a formula for cooperation between these 3 entities On the basis of an agreement which the parties may conclude with each other. I do not answer clearly at the level of the Ministry of Infrastructure we do not work on giving opportunities to open up to NGOs in this direction, although, of course, looking at the demands of the environment or the work of the team, Senator Gawł's initiative, for which I thank... At this point I would also like to thank him for his commitment, because it was very big. We are thinking about a formula that could lead to a joint effort to give ourselves the chance to network a railway museum in some dimension, still undefined. From the point of view of the transfer of real estate, one more issue needs to be taken into account. It's about the State's obligations, and these state liabilities are the employee property fund and the necessity... People, railway environments, which are associated with the employee property fund, receive a deposit of 15% from the sale of real estate the value and, in the case of a non-cash transfer, there is no such deposit. We must therefore remember that from this point of view this is a matter which also has a social dimension. [[Little...]] Well, not such a small group, but described quite precisely in the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u81	Thank you, Minister. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the rapporteur, Senator Gaweł, spoke here about this historical-touristic aspect, praise him for what has been introduced into this law. But he also talked about this second aspect, about the fact that the Act modifies the rules for the preparation of investments in railway lines, complementing the current regulation on issues related to the implementation of investment projects requiring tunnel construction. I have a question for the Minister. I'm reading this bill, but I don't understand what this law is changing when it comes to building tunnels, which barriers this law is destroying. We know that tunnel construction can be carried out, for example. opencast method, hollowing method, etc. What does this law change when it comes to removing these barriers? What's gonna happen after this shift, what's gonna be quicker? What will possibly include a localization decision? Because it's very general here in this bill... It is difficult in the context of the whole investment process to understand what is going on. If you could explain that, Minister... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u84	Mr. Senator, these provisions really need to be read in the context of those that are not amended. To put it simply, the point of this bill is this. The current legal order does not provide for a layered law. Therefore, if there is an investment in a tunnel in an area owned by the State Treasury, the local government unit, only the private owner... Whether this tunnel is being dug or built by an open-air method, it is necessary to acquire the area in which it will be located, including the area on the surface of the earth. In Łódź... It can be said that these regulations are prepared on the basis of the example of Łódź, i.e. to facilitate this work there. The passage of the tunnel in Łódź is under the tenements. Therefore, the result would be to expropriate the tenement owners, build a tunnel, and then wonder if we have We, i.e. PKP, at this moment PLK. manage these tenements or somehow sell them the other way. We therefore considered it appropriate to introduce a restriction on property rights, i.e. not to collect property, leave property, just to introduce this limitation, as fair compensation, and thus simplify the activities related to the acquisition of real estate for construction purposes and obtaining a title to apply for a building permit. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u85	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u86	Minister, then I have a question... I recall that a draft of such a law on layered property was once considered. Are you working on it? I think that would definitely solve all these problems. Is the Ministry working on a bill like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u87	If you'll allow the marshal... I know that this kind of work has been done. No success in previous terms at the Ministry of Infrastructure level as well as at the Ministry of Justice. No, we're not working on it right now, but we can see that this is the moment at which for such work, interministerial, because I think it will also be necessary to change the civil code... Well, we have to bring them together. It's like a repeated postulate or waiting. The senator repeats the request also expressed in the Sejm. We see it too.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u88	I have a question for you too, Minister. In connection with the law allowing tunnelling 'Cause it's about digging tunnels. Without expropriation, you don't need to change the civil code like you just mentioned? And second question. Will there be a similar action when it comes to road tunnels? Because railway tunnels are just one piece, I don't think it's the most important... I'm sorry, not the hardest one, that's what I was gonna say. I understand that you, as a railroadman, may be offended, but that's not the most common problem, that's not the most common problem. And the road tunnels... Well, I guess there's an analogy here. The question is whether you think about expanding it further. Yes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u89	Of course, these rules will have to be consistently extended, if needed, to other investment sectors. It goes on for example. The subway. If someone wanted to build further sections not under the street layout, as in principle, it took place in Warsaw, it would also be necessary here, of course, but then we come here more... This is a question of layered law and ordering the entire segment, and at this point in my opinion, the amendment of the Civil Code is not necessary in the context of this submission, which was put under the Senate's deliberations today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u90	I have one more question, Minister. Does this law only apply to this one tunnel under Łódź?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u91	No, no. She's referring to... [[Or train tunnels?]] She's involved in railway tunnels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u92	All right. I don't want to argue with you, but it's not an accident bill. I thought this was just about that tunnel under the Łódź. [[There's usually an ocean under the boat.]] I understand that changes to the civil code are not to be expected here either. [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Yes, sir.]] The Minister thinks it shouldn't be changed. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by senators Alexander Sweed and Czesław Ryszka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. This law must be welcomed. The landlords of the historic buildings will surely be pleased to receive it, knowing that they will be able to own the movable property of the historic buildings. Self-governments or NGOs will also be able to receive some demolition elements. It's very valuable, because it's actually today that to save some vehicles, it just gets stuck with... I think I said wrong. It takes from various vehicles antique elements, so that all of this still has this antique character. [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. But that's only half the solution to the problem. The Minister, in answer to my question, clearly showed it. In fact, today, in order to save major railway monuments, we also need serious investments. It must be said that what is most valuable here and which does not entail any high risk is already functioning in one or another formula. This bill will help strengthen it, okay, but there are many monuments that are much more problematic. It's all about money. At my place, in Pile, the round guy that Senator Gawel was talking about here, without that pressure, the railroad wouldn't even touch. He would just collapse, destroy himself, and it's a unique construction, really worthy of serving people, all the more so that our neighborhood is full of railroad lovers, not only in Wolsztyn. You spoke to the Minister about networking. Yeah, maybe it's worth thinking about making it work online, and it could serve the tourist railroad crossings, for example through Piła. After all, the Blues Express train, thanks to the railway, arrives to the nearby bush and transports tourists and blues lovers. The association, which has been and probably is still interested in this, has received such an offer that, yes, it can take this object, but in the tender. The amount that has been offered, even after further reductions, is Not only for this, but also for any other such organisation It's unbearable. The effect is that although a protective roof object has been made, it doesn't really bring glory to anyone, it doesn't serve anyone, and in the local community the railroad is very badly judged for this reason. It seems that this association is right to say that if this facility were available... Of course, when there is a donation, it is always that you define a purpose and that it must be public. You can call it all by law. I don't understand why in the situation of such problematic objects that railroads can't earn. And no one wants to do that. The non-governmental organisation is not encouraged to pass on this subject. The rules stand in the way, Mr President. I'd like to encourage... I'd like to join this job myself if I have to, so that I don't stop doing it so I can move on. Of course, let's also think of such safeguards, so that someone here doesn't make his own business so that he can't pass it on to other purposes. This can be done, it can really be done, with the need for properly constructed regulations and notarial acts. I think this is another barrier that the railroad could remove in the near future. Well, by the way, I found out something, so to speak, from underneath the lining. Many times, in this case too, I was at the PKP headquarters and no one told me about it. As it is said in our country, in Wielkopolska, and probably also in Silesia The scumbag who was stuck there. Namely, this employee property pushes you to sell what you can, and nothing, God forbid you hand it over because someone has a percentage of it. But this cannot be an excuse for the fact that monuments, often really high class, although neglected and ruined, which the association could renew and, having property, e.g. apply for funds from the European Union... It could do that, but it has to have confirmation that it really owns a given object. Now he can't do it because the rules don't allow it. Minister, I urge you to go one step further. Surely it can be done in such a way that it does not raise any doubts. You can pass on to the passionate what could be enjoyed by history lovers, lovers of good, healthy tourism and stimulate the development of many towns in many areas, bringing glory also to the Polish State Railways. This first step seems to encourage you to continue. I'm sure you'll find many allies to this extent. I'd be happy to get into this kind of work. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u94	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Gawel is next in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have said here today, the bill is a breakthrough in the approach to monuments. Senator Augustine urges the discussion, so I will allow myself to use the few minutes I have to tell you about the postulates which I hope will be able to work with the Ministry and with the railway companies in a way that will serve us all, and which we will then implement. Minister, we will be asking about the railway lines, about the possibility of lending them, of leasing them to organizations that would like to use them. This morning, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, there was a discussion about the railway lines being closed and the plans of the PKP. We hope that the Ministry will make a clear statement on the liquidation of the railway lines and on the lines that are not used today, that it will tell us what to do with these lines. This morning, there was a request to keep the communication corridors. This is a very important problem from the point of view of the interest of the Polish state, which is a general and overriding interest. The corridors must remain because we do not know what transport and communication will look like in the future. And if we get rid of the earth, we won't be able to rebuild it any more. I think it's pretty clear. I hope that the Ministry will speak publicly about this in the near future. What was said here, about real estate... There are a lot of cases. The Minister knows them well about old historical objects, which have historical significance and which are destroyed by the fact that the railroad was unfortunately unable to take care of them, and nature has definitely taken care of them. It was like this. in Pyskowice, where the historical steam station collapsed. Snow fell on her, who just didn't have anyone to clean it up, and half the steam trucks collapsed. We showed it on the slides. Come on. With regard to matters relating to the financing of social and museum organisations, this is a question of the future. It seems to me that this is a matter of sound budgetary management, including railway companies. Minister, we need to consider what is the overriding interest here, whether the interests of the company, which uses only commercial law or national interest, both in the liquidation of the lines and the maintenance of monuments. If we worked out rules that would be supported by museum institutions that care about technical and railway monuments, we could say that we are able to prepare a plan to save these monuments. Come on. The case of the national railway museum, which is a matter that has been discussed here for several years. Today we have such a situation that the Ministry of Infrastructure has no competence to run and support the financial museum, and the Ministry of Culture has no money to do so. Besides, there's a good will, except without public money, you can't build a museum like this. There are several objects in Poland that we are discussing, we are talking about Tczew, we are talking about Gniezno. In Gniezno is Europe's largest preserved facility of this type and if you do not help save this facility, it will fall apart. Xcity, a company that belongs to the PKP group, has developed the concept of developing the entire railway space in Gniezno and could actually be used commercially, but also for museums and cultural development. Come on, Minister. We will also call for regulation of the traffic rules of historical vehicles in museum facilities. We're about to have a big parade in Wolsztyn. It's a shame there's no Senator Libicki, he's always there every year. There is a problem with traffic at Wolsztyn station because, as we know, some steam trucks will ride in cargo warehouse, so according to the law, but moving around the station, this is already a question mark. And here we're going to need the help of the Railway Transport Office to sort things out in terms of historical transport and special trains that serve tourists and rail enthusiasts. Here's another thing. The rules for the financing of narrow-track railways. Ladies and gentlemen, most of these railways are after the aegis of district governments who have no money to sustain them. If a fund could be created to support narrow-track railways, we would be able to rebuild these tourist railways within a few years. Actually today, the best results in Poland are from the Znin railway, but this is due to the fact that it is located in extremely attractive tourist areas. Venice, Biskupin There are a lot of tourists there, well, you can say that the cultural institution that works there has income. Come on. Cases related to carrier's licenses. I've been talking about this before, and these are things that are very obsessed with all these passionate people. Technical oversight cases. I'm sure you don't know... When an old engine is renovated, the association that does so must commit its own resources. Renovation of such a steam engine is PLN 300.500 thousand, but every 6 years it is necessary to make such renovations because of the fact that these are regulations. And the rules are archaic, because they refer to the time when steam cars were driving in constant motion and when such a steam engine was walking for 2 months actually all the time. The point is that you don't have to undress the whole boiler, do it. total revision, only to adopt other, new, modern diagnostic principles, such as: stethoscopes. At the moment, we're at such a stage that technical supervision in Chabówka wants to perform this examination with a stethoscope. We're counting on it to make it easier, too... that it's gonna save the association's money first and foremost. 'Cause where are they supposed to get them? These are private people, these are people who put their heart into it. It's about helping the state, the offices that are under our control. And, of course, the question of definition, the rules for the destruction of railway vehicles, just as it is deleted. cars. The point is to have a broader approach to it. We talked about this transfer of property. Minister, let's face it, it hasn't been very good so far. Railway companies cut the rolling stock, which was often unique, because they have to carry out their financial results. They've got unnecessary rolling stock, they're cutting it. In such tenders, the association actually has no chance of dealing with scrap metal. And even on the spot you have to cut the foot of the wagon, you have to smash in the place what is the history of Poland, railway, also post-war. So I think there's a lot of work ahead of us. I would like to thank you for this good will, because actually without good will, without such a human approach, there is no passion to do certain things about our common heritage. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The text of the Act is contained in print No 766 and the report of the Commission In print No 766 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. There was a debate yesterday and we unanimously approved the bill with the following amendment: in Article. 1 in point 3, in point 2a, the words distributed in the broadcast shall be replaced by those contained in the broadcasts or distributed simultaneously with them. I would like to inform you that this is a senate project, which was developed by the subcommittee of the Sejm, very carefully prepared. This is intended to serve amenities for people with disabilities watching TV shows. The point is to increase it by 10%. up to 50% of the quarterly transmission time could be followed by successive transmissions. This is the case: in 2019. - up to at least 15% ; 2020 and 2021 to at least 25%; in 2022 and 2023. To at least 35%; in 2024. Up to at least 50%. I would just like to explain to my fellow senators who have not attended or are not on the subject, that we all care about the subject, and it has been a long time for people with disabilities to benefit from the broadcasts to have easier access to it. This is essentially the case for 3 types of amenities. One, very simple, which is actually already, are subtitles. When we watch movies... The second is sign language, which is a convenience for the deaf. The third, the hardest and most expensive, is the audiodescription. This would allow videos to be accessible to blind people. I can only say that this part is the biggest burden. During the debate, Senator Hamerski asked about the costs of preparing this and got a very reliable answer from the expert... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please come through because I can't concentrate. [[Yes, please, Mr. Senator...]] But not anymore... Mr. Marshal, thank you so much for your help. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm gonna finish this quick. If you'd like to know what this is all about... I did this for the movies. During the audiodescription of the film not only the dialog text is read, but it is also told that e.g. Clint Eastwood playing John is on a horse and John Wayne is after him... Well, in a word, it's a pretty big procedure. This process is costly and can have an impact on the capacity of small stations to implement it. There was a speech, for example. The kind of station that's being watched all over the world, which is Ale Kino. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka explained some things. I just want to add that there is no country in the world yet that would lead to 100% TV programmes are available to people with disabilities. Mr. Marshal, I've tried... It's outside the committee's report. The best I can do is answer the question... I would like to see the definition of persons with disabilities in the press for the public debate, including the one used in the media. Because that's how we talk about people like that now. I'm talking about it because I have a blind assistant and we talked about it in the Senate. It's about us senators and people... It's quite easy to adopt this term, but the law obviously refers to people with disabilities. I don't think it's a delicacy, but in the future, we'll postulate to use that phrase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Mr Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State. Minister, do you wish to speak on this matter or not? It may be so, and it may not. There you go. [[But it's got a two-minute limit.]] No, there isn't. [[Sorry, I forgot, there's...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, there isn't. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] In terms of regulations, Minister, you don't have a limit at all. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u99	Thank you. In that case, I'll limit myself... just give a brief presentation of the government's position. The draft Act amending the Act on Radio and Television aims to increase the percentage of programmes with facilities for disabled people from 10% up to 50%. The project was developed in response to the request contained in the petition addressed to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The project developed by the Senate was enriched with solutions prepared in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because such a project was already prepared. The main aim of the project is to gradually increase the facilities for disabled people, subtitles, sign language, audiodescription In order to achieve the objective of 50% The show had such facilities. In addition, the project gives the National Radio and Television Council an obligation to clarify the statutory obligation, in particular by indicating the proportion of the different types of facilities. The National Radio and Television Council will also be required to determine how the audience will be informed about the timing of programmes containing facilities for disabled people. On 22 February, the Council of Ministers adopted a positive position of the government vis-à-vis the bill. According to the position, the project deserves support, as an increase from 10% up to 50% programmes accessible to disabled people are intended to facilitate active participation in culture and reception of television programmes. The Council of Ministers also welcomed the proposal to gradually increase this obligation, which will not be unduly burdensome for broadcasters. I can only add that public television representatives yesterday in a conversation with me declared that they would adapt much faster to the greatest possible participation of programmes for people with disabilities in order to increase their ability to watch them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u100	Thank you very much. Are any of your senators... Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, yesterday at the committee meeting we learned, among others. that this raises a great deal of interest among people with disabilities and asks about the date of introduction of facilities for people with hearing and vision impairment. As the rapporteur said, Senator, 2024 is this border year. It is assumed that at least 50% of the quarterly time will then be broadcast with these facilities, of course excluding advertising. We've been discussing this actually for a few years, and it's known that this is all about economics and money. Shouldn't the National Radio and Television Council approach the issue with more clarity, with more understanding? I'm thinking, in particular, of richer broadcasters, public television. Shouldn't she just... I am no longer talking about the deadline for introducing this solution, but about the fact that there is a greater percentage of programmes with facilities for audiences with hearing and vision defects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u102	Thank you very much, Marshal. Do any of the senators want to take the floor, or actually ask a question? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I know that the Ministry is working on a comprehensive media bill. I have a question: will this amendment from the vending machine be dragged into that media law? How's she gonna fit in with what you're working on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u104	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u105	Thank you very much. Senator, to answer your question, I'm going to say that at the moment, the biggest media, i.e. TVN, generally TVN group, or Polish Television group, public television, have an average of more than 50% in their broadcasts programs with amenities. Of course in some 80% , in some 30%... on the main antennas it's over 50%, whether on TVP One or on TVP HD, it seems to be in the main channel So is TVN. But it is important to remember that there are very many small broadcasters, and it is with them in mind that these deadlines and these thresholds have been introduced. Because I, considering that there are about 4 million people with disabilities, i.e. deaf or deaf people, people with complete blindness or a significant visual defect, I am convinced that this is an important viewer for such entities and they... This can be seen in the statistics, in the impact assessment of the regulation, in the justification of the Senate project there are precise figures which indicate that in fact these stations each year are adapting more and more programmes to the needs of people with disabilities. The National Radio and Television Council is a constitutional body that is not affected by the government, it is not a government body, so this question should rather be addressed to the National Council. It is the National Council that is required under the law to issue a regulation on the detailed conditions to be met in terms of creating facilities, so I would refer this question to the National Council. We, as a government, believe that these rules that are introduced are good and correspond to the needs and current opportunities of the market. But as I said, public television declared that it would be much faster to meet all the obligations that are indicated in the bill. We will strive to make it as much as possible, as much as possible, as a percentage of programmes with facilities for disabled people, especially those of the most important programmes, i.e. Live news and broadcasts. Thank you very much. [[Thank you...]] And as for the answer to the senator's question... We've already prepared the so-called. The Cleaning Law for the Radio and Television Act and part of the Act were among others. the rules that have been introduced here... that are being introduced into the Senate project. We have therefore excluded them from that law, because they will already be implemented, I suppose, the Senate will probably adopt this law today. I understand you're referring to the Radio and Television Act, because we're in this area. only cleaning and adjusting changes will be introduced. And these changes were included there, but they have already been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka signed up for the floor. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fedorowicz has very competently presented the report of the committee meeting rather briefly, and since I have continued the proceedings of the committee after its departure, I would like to bring some facts closer. This is, as I mentioned, our Senate Act, which amends the Act of 29 December 1992 on radio and television and aims to increase, as it is said here, from 10% up to 50% of the quarterly transmission time of the programme containing facilities for disabled persons due to visual impairment and for disabled persons due to hearing impairment. I'll add right away that, as it was said here, the level of 50% to be achieved in 2024. I do not have to stress that we are dealing with a very important social problem, the issue of equal access, actually only reducing inequalities, and even more precisely, removing barriers to people who, for reasons entirely independent of each other, cannot benefit fully from the richness of audiovisual media. The aim is to make it possible for people with disabilities, i.e. deaf, visually impaired or visually impaired, to benefit more from the TV programme by means of amenities in the form of sound or graphic elements, in particular in the form of subtitles for deaf or audiodescription, as well as translations into sign language, which give them the opportunity to get acquainted with the programme. And here I will mention that at the committee meeting it was said that these people did not really want to accept the term we use, that it was about some facilities for them. Because, of course, it's not about amenities, that is, some privileges, because it's supposed to be equal to the availability of cultural goods for everyone. It is said that the measure of development of the civilization state is, among others. the attitude towards people with disabilities, and the indicator of the integration of disabled people into society is just access to information, to the media. This applies especially to people with visual and hearing impairment. The first is 300 thousand in Poland, the second is about 100,000, but in total there are 4 million people with these disabilities who are waiting for such availability, such facilities. Let me remind you that we are in the Senate and also in the Seym... this is a matter that we have been dealing with for several years, but it is only now that we decide to introduce these higher thresholds for broadcasters. Higher, because, as I said, The 10% threshold for broadcasters of television programmes is already guaranteed in respect of this quarterly broadcasting time. Of course, this does not apply to advertising or teleshopping. Like they said here, 10%. it's not a bottom line at the moment, because there's already about 50% on public television in the first show. emissions with amenities, in the second program about 30%, and on TVP Seriale there is even 80%. Well, it's mostly about subtitles. But, of course, 10%. it is far too little, especially in comparison with the countries of the West, where people with disabilities participate much more in cultural life, and this is what television helps them to do. E.g. in the main BBC programme, this emissions with amenities exceed 90% but only in the main program, and it is known that the BBC has many antennas. Generally, there are countries where emissions with amenities are more, but it can be assumed that 50% It's a European standard. And that's the 50% threshold right there. That's the standard we're working on right now. In our law, we have introduced an investigation calendar to guarantee a 50% threshold for these elements of the programme. It's been written down for a few years. As Mr Fedorowicz said, since 2019 it is to be at least 15% , between 2020 and 2021 at least 25%, between 2022 and 2023 at least 30% and in 2024 50% the quarterly transmission time of the programme must include these facilities. This, of course, is not the end of the expectations of people with disabilities. It just doesn't satisfy them even 50%. They would like to introduce 100% as soon as possible. the level of availability of programmes. That is why, in the Sejm, we introduced these thresholds of investigation to at least 50% in the coming years, but we wrote in the Act that in 2025 the President of the National Radio and Television Council will present a report to the Sejm and the Senate on the fulfilment of these obligations of broadcasters, which are specified in the draft, but also on the possibility of increasing these facilities. So maybe that's when it turns out it's coming to 100%. it will be possible in a shorter time, especially since, as we know, technology is ahead of time today, so let's hope so... So, specifically, in these five years, with today's 10%. We will reach 50%, but it is known that this jump is not possible at one time, either technically or organisationally or financially. Such requirements simply cannot be imposed on smaller broadcasters. Because public television or commercial television already in large part, as I mentioned, in the case of their main antennas they are trying to get as high as possible percentage of such facilities. And the problem is precisely with the smaller broadcasters, whose costs and costs, and the organisation of the programmes will be extremely difficult. Just to mention the high cost of these solutions: the cost of the hour of issue with subtitles can vary between 500 PLN and the issue with a sign language translator Even up to 2 thousand PLN. In the case of audiodescription it will be much more. So on a yearly basis, it could be multi-million-dollar costs for a sender who has more antennas. Therefore, by creating these thresholds to reach 50% first, we tried in the act to middle all this out so that it was visible that on the one hand we want to make these programs available to people with disabilities, but on the other hand we count on the technical realities and financial possibilities of the sender. In this law, we have also introduced obligations for broadcasters to inform about the timing, duration and duration of programmes that are accessible to persons with disabilities. In addition, the Act introduces a provision which will allow the National Radio and Television Council to be deleted from the register of a given programme if the cable network operator or satellite platforms do not comply with the obligation to provide access to facilities for persons with disabilities. Now what? Now everything in the hands of the National Council of Radiophony and Television, as well as the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because the real implementation of this law will depend on the regulations presented by the National Council of Radiophony and Television. This will certainly consult the environments of deaf, blind, deaf and visually impaired people on what forms are best for them, whether it's audiodescription, sign language or subtitles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression and the law on road traffic. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is in print No 623, and the committee's report In print No 623 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In this kind of emergency mode, I have undertaken to report on this bill because Senator Rulewski is on a business trip. So if I didn't do my best, I'm asking you to forgive me. I remember this moment well in 2013 and early 2014, when we tried to sort out the issue of parking in marked places for people with disabilities. On the one hand, it was a question of working on people's awareness not to occupy these places, on the other hand, it was a question of abuse of previous rights that were assigned to the car and not to the person, which was an additional handicap for people with disabilities. The new rules were not easy to implement. There were delays in printing cards, there was some tension, but ultimately the goal was achieved. Today I have such signals from the environment of people with disabilities that this issue has been regulated well. But the Ombudsman pointed out that, in the context of this amendment, which allowed people with a moderate or significant disability to issue parking cards, veterans were excluded. In this sense, disengaged... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. In this sense excluded, that they would also be required to decide on the degree of disability, which many veterans, elderly people, even often elderly, would find unjustified. Indeed, in an attempt to implement the Ombudsman's request, preparations were made in the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions to amend the law on combatants in such a way that those who are oppressed during the war and post-war period would be able to make full use of the possibility of reaching places that are important to them and where envelopes with the possibility of parking are separated. The bill was supported by all clubs. It allows you to obtain a combatant card on request. We were wondering who should issue this card. As I recall, there was a dispute at committee meetings about whether it should be the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, whether it should be done by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. In the end, the second approach won. We also discussed the question of the necessary time needed for the entry into force of the law, and we extended it to 3 months in the last phase of the work. And in this version, we submit this presentation to the High House. It will allow the combatant, the veteran, to obtain a card of a combatant, which, like a parking card for disabled persons, will be assigned to a person, not to a vehicle, and which will give them the same opportunities to use parking spaces, but also ♪ Let's add ♪ If you do not comply with certain traffic ban or stop signs, you will be entitled to the same rights as those relating to people with disabilities. So, I recommend the High House to submit it. It seems to satisfy the veterans that it will not be annoying to them and that it will also find recognition in the eyes of the High House. I ask the senators to support this bill and vote in favour of it. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] Maybe I'll add another... Excuse me... [[There you go.]] ...that there was also a raised issue of costs. In general, 420,000 parking cards have been issued. It's also about... I'll give you a heads-up. This is about a group of about 4,000 people, which is not so many. It won't cost much, it's an expense of about 80,000 zlotys.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u110	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. And let me remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski. Would any of you like to ask the senator that question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Welcome to the meeting of Mr Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: No, thank you.]] Thank you. Are there any questions for the Minister? Yes, Senator Czerwinski will have a question. You're welcome, Minister, to the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With the personal presence of your marshal at the moment, I would like to ask you a question about the draft not of this law, but a slightly different one. I am a representative of the Senate in the drafting of this bill in the Sejm. This project is after first reading, it took place on 10 January and no further proceedings have been implemented so far, i.e. work in committees. And the reason for that is At least that's how it's translated. There is no government position on this matter. I am surprised because at first reading the Minister was reading the draft of this position of government. By the way, it's positive for this bill. So why is it three months late? The bill will be, practically, cost-free, the project has the support of all political forces This was the result of the first reading in the Sejm. It also has the initial approval of the government. The absence of a formal position makes the persons concerned And that's just dying out, physically dying out. They are unable to avail themselves of the very small powers that this law will give them. Minister, isn't this the time for this position?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u112	Yes, but I understand, Mr. Senator, that this concerns a completely different bill... Yes? [[Yes, yes, of course, Mr...]] But this, Mr. Senator... No, I'm taking that question away. Why don't you talk to me in your cockroaches and ask me that question? We are discussing the proposed law and please address here questions related only to this matter. I'm gonna take that question off the table. Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but in the formula I read earlier, it is clear that the questions must be related to the subject matter of the bill, not to other laws. In the clowns, please... Or there could also be a statement made by the senator. But right now, this isn't the place. Please, would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. None of you have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill, this third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Juvenile Procedure Act. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, is included in print No 602, and the committee's report In print No 602 S. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which have examined the draft law on the amendment of the Juvenile Procedure Act. The draft of this law is the implementation of a petition submitted to the Senate by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. The petitioners request the addition of a provision requiring the court to periodically review the validity of a minor's stay in the hostel, also after the case has been referred to the hearing; the imposition of a separate provision for an extension of his stay in a youth hostel, which would also include a justification and an indication of the circumstances in which such a decision may be given after the case has been referred to the court; the introduction of a procedure enabling the court's decision to extend the application of the measure to instant review. The current state is that a minor can be placed in a juvenile shelter in specific cases, namely when the circumstances in favour of placing him in a correctional facility are revealed and there is a legitimate concern about hiding a minor or covering up traces of a criminal act, or if the identity of a minor cannot be established. And the second case: exceptionally, it is also possible to place a minor in a shelter if, in addition to the circumstances in favour of placing him in a juvenile penitentiary, the criminal acts referred to in the Penal Code are accused of being punishable by a high sentence of imprisonment. I §3 provides that before referring the case to a minor's stay in a hostel, it may not last more than 3 months. Therefore, in line with the practice of family courts, no separate provision was required after the order to refer the case to the hearing to extend the minor's stay at the juvenile shelter. The only limitation regarding the length of the stay of a minor in the hostel is the provision of Article. 27 §6, which provides that a total stay in a youth hostel may not exceed one year until the judgment at first instance has been delivered. According to the European Court of Human Rights, which ruled in Grabowski's case against Poland, the main flaw of the law was that in the orders issued by the court there was no indication of the specific time limit for which deprivation of liberty has been determined, as well as the inability to challenge the order to place... In fact, there was no resolution, and therefore it could not be sued. The current proposal provides for a distinction to be made between the provision to place minors in a shelter for minors issued pursuant to Article. 27 §3 from the provisions on extension of stay in a youth hostel. Provisions on the extension of a minor's stay prior to referral to a trial under Article. 27 §4 may result in an extension of the stay at the hostel for a total period of not more than 3 months. If the case is not brought to trial after that time, the minor should be released from the shelter. The joint committees request the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Act. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and to the authorised senator, the representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? Minister Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is with us. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u115	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The Ministry of Justice welcomes your initiative, the initiative of the Senate Legislative Commission, which is the result of the petition of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. This is the result of the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights and the guidelines that have been issued. This is the judgment of June 2015 in Grabowski v Poland. Of course, the legal situation has changed. Previously, there were other stages of the procedure, and today the procedure is uniform in the case of minors. As a rule, it's a technical thing. So far, the question of indicating the legal basis for extending the duration of a minor's stay in a youth shelter... This was in the Decree of the Minister of Justice of December 2015. The Rules of Procedure of the General Courts. The petitioners meant that there should be a clear legal basis here to indicate in the order a safeguard measure in the form of a shelter for minors of a given person. This legal basis should be a statutory basis. This is a matter for which there is no doubt. As the Senator rapporteur has just said here, it was also a lack of appeal. In the old way, when the case was already at the stage of the revision procedure, it was practically, even if earlier, that provision was made in the investigation procedure for the application of a safeguard measure... Such a person may have been in detention for a very long time and there was no such legal basis. In the bill, of course. We're changing that today. And I believe that these regulations, of course, I say this on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. They're very good. It is a matter of detailing these provisions. I would also like to say by the way that we are working at the Ministry of Justice on a comprehensive amendment to the Juvenile Procedure Act. This is another approach in a few years, which is already some approach to this issue. But I think it will finally be fruitful. And I hope that as early as June we will have concrete solutions presented for consultation. And I hope we can improve these regulations. We also support the inclusion of a period of psychiatric observation into the period of application of a protective measure in the form of a shelter for minors. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u116	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. [[We won't bother the minister, he's busy.]] Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I will announce a recess in a moment, but now I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Communication: The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 50th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, Senate Printing No. 769, will take place today 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-senat-59-1.u118	Thank you very much. I'm announcing a recess until Friday, April 13th, until 11:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 14 minutes 27]]
