ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Kubov, Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr King. The first part of the session will include Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Kinga Gajewska and Krzysztof Kubów. I consider the minutes of the 63rd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws, print No 2628. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - The law on higher education and science... [[I can't hear anything. I can't hear you.]] [[Mr. Marshal, louder.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is the bell of Felczyński. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The Commission has submitted reports on draft laws: - Law on higher education and science, - Provisions introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, - amending the Act on the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions for social dialogue, - on the amendment of the Act establishing the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw, - amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2563, 2564, 2572, 2619 and 2613. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road, - amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws, - amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws, - amending the Environmental Law and the Waste Act. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2609, 2616, 2577 and 2635. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Formal applications. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u2	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Our club, the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, has already asked your marshal on 4 June to complete the agenda of the 63rd meeting of the Sejm for a point: Government information concerning irregularities in the activity of the GetBack SA debt collection company and lack of supervision of this activity. We had less information last week, only circumstantial evidence. Today's publication in the Wyborcza Gazeta reveals the content of the letter, in which the president of this company, whose activity brought about 20 thousand. Polish financial damage worth three times as much as in the case of Amber Gold, says clearly that it is related to the government camp, that its problems began from the time when he started sponsoring events at which the title of man of the year you received the Prime Minister, and the title of man of freedom, for example, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's time to debate on this, it's time to tell the government what we're calling for again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u3	Thank you. Member of Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Can I have a moment of your attention, please, because the case that we're dealing with... I'd like to apply for a recess by the hour. Eleven, Mr. Marshal. This case is extremely important. It will soon come to an attempt to break the long tradition, unwritten, but yet the rights of this House. You all know that every club has the right to report the current information that the Sejm is considering. This is the last right of opposition to submit every 2 months, once every 3 months a proposal for any debate that is important from our perspective. The state - I heard this from the Marshal's officials - you say that this law is going to be destroyed today because the information requested by the Civic Platform, because it is our turn, will be replaced by the information of the Ministry of Health, will decide here the will of the Sejm majority. We wanted to talk about the consequences of imposing penalties on Poland in connection with the article. 7. We have the right, we have the right. This is our last law in this Seym, Marshal. We ask you to respect this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u5	First thing. I very much apologise to Mr Protasiewicz, but she is not bound by the agenda, Mr Protasiewicz, it is a matter of mouth. Article 2 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In addition, I inform you that this case is on the finance committee, so I ask you to take an interest in this issue, to raise it at the level of the finance committee. The second point is indeed formal, but I inform you that in accordance with Article. Paragraph 194. 4, which reads: In the absence of a uniform opinion of the Seniors' Convention on the current information, the Sejm shall decide on the choice of information following the presentation of the case by the Marshal of the Sejm. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss these matters in the voting block, because this is a point that requires the resolution of the Sejm; we are planning a few votes. [[This is a democratic package. Your democratic package.]] There's a request for a recess. We will therefore vote on this proposal at the moment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. 153 voted against - 235, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, print No 2615. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was an objection to the completion of the agenda for this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, prints No. 2506 and 2615, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 215 voted against 186, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau gave an opinion on the proposal that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in a joint discussion of the committee's reports on Higher Education Law. At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, it was proposed that the Sejm should hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle in a joint discussion on these points. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Bureau of the Sejm for a hearing in a joint discussion of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will hear a joint discussion of ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to listen in a joint discussion of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 222 against - 182. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz - a formal proposal. Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will be voting in a moment and I would like to support the Member in order not to change the set order and to keep this information on the table requested by the Civic Platform Club. I understand the outcome of the vote, because you are convinced that the current information presented by the Minister of Health is more important, and I would like to ask you at this point to extend this information to the Minister of Health. According to the press, there was an irregularity in the tender for the dentobuses. This invitation to tender has been set. Therefore, please... It is about EU funds. It's not said that... This may have an impact on whether Poland will receive EU funds at all, since Law and Justice is not able to ensure the tender, on the contrary: it sets tenders so that companies probably related will win. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with these people. I therefore ask you to extend this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u7	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. That's one thing. Secondly, this issue can no longer be formally extended, because if this information passes, the subject is included in the title. But in the debate, we can ask you about these issues that you are asking about. We're just getting back to that point. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, two authorised entities submitted proposals on the subject of current information to be discussed at the current meeting of the Sejm. In the absence of a uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, the current Sejm will vote. The Sejm, in accordance with Article. Paragraph 194. 4a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will select this current information, which will obtain a majority of votes. This means that this information will be selected, which will receive more votes in favour. [[But how can you not be ashamed, Marshal?]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion before this vote.]] Here you go, Mr Sławomir Nitras, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! I wanted to take your word for it. A few minutes ago, when you commented on the matter, you said that according to the rules of procedure in such a situation, the Sejm would settle the matter without discussion after the Marshal had presented it to her. I would like to ask you to present this matter to the High House, [[Applause]] because for many people, many of the Members present, it may not be entirely clear. We really are voting on a thing without precedent, because if you do it now, it may turn out that any opposition in Poland will never make such a proposal again, because the majority of governments, relying on this precedent, simply this right He's never gonna give it to her. I would like the marshal to present this matter to the High House in accordance with your words and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, because we are not voting here only on simple current information, but we are deciding on a matter of almost systemic. [[Rules.]] Mr. Marshal! When you present it, I would like you not to forget to inform Members - especially Members, for whom this is the first term, which is a lot - about how this principle has worked since 1989. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u9	I was going to. [[Thank you very much.]] [[That's ridiculous!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been two requests for current information. The first request in the order presented on the Sejm Chancellery's website, submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the Minister of Health, is on the extent to which EU funds allocated to the Ministry of Health for the years 2014 to 2020 are used. [[But it's our turn.]] The applicant's representative is Tomasz Latos. The second proposal, submitted by the Civic Platform club, is on the consequences for financing from the EU budget resulting from the violation of the rule of law in Poland, as well as the planned government action to prevent the reduction of EU funds for Poland in the European Union's draft budget for 2021 and 2027. This request for information is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The representative of the applicants shall be Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. As I told you earlier, there was no unanimity within the Senior Convention, so the Sejm must settle this in the vote in accordance with the rules set out in the paragraphs of the Article. 194 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no single application submitted in accordance with the rules, i.e. the day before the first day of the sitting of the Sejm by noon. 21, The Sejm decides which information will be considered. We'll proceed to the... Oh, and there was a question. Ladies and gentlemen, in previous terms - I can speak here from my own experience - at this age, which is since 2001, in every term of office it has often been so that... [[Like what?]] ... The Sejm made a decision because there was more than one current information. It's been that way a lot of times. [[That's not true!]] [[Right.]] Please return... [[Lie!]] Please turn around... Especially in the previous two terms. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I don't know how often, but that's what happened. [[That's a lie!]] We are voting on the current information on the use of EU funds allocated to the Ministry of Health for the years 2014 and 2020. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of selecting current information, please raise your hand and press the button. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 220 votes against - 176 abstentions 9. The Sejm accepted the offer... [[You're gonna have to confess to this.]] Sorry, we voted on the first proposal. We are now voting on the second proposal. [[Why?]] We are voting on the current information on the implications for EU funding resulting from the violation of the rule of law in Poland, as well as on the planned government action to prevent the reduction of EU funds for Poland in the European Union's draft budget for 2021 and 2027. Who among you is in favour of choosing this current information will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 162 voted against - 220, with 24 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has chosen the first information, i.e. information on the level of use of EU funds allocated to the Ministry of Health for the years 2014 to 2020. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Schetyna. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! We're out of vote. I wanted to make a formal request for a recess and a convocation of the Seniors Convention to tell you... But since he's gone, I want you to know, what you did today is a violation of parliamentary democracy. [[Applause]] He's a scandal and a disgrace. I would also like to tell you that you have broken the sacred law of opposition, which was sacred from 1989 until today, until 14 June 2018. You will not shout the rule of law, parliamentary democracy, ordinary decency and honesty. [[Applause]] You have broken the sacred principles of minority law, opposition law. I would like to tell you that the right to information is, as Mr Nitras said, a principle that all marshals have had since 1989... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Everyone, exactly.]] ...have sustained, regardless of the differences, and actually that's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u11	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u12	...so the opposition could have that information... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u13	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u14	What I'm saying is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u15	I'm saying... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, I am very sorry. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] So please... [[This is outrageous, what you're doing. Democratic package.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u16	Do you want me to tell you that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u17	It's not a formal conclusion, it's a first.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u18	Do you want me to tell you that we don't have a club...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u19	Mr President, please leave the speaker. Please leave the podium because this is not a formal conclusion. I'm calling you into order because I'm saying that right now... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Absolute scandal.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] As I said earlier, please make formal applications in writing in particular, as is apparent from the Rules of Procedure. [[Voice from the room: Where is your democratic package?]] Agenda items for the current sitting... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I request a recess on behalf of the club. This is a parliamentary custom and don't break it.]] Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, I would like to point out that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at the moment. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Sit down!]] [[It's disgusting what you're doing.]] The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u20	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Forensics, hour. 10.15... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u21	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't split up because we haven't finished the votes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u22	...for Special Services - hour 10.30, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11.30, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 4:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Foreign Affairs - hour 17, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 18, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 20. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 3:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u23	Thank you. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No. 2628). High Seym! The point is that you know this because it is stated in the information that at the moment there is a proposal to amend, in the form of a resolution, the scope of the Extraordinary Commission's action. This is, in fact, a technical issue, but we have to do it procedurally. I will then propose, in accordance with the approval of the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors Convention, that we proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution and to the adoption of a resolution. Therefore, if there is opposition, we will have to vote. There was no opposition at the meeting of the Senior Convention and the Sejm Bureau. I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to provide the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the applicants a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 2628. The amendments proposed in the draft resolution are mainly based on the extension of the scope of actions set up on 24 November 2017 by the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws. The proposed amendments make it possible to proceed with the Commission's draft law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws from print No 2610. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, I ask that we support the extension of the scope of the activities of the committee mentioned by me so that we can proceed efficiently on the committee's draft electoral law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u25	Thank you, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on this? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on this? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 2628 in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. There were 395 votes against - 1 and 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the electoral code law and some other laws (Print No. 2610). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present the justification for the bill. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications, I present to the Commission a draft law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws. The draft law aims to implement the requests made by the State Election Commission, among others. with regard to the shortening of the judicial and administrative procedure on complaints against the resolutions of the State Election Commission concerning the division of the electoral district... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u27	Excuse me, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please move your calls to the cockroaches because you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u28	...to proceed before administrative courts and to deal with complaints against these resolutions only by the Supreme Administrative Court, to amend the provisions of the electoral code on transmission and recording of the work of regional electoral committees, and to appoint electoral officials. This amendment assumes that cases relating to the handling of complaints against the provisions of the State Election Commission concerning the division of electoral districts will only be dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court in the composition of three judges. The Act amending certain laws aimed at increasing the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities, the procedure for division into electoral districts assumed that the provisions of the State Election Commission had the right to bring an action before the administrative court, in turn the decision of the latter, before the Supreme Administrative Court. This amendment aims to address possible problems in the timely conclusion of court proceedings in the above cases. The amendment to the provisions of the electoral code on the repeal of the rules on the transmission and recording of the work of peripheral electoral committees results from the introduction into the Polish legal order of the provisions of Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). The project extends the circle of people who can serve as an electoral officer. In line with the proposed amendment to the Article. 191c The electoral code for electoral officials will be able to be appointed outside the staff of offices serving government, local government or their subordinates or supervised by them, as well as other persons who have at least 5 years of employment in these offices or their units. It is also proposed that the Head of the National Election Office in the event of a threat to the performance of the tasks referred to in Article. 191e § 1 The electoral code may have entrusted, no longer than for the time of the elections concerned, the performance of the post of electoral officer to a person who does not comply with the residence and employment requirements referred to in Article. 191b § 1 second sentence or § 2 of this election code article. It is here, High Izbo, the place of residence and the place of work in a different municipality than the one in which the candidate for election officials resides. The draft introduces a provision that clearly indicates that providing service and working conditions for the proper performance of tasks by electoral officials is a task entrusted to the municipality, i.e. municipalities will receive the funds from the state budget. The amendment imposes new tasks on the State Election Commission to maintain the list of persons for whom the court has finally ruled that the passive electoral right has been lost in connection with the lodging of an incorrect illustrative statement and to make available data on those persons to the relevant electoral committees registering candidates in elections, i.e. the so-called. Lies of illustration. The President of the Court will be obliged to forward immediately the State Election Commission's final ruling to the court stating that a mirrored person has made an incorrect illustrative statement. The implementation of these tasks will contribute to the proper and efficient conduct of the procedure for registering candidates in elections. A provision is also proposed to ensure that there are no general elections, to the authorities of the municipalities' auxiliary bodies and to the lower-ranking bodies, and to referenda to the local authorities. An exception to the above rule will be the elections to the district councils of the M.S. Warsaw. As we know, there is a separate electoral procedure in the area of M.S. Warsaw. In addition, it will be possible to conduct these elections, including supplementary elections to the Senate, elections to the authorities of local self-government units: early, complementary, renewed and to the new council or early elections. As far as the effects of the proposed law are concerned, the project will certainly have positive socio-economic effects. The project has no financial implications for the budgets of local government units. At the same time, it will bring benefits to the state budget in connection with, among others. a derogation from the need to bear costs for the equipment of the electoral premises with equipment for recording images and sound and to shorten the judicial and administrative procedure in cases of complaints against the resolution of the State Election Commission on the division of the electoral district. I will remind you that here the time limit for the person concerned is three days, and the court also has five days to investigate the case after such an action has been brought before the Supreme Administrative Court. [[Voice from the room: Where is the legislation?]] It is proposed that the law should enter into force 7 days after the date of publication, with the exception of amendments to the Article. 420 The electoral code, which is intended for applicants to enter into force on 1 January 2019. The designation of a shorter than 14 days vacathio legis results from the need to ensure that the provisions on the summary procedure for dealing with complaints on the resolutions of the State Election Commission on the division into electoral districts are implemented as soon as possible. This involves ensuring a smooth settlement of pending proceedings by the Supreme Administrative Court. Since the proposed amendments do not conflict with the principle of a democratic rule of law and the need for such amendments is extremely urgent, it is proposed that the law should enter into force 7 days after the date of publication. These provisions are not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u29	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the Act amending the electoral code law and some other laws. We are back to the next amendment of the electoral code law. The previous amendment was made in a reprehensible, embarrassing and outrageous manner. Such an important piece of legislation, such as the electoral code, was prepared on his knees and a couple of weeks of procededation. Changes in the electoral code are introduced for months, are consulted, carefully prepared, but you have failed to respect it and have prepared a compromising project. I would like to remind you that, by the time the project went to the special committee meeting, 130 self-corrections had already been made to the 16-article project. Then, after the project came out of the committee, more than 120 autofixes were made. An unsavory record of Guinness in the process of such an important bill, such an important act of law. The proposed changes have politicalised the process of preparing and carrying out elections, among others. opening the way for election commissioners of political party nominates or subjugating the National Election Office to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The PiS also introduced changes that pose a threat to the efficiency of the electoral process. That is why today we are returning in emergency mode, urgently to the next amendment of this law. We warned at all stages of the legislative work and after the bill was passed that it would cause enormous perturbation in preparing and conducting the elections themselves, that the autumn elections would be threatened. Our voices were of course ignored, all the opposition amendments, both the Civic Platform and other opposition clubs, were rejected and today we are at a time when the State Election Commission and the National Election Office have asked for an urgent revision of this code, indicating that the elections will not take place in the autumn with such a legal order. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is ready to discuss this project, little of it, is ready to support some of the proposed changes, because they are partly also a reflection of our amendments that we tabled in December and January this year, but under certain conditions. It is proposed to waive the need to record and transmit the electoral process. But what's the argument? GDPR regulation. The GDPR Act has been in operation in Poland since April 2016. This is nothing new, and today, of course, on the pretext of amending this law, you are withdrawing from recording and broadcasting. You're just not ready for this trial. [[Applause]] Secondly, liberalisation of the rules for the election of electoral officials. You cannot set them up, which is why today you are liberalizing this process, extending the possibility to apply for people who are not officials in the local government or government administration. We want to discuss this. If you accept our amendments on this issue, we too are ready to vote in favour of this law. Introducing the possibility for the head of the CWB to enter into agreements with local governments. We talked about it, you ignored it. You're back on the case today. Shortening the appeal process to one instance: the Supreme Administrative Court. We will propose, ladies and gentlemen, a few amendments, including. Return to one electoral commission, return to the previous definition of the sign "x" and extend correspondence voting. We will also return, as I said, to the issue of the election process. If you really start discussing these amendments at the special committee meeting and want to improve the process of preparing and running the elections, we will be ready. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support this draft law. If we don't, we won't take responsibility for your screwup. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u31	Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You'd like to say, "I told you so." I am not saying this with great triumphism, because it is not a cause for joy, it is a cause for sadness, because, ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting and today's debate could be avoided in a very simple way. All you had to do was listen to the practitioners, just keep a very decent rule that we weren't working on the electoral code for five to twelve, but we were doing it much earlier. The perfect case would be if we worked four years before the election on the electoral code, the changes in the electoral code. This is a culture, a level. Plus, we haven't grown up in Poland yet. If we had this level preserved, a certain standard, this discussion would not be today, there would be no tearing clothes and saying that over the wrong bill... Because today's version of the bill is very bad. There is no other way to say about this law if there are more than 200 amendments in the third reading. That would be the world championship. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know of any bill that would have so many amendments. If there have been so many amendments, let's not be surprised that it is simply impossible to introduce. This is an unrealistic bill, and today's bad bill we are saving with a pastry sticking to a safety pin to get out, ladies and gentlemen, face-to-face. While applicants, as far as the original project is concerned, had a lot of good points and a lot of important things that needed to be introduced... We at the Kukiz club15 said: we're all for it. We were just talking from the beginning about one more important issue: for today it is unrealistic. The calendar for the implementation of many issues was simply unrealistic. The fact that the number of officials changed three times showed that we were right, the issue of the famous cameras - unfortunately again. One at a time. So, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the whole important process you have burned down by your sloppyness, carelessness and lack of thought, even worse, I would say: the lack of listening to the voice of your older, wise colleagues from the rear benches, practitioners. This, ladies and gentlemen, my attention to my colleagues in Law and Justice: if you would listen to your older colleagues - who talked to me in clouds and they share my view - maybe we could discuss it differently today, or we wouldn't discuss it at all. You have to listen, listen to the state if you don't have opposition, it's your older colleagues, practitioners, self-government. There was no discussion with the secretaries who had the most practical knowledge of the elections. Margin, pathology you've made the norm. I know there are no perfect people and there are no perfect officials, but let's not say 100%. Officials, secretaries involved in the electoral system and the preparation of elections are thieves and the mafia that there is corruption. Well, it just isn't. Let's not generalize. That, too, is a remark to my colleagues in Law and Justice. Kukiz15 wants to work actively and creatively, but at the same time I would like us to create a real law. Ladies and gentlemen, honestly, what's the way out today? Fast, unfortunately, repealing the current version, restoring the old version for a year, while at the same time starting the process of writing a new electoral code welcoming the camera, committees. Do it professionally, once, but properly. If we want to do this, let's do it so that we don't have to correct it again in six months and say that the elections were held and not settled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u33	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa from the Modern Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to discuss the proposed bill, I must refer at least for a moment to the genesis of the whole problem. In November Ub. Members of the Law and Justice have submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm a draft law amending certain laws in order to increase the process of controlling certain public authorities, a draft by several Members. Ladies and gentlemen! As the President of the State Election Commission said, this law was written by a small Kazia, or actually a few small Kazias, who shared one common feature - they had no idea what legal rules should apply when conducting the electoral process. [[We still don't know.]] I would like to remind you of some of the fundamental shortcomings of Parliament's law: the elimination of one-mandate districts in municipalities over 20,000, the elimination of correspondence voting, after the event - excluding disabled persons, the change of the definition of X, the introduction of separate committees to conduct elections and the determination of voting results, the politicalisation of the State Election Commission and the National Election Office by giving the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration the right to recommend the heads of the CWB and Commissioners, the creation of a corps of electoral officials subordinate to the electoral administration. By referring to the need for full transparency, you have introduced an obligation to broadcast the recording of elections. As a consequence, however, the budget was not secured to finance all the costs associated with local elections. But the goal was one: submission and arrangement of the electoral law to serve the PiS. It has only been a few months since the bad bill was passed, and today we can safely say that we have talked about it, because all the elements that are being presented today have been strongly criticised by Members during the work of the Extraordinary Commission and also during these two readings. What you have done has been able to pass on to the State Election Commission a list of over 100 candidates for head of the National Election Office and political commissioners. It's the only way you've been prepared. [[Applause]] You didn't have anything else ready when it comes to preparing the electoral law. So you handed over the names of your party nominates and you were convinced that that would be enough. That's what you guys put up with. A few months after the Act's operation today you can see: you cannot recruit electoral officials, there are still more than 200 people missing to ensure the functioning or conduct of these elections, you have not purchased equipment to transmit and record the election process and the work of the regional electoral committees. Today, you are recalling the communication or order of the State Election Commission, referring to the GDPR. As Mr Protas said: GDPR - a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council was adopted on 16 April 2016, two years ago. When you gave this presentation, nothing changed in this regard. This has nothing to do with this. But even if we assume that there are obstacles to transmission, there is absolutely no reason not to record the committee's work so as not to secure evidence of any complaints regarding the validity of elections or the counterfeiting of elections. I have one fundamental question for you: Why are you making this change? Is it true that you want to deprive the courts of evidence that can document potential cons in the election? Is that true? Another issue that is extremely important - without any justification, the applicant cites the element that local referendums cannot be held with local elections and that elections to district councils cannot be combined with local elections. What are the reasons for this? Today we know that you want to hold a constitutional referendum on the day of the local elections, which will force people to answer idiotic questions, but you do not want to have a discussion during the local elections about matters that concern local communities. Why do you want to deprive you of the possibility of making a joint choice with the district council and the commune council? It's like separating the elections to the Seym and the Senate and doing them the opposite way. What effect will that have? In Cracow this was experimented and as the elections are together, turnout is 34%, as separate - 12. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club, I submit a motion to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u35	Thank you. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Again, another bill that will pass through the legislative process like a storm and will lead us to expect another revision of the amendment. Your revenge is here, yes, sir, your arrogance and your shoe, because if you would listen [[Applause]] the good and wise amendments that we have tabled as Members of the opposition, if you were listening to representatives of local corporations, today we would not have to lean back on a project that is the result of legislative errors. [[Applause]] At the previous Extraordinary Commission meeting, you reached the peaks of sloppyness by introducing 260 amendments to the draft law. Should this be the legislative process? This is evidence of only one thing, namely that they were in charge of writing local law, electoral order and code people who had absolutely no idea about it. PiS flagship ideas about recording - after all, it was supposed to be a panacea for alleged electoral forgeries. Now, how will you look your voters, your supporters in the eye? After all, they were waiting for this election to be recorded. Today it turns out - this has already been mentioned here, Mr Protas and Mr Owl have said - that the GDPR rules are only a poor example, because at least you should know about the EU directive of April 2016. How do you want to shut down the number of electoral officials? You have already gone to the point of shortening the criterion - it is enough that people will work 5 years at the municipal office. And that's the only criterion. So you could say a little humorously that it could be an 80-year-old man who hasn't worked at the office in 30 years. More bullshit and paranoia. I will talk about further details on the report, and now please speak to a colleague of Michał Kaminski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u37	Mr Kaminski, Mr PSL, the Union of European Democrats, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Cicero in his famous speech against Katylina said: How much longer, Katylina, will you abuse our patience? I'll say it again: how much longer, PiS, will you abuse our patience? Today's debate would not be necessary if you listened to the opposition if you did not show arrogance. And you can only say that just as Katylina ended up in the battle of Pistoria his conspiracy, his conspiracy against the legal authorities of Rome, so your conspiracy against Polish freedom will end badly too. Because, praise God, your inept dictatorship - and we see it in the example of today's bill - stumbles over its own shoelaces. Praise God, you are incompetent, and that is why your assassination of Polish freedom will not succeed. And let me repeat: there would be no need for you to listen to the opposition if you listened to reason instead of reason to substitute for madness instead of the law to substitute for lawlessness, and justice to injustice rather than to substitute for murder. [[Applause]] All of this would be possible if you treated the Polish Parliament as the Polish Parliament deserves, not as a private farm of a few unfulfilled people who treat their complexes at the expense of the living body of Polish democracy. [[Applause]] And today, none of your manipulations will be for nothing, because the day of your history, the day of your defeat is coming and it will be a day of joy for all Poles. 'Cause all you guys do is fill your pockets and your friends. Yesterday we found out that your new password was full of micha for a greedy monk. 100 million PLN Mr. Gliński now wants to transfer to Torun. You're gonna end up in the wrong place. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u39	Please take the floor of Mr Ireneus Profit, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u40	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Commission proposal for a law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws. The draft law submitted was submitted by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications in order to comply with the requests made by the State Election Commission. The proposed amendments are aimed at correcting, supplementing or derogating the provisions introduced in the electoral code by the Act of 11 January 2018. We made a number of comments and reservations at the time, but they were not accepted by the High House. The current bill is partly trying to correct the shortcomings of the regulation adopted at that time. The practice of the new electoral legislation introduced at the beginning of the year and the issue of ensuring compliance with EU legislation, in particular the famous Regulation No 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016, briefly referred to as GDPR, will undoubtedly affect the need for a smooth procedure and the adoption of this amendment. Its essence comes down to three fundamental issues. Firstly, the novel envisages changes in the procedure for the appointment of electoral officials. The project extends the catalogue of people who can perform this function. In addition to the staff of offices serving government and local authorities or their subordinates or supervised by them, electoral officials may also be other persons with at least 5 years' experience in these offices or their units. In addition, in the event of a threat concerning the performance of tasks related to ensuring the smooth functioning of the regional electoral committees, the Head of the National Election Office will be able to entrust, no longer than for the time of the elections concerned, the performance of the function of an electoral officer to a person who does not meet the requirements of residence and place of work. The introduction of these provisions will undoubtedly allow the head of the CWB to be more flexible in the appointment of electoral officials whose shoulders will be burdened with the proper conduct of the electoral procedure in each municipality. Secondly, the proposal provides for a shortening of the judicial and administrative procedure for complaints against the resolutions of the State Election Commission concerning the division of the electoral district. As proposed by the applicants, these actions will only be dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court of the three Judges, and thus one instance instead of the two existing courts. Due to the very tight electoral calendar, the speed of such proceedings should be a priority. The change should therefore be assessed positively. The third major amendment is the repeal of the Act of 11 January this year. rules on the transmission and recording of the work of the Regional Election Commissions. General Data Protection Officer in his position of April this year. which responds to the request of the State Election Commission clearly indicates that without questioning the right to public information resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, it should be noted that the solutions contained in the electoral code require compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data, in particular the GDPR Regulation. It points out in its conclusions that the extent of the adjustments and the number and severity of risks in practice may prevent lawful data protection of personal data from being transmitted during elections. I'm quoting PKW. In this context, although, as a parliamentary circle, we consider the idea of broadcasting from electoral premises to be correct for the transparency of the electoral process, we consider the committee's proposal to repeal the rules in this regard as reasonable, but it is important to return to this subject and in peace, without the pressure attached to the election deadline, to prepare rules on the transmission of elections which will comply with the provisions of the GDPR Regulation. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted for further legislative work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u41	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, after hearing all these speeches from representatives of opposition clubs, you can say... [[I'm feeling a lot of satisfaction. I've cut it a little short.]] ...you can recall Napoleon's words that the head without memory is like a fortress without a garrison. Ladies and gentlemen! You guys seem to have forgotten what we're talking about. It seems that you have forgotten the practice of your actions, that you completely do not remember what you did when you were in power. [[He doesn't remember what he said.]] This is the first and last, I believe, amendment of the electoral code before the municipal elections. You guys, since 2011, when you introduced the bill, in four years, you've made 21 amendments... [[Man, talk about the bill.]] ... Seven times in the first year, and the first one took place before the project even entered into force. You really shouldn't say anything stupid. [[Get to the point.]] [[Get to the point, because you're running out of time.]] Case number two. You may also have missed it, or at least this impression can be made after listening to these speeches, why this novel is happening. After all, it is because the State Election Commission has sent a request for change to the codification committee. That's the second thing to remember. [[That's what you've been listening to. We'll go through with the questions.]] We'll get to that, too, who's listening. And case three, to put an end to the complete bullshit that goes down. [[Right now, this is bullshit coming from the speaker.]] The Panacea for the honesty of elections wasn't just supposed to be a camera. This is an entirely incorrect and untrue charge. Panaceum was supposed to be first of all so that the committee that operates could count calmly and in one place the votes so that there would be no sub-grouping, increased powers for the husbands of trust... [[These stars, these stars.]] ...to ensure every important political force in such a committee and a number of other changes that apply and will apply. I don't think there's any point in making me characterize the changes that have been submitted at this point. The discussion is still ahead of us at the committee meeting. [[You shouldn't be ashamed of yourself!]] This was done by a representative of the committee by Mr Matusiewicz. I'm gonna take a few more cases. Well, at all, I have the impression that, if it were not for the initiation of hysteria, also unfortunately by the opposition leader, who is threatening Poles with the fact that elections will not be fair, although you know very well how false this charge is, some of these changes would not have to enter into force. [[Yours were false and the courts rejected...]] If you see the problem with this proposal that an electoral officer will be able to become a person with a long-term clerkship, it is really amazing. High Izbo! One more very important thing to say. Contrary to what you have said, and contrary to the issues that have been raised, none of you, nor the State Election Commission, nor the media, nor the state, has paid attention to the particular things that have been submitted at this time. None of you, and so you say, have been so smart, pointed out the date of entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and this was not at all the subject of discussion, so do not tell such fairy tales and take no credit that you absolutely do not have. High Izbo! It's gotta be an intention. All of us, so that the elections are fair and transparent, and I believe that's how the committee works. Of course, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I am in favour of directing this project to further work. And to Mr Kaminski, who summoned Cicero, I will only point out that he sentenced these people without trial. [[It's like you guys. It's like you guys.]] You may want to refer to these patterns when you have the majority. [[The bell, the applause.]] That's definitely not our intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of people asking questions? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't want to, but... Mr Schreiber, this is the PKW, not someone else, trying to save from the embarrassment and shame of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[PiS.]] And our novels were made on the basis of one of the most important documents in Poland, which was created in the modern Republic, i.e. the electoral code. He was based on the experience of the election, and you're correcting it with a small, partial novel of the electoral code. But not you, we were trying to make it better. In fact, you have made these amendments to our proposals and now at the request of the PCA. And you're gonna make these novels because it doesn't solve the wall of crying and shame when it comes to making choices, because that's what it's gonna be like -- there's gonna be problems with registering letters and counting votes, and then there's gonna be problems. I hope that the PKW will make such proposals by saving the Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u45	Now the question is asked by Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u46	The fact that you have absolutely no idea how to write the law in order for it to be consistent and consistent is evidenced by the fact that on 11 January 2018 an amendment was introduced in the Local Government Act. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c, which is now allowing the election committees to carry out broadcasts from the deliberations. How does that apply to your proposed regulations? This is the first case. The second, particularly worrying, concerns appeals against the provisions of the PCA. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution, judicial proceedings shall be at least two-way proceedings. This is why the Voivodeship Administrative Court was established in 2004. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u47	The question is now asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There were three of them, each of them with different blood: Mr Schreiber, Mr Horal, Mr Sęk a.k.a. Sękowski... I think so. [[Even the names...]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the question he asked. In fact, Prof. Wojciech Hermeliński, speaking of the fact that these provisions of the electoral code were prepared by people who have no idea at all what elections are like in practice, what work in the State Election Commission looks like in practice. Those recipes were made by little Kazio. Which one of these gentlemen? This is little Kazio? I hope Mr. Schreiber will answer that question. I'm gonna cut to the chase right now. I would like to draw attention to the article. 103. This article concerns social observers and, unfortunately, this amendment of the electoral code does not give the same rights to social observers as to men of confidence. We believe that this should also be highlighted in the legislative work. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u49	In the procedure of correcting Mr Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u50	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a heartfelt request for Members of the opposition: since you already want and have such a need for anyone to show something and to bite in some stupid way, it is worth at least learning the name yourself, which the Member has failed. You spoke, as I understand it, of Minister Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, not Sęk-Sękowski. Secondly, the same applies to Mr Owl, who had previously wanted to do the same thing, but did not even remember the name, when preparing his speech, could not quote the name of the law we adopted in January this year. It is a law on increasing the participation of citizens in the process of selecting, operating and controlling certain public authorities. So, I'm asking you to supplement your basic knowledge. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u51	Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u52	High Izbo! Question to the applicants: What suddenly enlightened you that you noticed the problems that were presented by experts and by the opposition? The quality, the breaking of the law, the lack of class, the rules, the respect - that's what's got you from the beginning. Today it was very clear at the beginning of this meeting. And you're still enjoying your shoes and your power. But the bill shows where you're going. Mr Schreiber has just said about another Member that he is presenting something in a silly way. Ladies and gentlemen, I never lower myself to this level, but today I will make an exception. Members of the PiS instead of making a substantive comment... In a silly way, you refer to the statements of other Members. I'm not gonna ask you if you're embarrassed. I'm not gonna ask you if you're ashamed because the people of the dictatorship aren't ashamed. They're gonna say that black isn't always black at any time, although you can tell it's black. And that's exactly what you're doing, and an example of this bill... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u53	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in the Seym for the first time, this is my first term of office, and I cannot be surprised what legal crap is cultivated here compared to the city council and the local authorities where I was before. There the law was really well passed, and here every single bill, you're pulling a bigger legal bill. Ladies and gentlemen! Only from this month: amendments to the law on wind power stations - you are returning to our definition of buildings, about KZL - people by you could not buy apartments, now the electoral code. Why are you surprised that people don't want to volunteer for election officials if you're doing this shit? How can law be established in this way? This is incomprehensible to me. I wanted to ask you if you could finally change... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u55	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to dedicate to Members who are asking for an amendment of this law, the following quote: "Acting without thinking is like shooting without aiming." We treated... We said these were the wrong solutions. You knew this very well by submitting this, and they were obliged to comply with the GDPR directive, and you gave up confusion before the elections. No cameras - 600 million PLN, two committees - one in the morning, the other in the afternoon to count votes. It's really a bummer and a shame that in the Polish parliament a few months before the election we have to fix it. It's worth ruling on the premise or the approach to make sense and look back at the end... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u57	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I have a very specific question for you. As we know, the most important thing in the election process is counting. As the classic says, it doesn't matter who votes, it doesn't matter who counts. We have men of trust who have a lot of authority. And now the question is whether a trust husband using today's technical capabilities, i.e. iPads, phones, has the right, will have the right to broadcast live from the counting process. I ask, because it is technically feasible, it is real. And now: in the light of these changes will it be possible, will it not be a violation of the law and at the same time what is your approach to it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u59	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you what it takes to have in mind in order to allow the possibility to broadcast elections from closed polling stations, i.e. Penalty establishments, hospitals, social services homes, and do not react to such a remark that this cannot be done. Fortunately, the GDPR came like a roller and evened out, which does not mean that it is not a legitimate question why the electoral process will not be perpetuated, even if it is to prove the case when considering possible electoral protests. For what reason? Answer that question. Why? Of course, I join Mr Maciejewski's voice, because this increase in the participation of citizens in the electoral process must include issues of the ability to consolidate the work of regional electoral committees when they count votes. There must be a possibility... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u61	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As you can see, we are dealing with a total discreditation of the applicants of the previous electoral code law. [[...to publish the transmission.]] Just at the request of the National Election Commission... The State Election Commission has asked the Extraordinary Commission to make these amendments, which can de facto lead to local elections, but the question is whether these amendments to the electoral code, which were made six months before the elections, significantly do not affect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, [[Applause]] Such changes should be considered to be significant in determining the electoral districts in the local elections. These are not trivial matters, and this above all concerns changes which are proposed by the codification committee in response to the desperate call of the National Election Office and... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u63	Thank you. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be purchased close to 30,000. cameras, besides thousands of computers, printers, you'd have to pay for the transmission. In total, the estimated cost... [[State Election Commission.]] ...all of this is 600 million zlotys. To this would be the archiving of filmed paintings. However, in April it was already known that the GDPR was functioning. This is just nonsense, what you're doing. I don't think you see what you're doing. You didn't listen to the opposition. During the procession, the opposition paid particular attention to this, and not only this. You do not listen to experienced secretaries who have knowledge, professionally conducted many elections. No one matters to you. It is a good thing that the National Election Commission has also pointed this out, because if the National Election Commission had not brought it up... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u65	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform. [[I'm not done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Regardless of the intentions of the applicants, but also of the State Election Commission, this amendment will undermine citizens' confidence in the State, the High House... [[Voice from the hall: The culture of your marshal is well known.]] ...and to the applicants. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out in at least two judgments that amendments to electoral law must not be made six months before the first election process. That deadline's over. We're five months ahead of election day right now. We must therefore point out that these solutions may be contrary to the Constitution, they may be called into question. There is also doubt, and this doubt is reported by practitioners, why it will not be possible to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...take the election at the same time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u67	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing is that you want to ban, for these small countries, on the day on which local elections are held. What is it that directs you? Do you want to speak to the citizens? That's what you're talking about, so only party nominators can discuss party issues, and those things that are important to local governments are ignored? Yeah, I guess so. Such a psychic idea is hard to find in history. And second question. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you trying to hide? Because I understand that there may not be an online transmission, but why won't these elections be recorded? Why won't the recordings be stored? What are you trying to hide? After all, here, from this speaker, you've been saying that for transparency, the correctness of the election, recording is crucial, so why are you shutting down the recording? What are you trying to hide in this election? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u69	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It could be said that European Union law denies national rules, as the President, the head of the CWB, has already said. Only that what followed the introduction of GDPR was known not in April 2016, but already in October 1995. It is grotesque that you notice these provisions of the Constitution in PKW and CWB, but as usual selectively, and only when you need it. The GDPR has basically saved you from these crazy changes in the electoral code, but only from one mistake, and unfortunately there are dozens of them. It is a pity that the GDPR cannot help you with these unfortunate electoral officials or that something like GDPR will not help you in this situation. What ideas do you have for solving this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u71	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Mark Owl, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant. I am aware that in several aspects of this bill has been prepared by the National Election Office, and therefore I have this question to the President: Have you, when examining and submitting a draft of amendments to the High House, come to your attention why the National Election Office, the State Election Commission, did not fulfil its statutory obligation? I mean here, for example, the purchase of recording equipment. This has absolutely nothing to do with GDPR. Here's the other thing. You're only making changes in transmission, but you're not moving the components associated with the recording of trust by your husbands. If the GDPR is valid, then there are also men of trust. They're gonna be these videos, they're gonna publish videos, they're gonna be the evidence on the case, too. And then there's the second line. Why are you banning a joint election, knowing that this will have dramatic consequences for attendance?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u73	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This term of office, 2.5 years of PiS rule, is characterized by many negative phenomena, but I think these two are distinctive. In fact, there is no month for any environment to protest against the bad decisions that PiS is making. This is one phenomenon. And the second - actually there is no serious law that would not be updated immediately after the Senate's adoption, or actually later again by the Sejm. Within a few months, these laws are even amended several times. I would actually say this: Do you not realize what it looks like, what your governments are like? Do you not realize that it is actually possible to say that today Polish is ruled by the collective little Kazio? This example is significant. Just because a group doesn't mean that there will be no written actions and conversations between individual representatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u75	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes, which has brought forward this proposal, I would like to stress, firstly, that this project was prepared by the Commission, but inspirationally, as a result of the presentation of the State Election Commission, namely its chairman, on 4 June this year. What is the subject of this project has absolutely not been the subject of a legislative procedure before. I was just a member of this Extraordinary Committee of 17 Members and there was no problem with the GDPR, no one raised it. I would like to stress that this EU directive of 27 April 2016 was to be implemented, implemented in the Polish legal order on 25 May. That's what happened. In a letter dated 18 April, the General Data Protection Officer addressed the State Election Commission, pointing out that these provisions could be incompatible with the GDPR. The result was the speech by the President of the State Election Commission. There were many demagogies and legal heresy in these speeches. I will not comment on this, nor will I comment on the statements. I want to talk about things that are obviously untrue. One of the representatives of the clubs said that the electoral commissioners were party nominators, PiS-owscy. Well, out of these 100 Commissioners, the vast majority, or sixty or so, are judges who previously served as Commissioners, and the others are professional lawyers, lawyers and lawyers chosen from among other candidates by the State Election Commission. Regarding the fact that there were 260 amendments previously. Yeah, there were 260 amendments, but ok. 180, or more, were amendments related to the fact that legislation on monomandate districts in municipalities up to 20,000 had been introduced into this project. inhabitants and this resulted in changes in individual chapters, which is why there have been so many amendments. We also listened to the opposition's demands. After all, some of them, let's not forget that, have been introduced, among others. Unimandate districts in municipalities up to 20,000. Although the Kukiz Group's representatives have called for all municipalities, districts and even voivodships to be elected, but we have considered it to be too large, at least for now, to extend the provisions of the electoral code and to leave it as it was before, in the municipalities to 20 thousand. As far as the correspondence vote is concerned, I would like to remind you that the Senate's amendments, but the vote correspondence has been introduced. The claim that we've been dealing with a shortening of the appeal procedure to the administrative courts is also... I ask you, if the provisions of the law on proceedings before administrative courts were applied directly, since these courts are two-instant, and I would remind you that the two-instance are only since 2001, there are far-reaching time limits for remedies, there are 30 days for appeal, for appeal, for appeal, because that is the name of the appeal, i.e. appeal against the decision of the provincial administrative court to the Supreme Administrative Court. The provision that the court of first instance, the provincial administrative court, has 30 days to write a statement of reasons for the decision, also leads to an extension of this procedure. In recent months there have been resolutions of the municipalities' councils on the establishment of electoral districts. Of course, there are complaints about these resolutions. Therefore, the National Election Commission is considering them, it is as if the First instance. A complaint to the Supreme Administrative Court has been served since the resolution of the State Election Commission. The voivodship administrative court is ignored, but we still believe that the dual-instance mode is preserved. So that the allegations made by Mr Zgorzelecki here... [[Gorzelski!]] Zgorzelski, I'm sorry. I believe that this is a violation of the article. 178 § Two constitutions are unobtrusive here. As far as husbands of trust are concerned, those laws that say that they can record certain activities are not repealed in this regard. Only the rules on transmission are repealed, while the trust will be able to perform and consolidate their activities by means of appropriate devices, it is about image and sound, especially when determining the results of the vote. The question was whether the men of trust under the government of the present law have such powers that they can also participate in the transfer of protocols from the determination of voting results in the circuit, e.g. to the municipality. They may participate in this, as well as in subsequent activities, where the cumulative results of voting in the municipality are already concerned. Is there a violation of the Constitution's provisions concerning the six-month period? I don't think so, because these aren't important changes. These changes, which we are making here, i.e. with regard to the electoral procedure, shortening this deadline - I will remind you that it is 3 days for a complaint and then the obligation for the Supreme Administrative Court to consider the case in the composition of three judges, this court may also do so in a sitting in secret - do not represent any significant change, because the action was also before, only the procedure was of course longer and now will be shortened. In this situation, I believe, High Izbo, that this change is necessary and will certainly improve this procedure. As far as electoral officials are concerned, we are mitigating these rules, it is about subjective considerations, about who can be an electoral officer. The rule is that this official should be appointed for 6 years, but in cases where there are no electoral officials, because there are such municipalities... And here, too, I want to make it clear that this is depending on who is in charge in a given municipality, because if there is a mayor and a mayor from Law and Justice, it is somehow that these officials are and that each municipality has two. I say this on the example of south-eastern voivodships, there it is. In contrast, most officials are missing in northern and western voivodships. It is therefore a relief that it refers not only to six years, but to the fact that the Head of the National Election Office will be able to appoint officials with regard to the elections concerned and only for that period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u77	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal at noon. 13.30. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 39 hours 11 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws, print No 2618. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 3 and 4 of the agenda: 3. Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science (Prints No 2446 and 2563). 4. Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft Law Law Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science (Prints No 2447 and 2564). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to present the Commission's reports in prints 2563 and 2564.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth contained in the Parliamentary Printing No. 2563 on the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science, print No. 2446. The Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 9 May 2018 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 24, 29 and 30 May 2018, brings: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit 90 minority applications at the request of the applicants. The Act merges the legislation on higher education and science, scattered today in numerous other laws. It regulates the way universities operate, their structure, their authority, the way students conduct their studies, the rights and obligations of students, the functioning of student authorities and student organisations, as well as issues relating to university employees, scientific activities, the way they conduct postgraduate studies and specialized training. The Act introduces federations of universities. Thanks to the synergy effect and the evaluation criterion, universities forming federations can gain a higher position in rankings. The Act regulates the award of degrees and titles in higher education and science, the training of PhD students and the evaluation of doctoral schools, as well as the evaluation of the quality of scientific activities. It also defines the disciplinary responsibility of academic teachers, students and PhD students. It regulates the situation of foreigners at Polish universities. It regulates the functioning of representative institutions of higher education institutions such as the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Conference of Public Rectors of Professional Universities, the Conference of Vocational Rectors of Polish Schools and others. It deals with IT systems operating at universities, including the protection of personal data processed by these systems. It sets out how to award scholarships and prizes. It regulates the financing of universities and universities and the conduct of the university's financial management. The bill aroused turbulent discussions in the academic community, which were also reflected in the speeches of our committee. Many opinions, often contradictory, have been reported. This was due to various visions of the functioning of universities. Hence the high number of minority proposals. In particular, the differences in the evaluation were presented on the establishment of a university board, its composition and competences, changes in the competence of rectors and senates, the possibility of changing the structure of the university consisting in the liquidation of departments. There were also concerns as to whether financial resources would be provided for effective implementation of higher education reform in order to improve the quality of education and scientific work in real terms. This is also the issue of minority proposals. Attention was paid to the need to guarantee adequate remuneration in institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The introduction of doctoral scholarships as a universal solution was particularly welcomed. The problems of humanities were recognised when assessing the categories of universities. Some of the objections raised concerned a draft subject to public discussion before the printing was sent to the Sejm - some of them were corrected before the draft law was passed to the Sejm. During the examination of the draft, the committee adopted around 100 amendments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present also the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, print No. 2564, on the governmental draft law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No. 2447. The Sejm at its 62nd meeting on 9 May 2018, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 24 and 30 May 2018, brings: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit two minority applications. High Seym! This bill didn't wake up. so many doubts. Several clarification amendments were adopted. The bill contains a set of legal changes necessary in other laws due to the introduction of new solutions by the Law on Higher Education, print No. 2563. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u79	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u80	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2446, and the Government's draft Law Rules introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, print No 2447. The proposals aim at consolidating, standardising and simplifying basic legislation in the field of higher education and science. The provisions laid down in the various laws so far will be contained in a single legal act. The draft Law Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science is a consequence of new regulations dictated by effective and efficient implementation. The reform of science and higher education is an answer to the need to improve the quality of education and improve the quality of research in Poland. It was developed with the participation of the academic community, through extensive consultations and arrangements. The reform changes the approach to science - instead of focusing on the number of studies carried out and the number of publications awarded will be their quality. Higher levels of research work will result in a dynamic development of science and innovation of the economy. Projects include: improving the quality of education in studies, increasing the salaries of academic teachers, abolishing the obligation to habilitation while proposing a package for obtaining this degree of scientific autonomy, as well as new solutions for promoting doctors and reviewing doctoral discourses. The submission introduces a system of broad support for regional universities. It should be noted that the solutions adopted were supported by the stakeholders themselves - regional universities from all over Poland. The projects also offer tools to raise the position of Polish universities in international rankings. Federations of universities, programmes of research universities or support for regional initiatives are only a few of the solutions proposed in the law. A new model of doctoral training is introduced - doctoral schools, which will be carried out on a stationary basis. Each PhD student will be provided with a doctoral scholarship and parental leave, and the PhD students will receive an increased scholarship. The proposed projects include changes in the area of: university system, evaluation of science and competence to award degrees, solutions for students and employees of universities, as well as new solutions for regional universities, with an algorithm that takes into account the needs of the regions and the programme of the Regional Initiative of Excellence - and so more than PLN 100 million per year will go to regional centres conducting high-level research in particular disciplines, and each region will receive a guaranteed financial envelope. The Act also provides for the settlement of the academic environment with the period of the Polish People's Republic. Decommunization of Polish universities is a long-awaited issue. After the end of World War II, universities were not neutral, strictly reserved for the science of the field of activity, and became an important element of the communism and vassalization of the Polish state. Higher education requires a moral rebirth in this area. According to the provisions of the project, persons who worked in or cooperated with the security bodies of the Polish People's Republic will not be allowed to sit in the institutions of universities and representative institutions. Science and higher education obligations and their impact on Poland's economic and social development have a detailed description in the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020. The strategy for the development of Polish science and higher education is a key element of the plan of responsible economic development of Poland presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. High Seym! There were different voices and opinions of higher education and science environments with regard to the proposals submitted. We listened very carefully, which resulted in a large number of amendments proposed and adopted in the course of the work. It's a proof of going out to meet the demands of university representatives, academics, students and PhD students. As the broad dialogue continues, I submit to the High House a package of additional amendments. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates the adoption of proposed laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u81	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft Law on Higher Education and Science. The draft Law on Higher Education and Science, which entered the Sejm on 5 April, is the subject of a wide and heated discussion both in the academic, scientific and non-scientific environment. Last week, a number of academic centers took up protests against this project in various forms. Work has recently taken place in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the project. On the one hand, the Prime Minister has always stressed his openness to comments and discussions, on the other hand he strongly argued for the solutions contained in the project, although I think he has recently given up this persuasion, because the draft Law on Higher Education was 105 amendments and 52 lines of justification, i.e. one amendment was slightly less than half a line. So I don't think it's good to be convinced. But I'm gonna refer to it in substance. Art. 70 constitutions provide higher education institutions with autonomy under the rules laid down in the Act. Today, the current law states that the university is autonomous in all areas of its activity. There is nothing more about all areas of action in the project, and unfortunately we find rules that undermine the principle of university autonomy. These include: standards for the university board, which is to consist of more than 50% of members coming from outside the university community. The University Council has very broad competences, among others. Its tasks are to adopt the strategy of the university and to identify candidates for the rector. So the university's strategy, pointing out candidates for the rector is the competence of an authority where most people are supposed to have outsiders. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...you have to say that autonomy is the right of the collective to settle their own affairs first and foremost internally. The most important of these matters is the choice of their own authorities. The most important of these issues is the strategy of action. Academic students and teachers today stress that the introduction of university councils consisting mostly of people outside the academy can make universities dependent on local political and business arrangements. Next line. There is no doubt that well-functioning legislation on higher education and science should be accompanied by a significant increase in spending on higher education and science. Without it, even the best solutions will not produce the expected results. At one time, Prime Minister Gowin said that he was looking for allies in his efforts to significantly increase spending on higher education and science. Prime Minister, the opposition is in favour of a substantial increase in this effort. Here, you've found allies. But unfortunately, the government doesn't want to raise this expense high enough. This is evident in the work on this bill. And the difference to the disadvantage between the initial period and today is evident, visible. Concerns about the fate of smaller universities are widely formulated. The protesters stress that the development of the regions is at risk as a change in the structure of funding for science and higher education leading to the concentration of funds in several selected universities threatens the existence of medium-sized and smaller academic centres and deepens the division between metropolitan and periphery. The Act introduces a far-reaching freedom, including for public universities, in shaping the internal organizational structure of universities. It is doubtful whether such break-ups with academic traditions will promote efficient management. It seems that the maintenance of basic organisational units with deans and faculty councils is justified. We would not then have a controversial solution giving the senate the power to give degrees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is negative for this project. And we allow ourselves to make adjustments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u83	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Club Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that you, the majority of the Parliament, did not agree that this law could be given to Parliament at this meeting a little more time. And it's necessary. Therefore, I will allow myself in my speech to focus on only one problem that shows the legislative helplessness of the applicants. This must be treated complementaryly with what I mentioned earlier at first reading. These comments have not changed because they were all rejected by a parliamentary majority at a committee meeting. It's kind of a drama. I am very pleased that the Civic Platform is making such a far-reaching commitment to the environments it represents, and is aware that this law is primarily hitting regional and local smaller academic centres. This case is obvious. There are a lot of arguments behind this, and one of them will be the one I'm going to talk about now. In preparing for my second reading, I had other arguments to support the criticism of this law. Unfortunately, the applicants have partially corrupted these amendments, which they have already boasted about in the media. These amendments do not change the overall helplessness of the drafters of this legislation, moreover, they illustrate it. However, I am pleased that thanks to these amendments, which have already been shown, confirmed, they have granted the right to me and to those who thought that this law is a meaningless creation that harms Polish science and higher education. This is an example of how to get money out of you in a model way. That's an example. the actions described by the proverb saying that the pair goes in the whistle. It's just that for months, you've been organizing congresses, conferences, other events for hard state money to finally admit that your ideas aren't worth a pound of weasel. What the law was supposed to justify was the university council. She was to be a remedy for all the problems of Polish science and higher education, of course in the form that the applicants proposed. And today, what's in this idea of yours? But not all members, which is already unconstitutional, will receive a fair remuneration that is seriously burdening the budget of small and medium-sized universities. So why would you want this college board and want to introduce it? For friends of the rabbit and their son? The legitimacy of this law is also an example of the party attitudes of Members for whom the substantive reasons are nothing compared to the dictation of the chief and the party interests. The PiS Members should just really consider how they will vote on the various amendments, but also how they will vote on the whole of the bill. Today the Ministry admits to me that the university board is basically just a cash cow. Fortunately... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a point on agriculture, Mr President.]] But you can use this comparison. If you don't understand, I can explain to you later what it's all about. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The problem is, ma'am, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought the university board was supposed to have specific competences... [[Don't bother him.]] ...for example, for example. approval of the university's strategy. They're gone now, she won't. Then why is it such a thing? Why? Tell me. You work at college. There could be trust board, there's different kinds of committees, there's some bodies that say there are external stakeholders, but it's done for free, and it doesn't take the money out of the university. This law, you can say, in a sense, is a PO-PiS towards many environments. I have more examples here, but I will give you an example of how the academic community has been manipulated by the adoption of the article. 384, which is supposed to guarantee increased funding for universities and science. It's not, and it's not. We'll never reach the 2% ceiling. the budget, which was simply adopted with Prime Minister Morawiecki. In my opinion, the most PO-PiS was done in a gray way by students who are supposed to support this bill. The problem is, for example. They were denied the right to sit on the General Council of Science and Higher Education, left on university boards, but without money. They will do the same job as the others - of course this job will not be at all, but let's say in quotes - and they will not get any money for it. It's unconstitutional. And now the last sentence. If there were any more protests against this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] These senior professors, you might say they're defending their trough, but young people protest against the bill. Club Kukiz'15 amends this bill. Wait a minute, Marshal, I'll get those corrections. [[To the end of this point.]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u85	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mrs. Marshal! To be honest, I feel like the mountain had a mouse. To be honest, as was the consultation, I very much praised the form in which this law was written, that it was widely consulted with the scientific community, that very often the rectors of universities spoke quite positively, that we were dealing with a large congress, the National Science Congress, on which we heard about all the assumptions for this project, but the problem is that the project we are dealing with today, during today's session of the Sejm, is not at all the project that we discussed at the beginning. Really, where necessary, his teeth have been knocked out, where needed, the changes are perhaps too small and additionally reported during the first reading of the Act 150 amendments, and we hear that there will be forty-six amendments at the time of the second reading. That's not how a law like this works. This is a fundamental reform for science and higher education as a whole, a reform that should really be recognised and accepted by the whole scientific community, and I have the impression that there is no other law that would at the moment so much divide this environment: humanists against the strictest, small universities against large universities. We are dealing with a great conflict and protests that spread throughout Poland. First of all, if we are introducing such a big reform, a reform that is so essential to change quality, we need to think that funding must be provided for it, because there are no miracles, it is impossible to make the mixing of tea sweeter than it is. If we are dealing with a situation where we know that science in Poland is underfunded, that spending on science relative to GDP is one of the lowest in Europe, then let us not say that the situation can be changed by means of such a reform without increasing expenditure. Of course, there are several solutions in this law that require praise, e.g. the issue at all of changing the evaluation of universities to an evaluation by categorising individual disciplines rather than departments. Indeed, the evaluation of the departments was difficult. Very often this was comparing something that is completely incomparable. Comparing disciplines, ordering discipline issues is probably what deserves most praise in this law. At the same time, we should be aware of the regulation, which sets out quite precisely what the rules of this category will be, how universities could adapt to it, as well as universities should know what they are at risk and what situation they will be in if they do not get category B+, A+ or A+. Let us remember that practically everything depends on the category, also the possibility of conducting PhDs and habilitation, and above all the possibility of starting directions. All of this makes it very difficult to assess how categorisation will affect universities without knowing the rules. Doctoral schools. That too is commendable. I would like to draw attention to the question of a certain change in the funding formula, a change in the way the rector manages money, the question that universities can somehow shape their own structure. If they use it wisely, it will indeed provide some degree of additional autonomy and the possibility of a better functioning of the university. It's a teaching path. We also believe that there was a need and it felt in the academic community. However, at the same time this reform started a social conflict, and in an unthinkable way, because e.g. there was no public hearing, which would also allow students, younger workers to speak, so that not only the voice of the rectors would be heard on this bill. Further issues are the lack of resources, the differentiated retirement age. The first version wasn't the version we have. At the moment, I don't know what's gonna happen after these last amendments, because I can't really predict it. The method of proceding, really, 150 plus forty-six. I guess it's clear that this shouldn't be the case for such an important project. I feel like this version isn't good for anybody. Neither serves quality nor serves small centres nor serves university staff nor serves science. We have a version that doesn't satisfy anyone, but everyone is dissatisfied. It's a big responsibility, it's a responsibility that we're going to have to, I feel like we're going to take it blind because we don't know the final version of the project. We do not know how much it would be consulted on what would be the final opinion of the scientific community. What we have right now is not the bill that we had at the beginning and which was consulted. But even with regard to that law, there was no public hearing that would allow a wider group to speak than just a group of rectors and professors of the university. Therefore, we cannot take responsibility for this bill and probably the Modern will be against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u87	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u88	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science, print Nos 2446 and 2563, and the draft Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science, print Nos 2447 and 2564. Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the PiS support Minister Gowin's bill, but they are not happy. That's one way to say about the government camp. [[Applause]] But let's leave it because it's not important. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me quote a few quotes. It is not true that the draft law was the subject of extensive consultation with the scientific community. It is difficult to consider such conferences organised by the Ministry, during which the convention of the monologue of the presentation party dominated. And further: We do not agree to the degradation of smaller universities and the deepening of the civilization division of our country, i.e. the division into Poland A and Poland B. There is a signature here, among others. NSZZ.Solidarity of the University of Bialystok. Hello, hello, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, isn't this the region where people believed your bullshit and voted for you so many times in the last election? Now you can see how they can feel - and feel - deceived. I don't want to kill you, but, well, another quote. The Ministry's authorities boast of a wide public consultation in the academic community. However, we must remember and stress that in our view these are sham actions. And there's still a litany of mistakes in the Minister Gowin's bill. Signed: NSZZ.Solidarity, Jagiellonian University. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be made clear here that this is an expression of extraordinary solidarity between the academic community, because according to Minister Gowin's law at smaller universities it will be very difficult to pursue a scientific career, because degrees will have to be obtained in other centres, e.g. in Warsaw or in Cracow, whose position will increase relatively. And yet - as we read - Krakow, ladies and gentlemen, protests. Plus, let's add the voice of the Sejm Office of Analysis, which did not leave a dry thread on the draft bill. Finally, the voice of students who protest in Warsaw against the politicisation of universities. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Not only in Warsaw, because in other cities too. Minister Gowin, how many more arguments does it take to turn you from the wrong path? I'm really sorry. I'm gonna change the subject for a second. I remember, in your previous term of office, when you were Minister of Justice for the Civic Platform, you closed the courts in local Poland. It was thanks to the actions, ladies and gentlemen, that the PSL managed to restore the local courts, almost 80 institutions, so that our fellow countrymen did not have to travel ten kilometers to reach the courts in other localities. That's when the Sejm revoked your bill. Perhaps there will be a repeat on higher education. Minister, it's nothing personal. I just don't think you can know everything. Therefore, it is worth listening to the voice of the academic community. This is for our common good, for the sake of our children who will want to be educated in a few years' time, but also for those who are already studying and often thinking about their scientific career, because this is the first time students have organized protests in many places since 1989. Minister, I am aware that the line of your power camp is centralizing everything, limiting the idea of self-determination, self-government, but please understand that people just don't like it. Students do not agree with a reform that radically reduces the self-government of universities, subjecting them to the almighty rectors and university councils, new bodies, which will consist mostly of people outside the university. After all, Polish young people have a famous gene of freedom in their blood, so they will not give up, Prime Minister, they have concrete demands. I would like to ask: Do the demands of the Academic Protest Committee have a chance to be considered by the Ministry? Are you even going to talk to those who are de facto affected by your bill? Minister, I ask you to reflect and once again measure your priorities. It is not always the political ambition of the individual to take the upper hand, sometimes it is the good of the general. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u89	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Cornel Morawiecki, the Free and the Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! This law is a bad law, because it is a bureaucratic law, very extensive, in many places unclear, and it is also a law that divides the scientific community, divides Poles. It is a very incoherent act and it is unfavorable against the background of the general actions of the current government, Prime Minister Szydło and the Government of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Let me just give you two examples. All, or actually most of the amendments tabled in the committee are gone, but I will give you examples of two amendments that have been tabled and which, of course, have not been accepted. One is that employees of PAN institutes have similar salaries to those of university staff, because they have lower salaries, although PAN institutes often have higher scientific achievements than universities. There's an amendment to the article. 137 plus paragraph saying that this article applies to employees of institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. This amendment would be responsible for an increase in the budget of around 36 million in terms of these measures, which is a small cost. I would like to say that an employee of the institute, my colleague, professor of computer science, an extraordinary professor at the Institute of Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw earns 2600 PLN net. That's his net profit. This is the first amendment that was rejected. The second amendment, also rejected, was even more general, because it concerned matters related to the modern way of teaching, the so-called Internet teaching. e-learning. There's art. Sixty-three, which says half of the students have to go to college. This means that this trend, this modern trend, this trend, that the great universities in the world, in developed countries are introducing a universal online teaching, is administratively limited by this law. And this is a very big mistake, this bill is old-fashioned in its spirit. That's why me and our entire circle are against this bill. We would like to propose at least a year to postpone this matter and discuss it so that neither this environment nor the Polish society can be divided. Many arguments have already been made here, and I do not want to repeat this, but also these strikes at universities - strike committees are being prepared at other universities - they will only cause confusion, create social imbalances. We will do damage to ourselves, especially to those poorer social classes that cannot afford to study - as planned in the bill - enough to say, elite universities, few universities in large cities, where these studies cost a young man many thousands of zlotys in the sense that he has to rent an apartment, etc. As if a part of the Polish youth living in the province is being picked up, it is difficult for her to gain a higher education. It is a very little solidarity law and this is my main charge. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u92	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Although you tried to call the bill presented today a reform different from all others, the procedure for working on it in the committee last week showed clearly that closer to you, Minister, to the PiS waltz. There is no courage to take part in a real public debate, including with Members of the opposition. More than 150 government amendments and opposition amendments have been submitted to the bill. At the moment, there are protests of students and dorms that oppose planned changes in Poland. If this project had been as well consulted as you presented it, as it looked like it was, then everything would have been different. Looking at the shape of the law, the announcements of subsequent changes and the real effects that we see today, it is impossible to resist the impression that the whole process of drafting the law, as far as the big time and financial commitment is concerned, has simply failed. Before I move on to the presentation of my position, I would like to remind you that from the very beginning I was involved in the work on the bill. I attended congresses of Polish science, several dozen meetings with experts, mainly in Wielkopolska, but I also held debates both in the Sejm and in the parliamentary office. I submitted comments during the preliminary consultation phase from September to February. Members have raised various issues in their statements, and I will no longer repeat them, and I will focus on funding. On the basis of an analysis of the discussions, it can be made clear that this law is striking private universities in a completely incomprehensible way. Firstly, there is no justification for the sixfold increase in the required funding for the establishment of a university - from 500 000. you raise to PLN 3 million. Secondly, in the article. 165 you are preventing the creation of federations between private and public universities. What's my comment on these recipes? I believe that these are no changes, no proposals that protect the market or improve the quality of services. That's it. It's a mess of the market. If you want these weak universities to fall out of the market, you have tools for that, you don't have to generate that kind of legislation. I think it is a good thing, Prime Minister, that there are new players that can effectively respond to student demand, and not from public funds. Another question is whether the Ministry is able to effectively and equally control the quality of private and public universities. What are you afraid of when it comes to federations? After all, there are many examples of public-private partnerships around the world, which are efficient, excellent quality. Moreover, in their presentations at the Congress of Science in Krakow, examples of such partnerships were given as those on which we will model, after which the Act does not allow us to establish such partnerships. Prime Minister! I do not understand, after all, you knew very well, by undertaking the reform of the bill, that you would violate certain status quo, that courage, determination is needed, but above all, a clearly defined goal is needed. My question to you is: Is this really the goal you have set yourself, that you and your colleagues will achieve? To me, it's already blurry. Thirdly, the provisions in Article are completely incomprehensible in the case of private universities. 347, which requires the publication of data on sources of funding, financial results. Ladies and gentlemen, this law completely does not involve the private sector of universities in the financing system, and this was done many years ago in the case of a more sensitive sector, i.e. health care, contrary to concerns for the benefit of patients. You raise the share capital, and then in the reports, you have to confess every penny, forcing it to be made public. After all, you know that these will be very often unethical tools of competition, especially during the recruitment process. Not every parent of a potential student, not every student can read the profit and loss account. It does not know that sometimes loss results simply from launching new directions, when big initial expenditures are needed or simply the university without grants invests in the development of its institution. In any case, at every step you express a great deal of distrust towards everything that is private and a great deal of faith in everything that is state. I would like to make two more points. Namely in the article. 55 (2) There is still an unclear, arbitrary, harmful provision, and I believe that the Minister may not authorise the establishment of studies if they do not meet socio-economic needs. Secondly, Article 2 was deleted from the Act. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the In a situation where women on average reach a profession at the age of 58, after 2 years, we send women professors to retire. And don't tell me in this place that it's not a duty, that it's a privilege. No, it's not a privilege. I would like to offer to speak frankly, openly to this environment, to women, just professors of 60+, who are under pressure. The proposals of Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin are called a constitution for science, as they are supposed to introduce comprehensive changes in this area. On the other hand, the Polish Academy of Sciences has been, in the opinion of many people, an institution for years calling for ordering in matters of supervision and management. Currently, the supervision of the Polish Academy of Sciences is divided according to not entirely clear rules between the Ministry and KPRM, and within the framework of the Polish Academy of Sciences itself, its President has repeatedly pointed out the lack of effective control of institutes. The Constitution for Science does not in any way try to solve some of the problems faced by the Polish Academy of Sciences. Why? Prime Minister! Probably the bill will pass regardless of the protests and amendments tabled by the opposition, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But stand here and, in the name of responsibility for future generations, answer the question: When will this most important change be? real increase in funding for higher education and science in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our speeches on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Mr Jarosław Gowin, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, asked for the floor of the Minister for Science and Higher Education. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you so much for all your comments. Allow me to refer to some of these most important charges. Firstly, some of you expressed concerns about the protests that appeared at several universities in Poland. I would like to say that, on a national scale, several hundred students of 1.5 million are protesting. At the same time and before submitting the Act to the High Sejm, and in recent days and even in recent hours, support for the Act has been given to all representative grammar of the academic community. Here at the gallery are representatives of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland. They are the final representatives of 1.5 million Polish students. Once again an hour ago, the student parliament confirmed that the law had been consulted from the beginning with the whole academic community, including with the students, that the student regulations had been written to a great extent together with the representatives of this community and that it was a very simple law. The question is how do we understand democracy. Discussions, as Mrs Lubnauer pointed out, but indirectly acknowledged by Mrs Schmidt too, took a very long time. Two and a half years of consultation. I attended about 120 different types of consultation meetings. In total, around 10,000 took part in this consultation, either in writing or directly. scientists, PhD students, university administrative staff. As supported by the Act, the Parliament of Polish Students representing all Polish students, the same law, also an hour ago, supported the National Representation of PhD students, supported the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, i.e. the body which is selected bottom-up. It was also supported by all conferences of the rectors, of all types of universities, not only by the biggest ones, as some of you suggested. State rectors of higher vocational schools also stress that for the first time these vocational universities are taken seriously, in partnership with the government. Finally, the bill was supported by the so-called law. Zielona Góra agreement bringing together a group of twenty-several middle-sized universities, such as Zielona Góra University, Jan Kochanowski University in Kielce, etc. This is where I move on to the second of the charges that came in your speeches. The law supposedly divides universities for better and worse, divides Poles, favors metropolises. How, then, can you explain that the stakeholders themselves, i.e. the representatives of small universities and secondary universities, give the bill firm support? Incoherently, because there is no law in Poland that would be unanimously supported by all Poles. The academic community is diverse in its views, as well as in its interests. We have tried to balance these views and interests. The law certainly follows the principle of sustainable development, introducing for the first time a whole range of different instruments supporting regional universities, such as: regional excellence initiatives addressed to secondary universities, regional teaching initiatives addressed to public professional universities. A list of these activities, calculated to support secondary and lower education institutions, could be continued for a long time. I would like to say with full conviction that this law gives a chance for development to all universities in Poland. Of course, we are talking about the principle of sustainable development, not sustainable stagnation. If one of you thinks that stagnation is a good thing, that Polish universities represent a sufficiently high level and in terms of education, and in terms of research, then we are indeed different here. However, every group of universities, every type of university and every single university has a chance to develop. The second fundamental question was the question of the university council. Mr. Professor. Nykiel said the university board was violating autonomy. First of all, Minister, university autonomy is guaranteed constitutionally. [[The independence of the tribunal, too.]] Secondly, almost everyone, for example the rector of the University of Warsaw, Mr.Prof. Pałys, but examples of such statements can be cited indefinitely, emphasize that this law gives far greater autonomy to universities, among others. because it allows them to determine the internal structure themselves. Today it is that Polish universities resemble these Russian ladies, right, such wooden ladies. There's one grandmother, she opens up, there's another one inside, just the same smaller one, and the next one opens up -- again the same one. Why? [[Voice from the room: These are the matrios.]] In the academic world in Poland there is a huge internal potential, resulting, among others. from pluralism. We all know great universities in the world, which divide not into faculty, but into college, schools, etc. Why do we want to deny this right to Polish universities? Probably the vast majority of them will choose a departmental structure. The bill doesn't eliminate departments. The bill eliminates the need to divide into departments. In this sense, it is a law of deep freedom. I'll also admit that I don't understand Mr. Marshal Morawiecki's accusation that this law bureaucrats universities. Mr. Marshal, there are four laws today, many times amended, in many ways no longer readable. We're replacing them with one bill. The overall volume of legislation is no longer twice as small, as it was at first, after various amendments, which also take into account the voices of this House. This is no longer a double thinner bill, but the number of regulations is still radically smaller than the number that is currently in force. University Councils, why they should violate the autonomy of the university. Is university autonomy violated in Germany? Is university autonomy violated in many EU countries? Isn't the European Commission, for many of you, not for all of you, for me, the European Commission is not a special oracle... [[We know that.]] ...but for many of you, the European Commission is a very important institution... Take a look at the European Commission's September report. r., where there is a clear recommendation to introduce councils in Polish universities, also because universities not only in Poland, but everywhere in the world, tend to close in an ivory tower. Councils in which, according to the original project, more than half of the members were to come from outside universities are also intended to serve as a transmission belt between universities and the social environment. Universities are supposed to serve society, that's their most important goal, and that's what advice is meant to do. [[They're supposed to be autonomous.]] Because academic environments like in other countries... Everywhere advice appeared, the academic community looked at it with a crooked eye. Protests also appeared in Poland. Therefore, the package of amendments presented by the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, the United Right, contains a number of changes limiting the competence of the Councils. The Councils become indeed an advisory body, not a co-decision body. Professor Nykiel, in my opinion, was unreasonable in saying that the fact that more than half of the board members would be outside the university is a violation of autonomy. This is not a violation of autonomy, but good, we give universities the opportunity to recruit most of the board members from the university. Strategies, according to these amendments of the PiS club, will be decided not by the council, but by the Senate. Candidates for the rector will be able, alongside the council, to indicate the bodies of the university that the university in the statutes will be entitled to do so. Once again, we're expanding our autonomy at the university. Some of you stressed that the law does not sufficiently guarantee financial facilities for these reforms. Of course, we would like this increase in spending on science and higher education to be greater. But, ladies and gentlemen, next year this increase will be 3,700 million. Take a look at the history of Polish parliamentarianism after 1989 and find a budget in which it would be comparable at least to the increase in spending on science and higher education. [[And in relation to GDP, what's it like? In relation to GDP!]] In relation to GDP, this will also be progress. Once again, I would like to stress that I really believe - it is difficult for me, as Minister of Science and Higher Education, to believe otherwise - that these expenditures are worth raising in the coming years. But 3700 million is one financial injection. The Act introduces a constant algorithm for annual growth in science spending, so we have a guarantee that these expenditures will increase in relation to GDP. And we finally announced that next year there will be increases in universities. This is another serious financial injection. Some of you considered that such a number of amendments This is proof that the project was badly prepared. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is proof of the integrity of our intentions and openness to dialogue. We have indeed accepted a great deal of demands, including at this last stage, in the second reading, in the postulates put forward and by the Law and Justice Club, and by organisations bringing together students, PhD students, academics, as well as some postulates of opposition clubs. I think I should be commended rather than reprimanded for that. Marshal Morawiecki accused the bill of two specific weaknesses, namely that the law does not provide for an increase in salary for employees of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Mr. Marshal, the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences is a separate act. Moreover, the Polish Academy of Sciences is governed not by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, but by the Prime Minister. And it is the Prime Minister who is the right recipient of this one of yours, otherwise the right one, the right one. [[Voice from the room: Together with GetBack, he got it.]] I am convinced that Prime Minister Morawiecki will agree to this request. Only your Marshal's accusation against this bill is inadequate. I also don't understand this charge of e-learning. Do we really want to allow a situation where there are supposed to be more absentee students in public universities? No. The law maintains this solution that in public universities at least half of students are to be students studying in fixed mode, but this does not mean closing in on e-learning. After all, in stationary mode - I do not know if all - very many universities in Poland provide e-learning classes. And generally speaking, this law is very, I think, modernising Polish universities. I'm almost done. I would like to say that this law is not the only step that we have taken in this term of office to improve the functioning of Polish universities. There was a deregulation law limiting bureaucracy, there were two innovation laws and a law on implementation doctorates. The role of these three laws was to build a bridge between science and the economy. [[In research institutions, it's terrible.]] There are new rules for funding pro-quality universities, algorithms, leaving the fact that the more students, the more money. The proportion between the number of students and the number of researchers is taken into account, not the overall number of students. This is the Scandinavian model, that's how Scandinavians finance universities. In addition, for the first time in the funding of universities, we have started to take into account the real scientific achievements of these universities, measured by the categories that universities or individual departments receive, and in the future, as Mrs Lubnauer has rightly pointed out, individual disciplines will be obtained. And there are results, ladies and gentlemen. In the last ranking, one of the three most prestigious rankings of the university in the world - QS World University Ranking University of Warsaw was promoted to the fourth hundred, the Jagiellonian University is in the fifth hundred, but promoted by 60 positions. They have raised their positions to other universities, which so far have been in the first thousand universities in the world. But the most important thing is this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 14 Polish universities appeared in the first thousand, for the first time 14 universities appeared, including five new ones. This is the best proof that the reforms we're introducing are working well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u95	Thank you, Prime Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. I'm closing... [[I'm still, I'm sorry, I'm still here.]] You're welcome, sir, to sign up. After that name, I close the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Before we begin our questions, let me say hello to the students of the General High School. Marcin Wadowity in Wadowice. Enjoy your stay and positive experiences. [[Applause]] [[And students from the college parliament.]] But they're not in the plenary room right now, in the audience. [[Voice from the room: They're sitting there.]] We're going to ask questions. You are launching Mr Mikhal Szczerba, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would suggest, Prime Minister, that you do not abuse the formulation of the 'freedom project', because today we learned that GetBack, from the letter of the President of GetBack to the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, was the back of the Freedom Camp. But that's another question. In this room, you will not hear the gaudeamus igiturs, no one will call you: 'Vivat Minister!', after the words: 'Vivat Academia, vivant professores!', because from the very beginning you have been pinned in by the parliamentary majority. Mr. Vice-Marshal Terlecki, who questioned this project from the very beginning, became famous in this matter. The senior marshal joined today. It is very sad that your two-year efforts have caused such reactions. But, to be very honest, we are here, in this place, also to express our respect for the Academic Protest Committee at the University of Warsaw, against the participants of the nationwide protest against Law 2.0, because by the procedure of proceding this law in the Sejm and the lack of consent to a public hearing, you have proved that dialogue and the Minister and the parliamentary majority do not care. This law can be harmful, this law introduces the government of the minister and the government of the rector - no wonder there are rectors who support this project. We therefore call for a real dialogue [[♪ The bell ♪]] with all the parties concerned by this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u97	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What's the question? He forgot.]] [[He knows everything. Because he knows everything.]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You lacked a pair so you could present this proposal very nicely after these amendments. Who wrote you this project? Who wrote you this project, that since October the rectors of the university, e.g. Subcarpathian, were they criticizing him? Who wrote you this project that you are taking academics from universities today, taking chances from universities from the east and from the west, from Zielona Góra to Rzeszów, Lublin, Białystok? You're making students protest. We understand them because the project is bad, since you were trying to make 150 new amendments, and now 50 more. Maybe you should've agreed to a public hearing. Then we wouldn't have any protests, then the minister who wrote this project to order maybe they'd finally reflect. Or do you need more time? Maybe you should be the one who doesn't want to be a undertaker of Polish science, an academic undertaker at universities from the east? I would like to say that even your former Deputy Minister Bobko, Rzeszowski University rector, protested against this. You take Rzeszow, Lublin, Bialymustok and other environments, young people, possibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] studying and, above all, creating big problems for young people who want to study in these centres.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u100	It's time for reflection, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Higher education should be reformed, but not in this way. You say, Minister, in response to our allegations that there are protests: yes, but not everyone. Minister, that's not an argument. They shouldn't protest. I wanted to draw your attention, Minister, that for the first time in 30 years students and some of the casts of the University of Warsaw have protested. Yesterday, students from AGH, Gdańsk University of Technology and Gdańsk University joined them. As much as I sympathize with them all, the more so that there are real errors in this bill. The point is that you're suggesting that scientists retire at the age of 60 and 65. I wanted to point out to you that the average age in which you get a profession in our country is 58 years, which is two years - for women - when you get a profession, when your mind is most efficient when it comes to teaching other generations, you will throw these people out of parentheses, without the possibility of further learning. I wanted to ask you what happened to the smaller universities, which are already having doubts about whether they're going to be completely abandoned. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u103	Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This isn't a protest. Just groups of students, just like you said. Scientific workers also protest. I wanted to ask you if you had received a letter from Szczecin University's scientific staff. That's over 80 names of people who signed up. It highlights the unprecedented threat of eliminating the autonomy of public universities in Poland through the councils of the universities you spoke about, de facto controlling political universities. They themselves remain out of control, because the Minister's political control cannot be counted as independent controls. Don't you see the role of Minister for Smaller Academic Centres in Urban Development? Is it, in your opinion, sustainable development to be placed only at the expense of the big academic centers? Increase the budget, don't manipulate the university's statutes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask what was the last version of the project after several hundred amendments concerning the status of universities in smaller centres. And here I don't think about cities like Lublin or Rzeszów, but I think about cities like Nowy Sącz, Wałbrzych or Jelenia Góra. They operate in higher vocational schools. What's their rank? Do you still, instead of supporting these centres, which are an important element of the country's sustainable development, condemn them to degradation, create great problems regarding their continued functioning. Why such an aversion to smaller centres? After all, they are an opportunity for the whole country, they are an opportunity for young people, for all of us. Recently, the Prime Minister did not answer that question when I asked it at first reading. I would ask you to make a firm and unambiguous statement about these universities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u107	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When I questioned at first reading the matter of recording the university board as an organ that threatens the autonomy of the university, Professor Andrzej Jajszczyk, who advises you on this matter, on this bill, convinced me that this is a very good solution, that this is a solution that works in the West. And the Minister also spoke about it today. Maybe. Perhaps this is a solution that normally works well, especially where private universities are. Of course, he has the right to give direction to the owner who has his crew. But in this country, which is ruled by the PiS, this university council is a threat, it was a threat to the university, to the autonomy of the university, because it is known that you are all moving from the PiS, including Prime Minister Gowin, to absolute submission of the party state. It is a good thing that, as a result of these protests, the Minister bowed down and changed the matter, changed the record. But I'd like to ask the Minister why he was so disrespectful about protesting students here today. He says: Well it is in Poland, several universities, several hundred students. First of all, not a few, but more. And secondly, if the Minister were to look at Internet forums, he'd see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that is the full support of many, many university employees. Why are you ignoring this environment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u109	Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Other students throughout Poland, because it is not only about Warsaw, but also about Łódź, Poznań, Katowice and Opole, join protesting students. They protest because the proposed regulations radically restrict the self-government of universities, subjecting them to newly created bodies composed of people from outside universities. But I want to ask about regional universities, such as: Wałbrzych, rooted and perfectly inscribed in local communities, rapidly developing, which educate and release further yearbooks of students into the world. At the moment, you want to take away some of their funding and limit the possibility of carrying out research. And I want a concrete answer from the Minister: Why did you make such decisions? Why did you not consult these solutions, but those now proposed, with hundreds of amendments, with students of regional universities? Why don't you respect the environment you're supposed to serve as a minister and not just apply orders and prohibitions to him? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u111	Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Everyone's all for it, but somebody's against it. And this is such a very special arrangement, because I'm talking to these people, I'm talking to science representatives, I'm talking to the rectors of the university. When there were protests in small communities, in small universities, you would appear everywhere and throw millions of zlotys - here a few, here several dozen, here several dozens - for various projects that so far did not have your approval. We will fight in smaller centres such as Bydgoszcz, we will oppose the degradation of universities such as the University of Kazimierz the Great, the University of Technology and Nature, because it is the work of many generations of Bydgoszcz scientists and students. One thing that also causes me to be against this law is the degradation of Polish humanities. In your speech, you left out the subject very neatly. Not every study, Minister, not every science book must end with a design of a digital machine. Scientists also want to write about philosophy, about poetry, about management theory, about everything that we need to know, what this digital machine is supposed to be for. And that's why the degradation of humanities is a huge flaw in this bill. Therefore, like many scientific communities, many people from scientific backgrounds, including Bydgoszcz and smaller centres with which we are solidarity, will definitely oppose this law. There is one truth: without money, Minister, even the best law will not work, and in the case of this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no money yet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u113	Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's draft Law on Higher Education and Science was widely discussed and analysed with members of the Education, Science and Youth Committee as well as with the scientific community and students. Let me give you a concrete example. As a Member from the Płock-Ciechan district, I organized a meeting with Minister Piotr Müller at the State Higher Vocational School in Ciechanów. There was a very large turnout of the scientific community and students, there was a constructive discussion, and that is what is concrete about how this project was discussed. I have two more questions for the Minister about this. What kind of reservations were addressed in connection with the university council introduced in the law? How does the bill define the rules for charging students and how does it safeguard their interests in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u115	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, a modern club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How do you want to reassure the academic community and Eastern Poland and ensure continuity of teaching traditions in higher education in remote cities of smaller cities, where large universities are concentrated? The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office indicated the very adverse effects on universities in smaller cities of changes in the system of assessment of scientific quality, followed by less powers and less funding. The social and economic consequences of the proposed law's entry into force for Eastern Poland's voivodships will be unambiguously negative, which is associated with, among others. from the migration of many people to academic agglomerations, the exit of capital and, in the long term, the deterioration of the civilization and cultural status of these regions. Eastern Poland will be assessed as a region without prospects in which it does not invest in science and research, which can lead to an increasing social and economic gap. The Eastern Poland Voivodship clearly loses on the proposed reform. Simulation shows that none of today's universities in eastern Poland will maintain university status, which applies to universities such as: Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin or Białystok University. The university rank is the only one for so-called. the eastern wall will be maintained by the Catholic University of Lublin, which has public-private status, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the laws don't apply to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u117	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u118	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened to today's debate here and, to be honest, I am a little surprised because the Member from Kukiz'15 said in his speech that the authority of the university council is too small. An envoy from the club following him. PSL was talking about the Sovereign Council of the University. One of the Members of the opposition said you were taking the minister of academics from our universities. I wanted to ask you what it's really like with this college board. What do you think she's gonna be entitled to? Will she really be powerful, or will she not have any rights? What about the academics, Prime Minister? Will he be in Poland or not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u119	Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We probably all see, as we are here, the need and necessity to change science, to change higher education as well. I guess that's all we have in common. On the other hand, the question is whether this bill, which was presented by the Prime Minister, continues to unite us, because it appears that there is no such unity. There is certainly total criticism, whereas the fact that there is criticism here in the courtroom is also fine, because it is necessary, but it also concerns the fact that the academic community is divided. I have a question because it's disturbing. The number may not necessarily be important, Prime Minister, but those who protest are in the minority of students, what do they point out? What are they talking about? Why are they protesting? Please indicate here specific provisions which are allegedly against students. The second thing is the humanist problem. Many amendments have been made, but the question is whether and why humanists still see some danger to themselves, because indeed we all receive such letters. Another, last, most important thing for me is whether and why some smaller universities protest. Is there really any danger to smaller universities from this law that we are talking about here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u121	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Act, academic and expert circles undermine the independence of universities and threaten their autonomy. These changes are behind the threat of politicising the academy, especially in the context of insufficient funding for higher education. It is said that the reform of higher education was widely consulted, but what did this consultation look like? In this case, 3,000 have been reported. Notes, 99% of which were rejected. Students all over the country are protesting. They appeal: We want a democratic university free of external political pressure. We want a transparent system and security of freedom and research. Can the planned reform guarantee this? Will it be clarified in this way? Because if you don't, it's gonna be a very bad reform. I have a question for you. How much longer will the law-making in our country under the PiS rule be characterized by haste, chaos, mess and mediocreness? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u123	Thank you. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u124	Dear Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The scientific community, students, PhD students have legitimate concerns and we have pointed out all these dangers during the committee meeting, unfortunately our vote has not been heard. We have tabled amendments, but they have been widely rejected by the parliamentary majority, as the public hearing has been rejected. Since March and even February, you have not responded, Prime Minister and Minister, to my discussions on the bill and consultation. So I will also ask here how you spent almost PLN 5 million on consulting and promoting your face for public money, and now students are protesting. I still have specific questions for Minister Müller, because you were to consider and consult with the tax office about scholarships for PhD students and students. I wanted to ask you what happened to protecting the rights of acquired people who are already PhD students. I wanted to ask you about the defense of autonomy and the admiration of the Rector of Pałys, who actually tabled amendments on the position of professors at universities. And what about the announcement and the possibility of accepting doctoral work in English? By the way, I'm making further amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 50 to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u125	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first thing is to consult with the student parliament. How is that possible? Were these 200 amendments consulted? Because it's a different, completely new project. More questions, two questions. What are the guarantees for humanities? I didn't find one. Which provisions of this law do not give a guarantee, but at least allow us to think that Polish science and Polish universities will be competitive? From so far: All data indicate that they are not competitive. What the Minister said about moving a few universities was not because of this bill, but because of the previous one. [[Applause]] We're told by protesting students, and there's not enough of them, they're representatives of... Minister, you must not leave - this is our future, this is our intelligence - these people without talking to them. You just can't do it. Why? Because the three threats I was talking about, that's why. The independence of the university... What's the threat? You're talking about the council. I've been through this three times, and now it's the third time. Former NAWA, National Academic Exchange Agency - creating a council. Why? Everyone said it was unnecessary, it's political, and this advice is completely unnecessary. GUM, Main Office of Measures, the same thing - creating a council and giving it special competence. They were small units, and now it's all about the universities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it possible, in this way, to take away the freedom to decide on a strategy, to choose the authorities, the academic community, and to give it to a council? I don't think that's gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Project Law on Higher Education and Science, so-called Law 2.0 introduces a number of amendments which aim, among other things, to achieve this goal. unlocking the potential of Polish science. The model of doctoral training in Poland is to be completely rebuilt. So I have a question about what the situation of PhD students will look like in the light of these records, as well as whether any special facilities are foreseen for this group of people and what the path of education, investigation to the degree of doctor will look like. Many Members have asked questions about small regional universities. I, too, will not be original in this respect and I will ask, Prime Minister, whether smaller universities such as: The University of Humanities and Nature or the University of Technology in Częstochowa, in the light of this law, can they be calm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u129	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The first point, I think, is that it is often discussed here, and which I would also like to raise, is concerns about the threat of gradual and increasing domination of the most important and best universities over those currently located right behind them, not to mention universities from smaller cities. Does the Act create mechanisms to prevent the gradual deepening of disparities and the threat of degradation of many universities? And two specific points. On the one hand, the scientific community was very critical of the current model of habilitation in relation to the previous model, from years ago. At that time the work was written and there was a habilitation colloquium, which was an opportunity to see the habilitant and present himself, and not, as it was the last time, that often no one saw him. So why so shy proposals of records that the habilitation committee can carry out a habilitation colloquium, and only in the field of humanities, social sciences and theological sciences? And then there's the second line. With regard to obtaining a professor's title, it is surprising to abandon the requirement to promote PhD students. What are the motivations for being a promoter? This is often a process of several years and after habilitation it was always a very important area of scientific activity. On the other hand, does this not create a gateway to the fact that immediately after the habilitating, they will apply for a professorship? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Surprisingly, like all of us here, and with disbelief accepted information about scale and quantity of amendments to the government law on higher education, called Law 2.0. We know that the bill has been consulted for over two years. As you can see, and after the number of amendments, and after the protests of the scientific community, there are no compromises in all aspects. Questions can be asked without a few questions, and it is done by colleagues. I would like to focus on two issues in terms of long-term and international impacts. Firstly, what is the idea of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to increase the wages of scientists, educators, the widely understood scientific community to a European level, so that we can talk about keeping researchers in the country? How is this growth - because I understand that it is assumed - to spread over time? Secondly, in what period and in how many places does the Ministry assume to improve the position of Polish education, Polish universities in international rankings after the introduction of the above law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u134	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Since I have been working with the State Higher Vocational School in Pile since 2000, the question will concern PWSZ in Poland. I can hear here from the opposition how these schools are going to malfunction. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We ask questions.]] [[Can you hear the sweats? How can you hear the sweat?]] How it is that the Rector and Senate of the State Higher Vocational School in Pile in their statement of 11 June wrote as follows: The Rector and Senate of the State Higher Vocational School in Pile have actively participated in consultations and work on the principles of the Constitution for Science Act for the past 2 years. These activities concerned in particular part of its provisions relating to public vocational schools in which the university submitted a number of requests which were finally adopted and which are in the current form of this law. So the question is: : Will this law strengthen the position of state higher vocational schools or not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[If our sweats were out, it was...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u135	Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Maybe it's a picture for starters because I'm listening to those voices that come out. I talked to the person who said last week, the bill is wrong. I asked why. And we started talking. At the end of the conversation, it turned out that this person did not fit in one article. I said, "But there was time to report it." We didn't report it because college buddies have different opinions. This is, I think, an illustration of this. Today we have also heard assurances in the case of issues that were sensitive, that as a result of corrections, the situation is completely different and can be calm about smaller universities, about the future of academics in Poland. Nevertheless, things that are sometimes from a few months ago are still repeated persistently to scare the crap out of who. And to be honest, I would like to know the concrete, real demands of protesting students, not the sign again about freedom, about democracy, because that's not enough. [[Freedom is not sacred, sir.]] And the question is, does the idea of the university's federation actually open up a new one, [[♪ The bell ♪]] An interesting perspective? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u137	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Look, Minister, this is a passage from the magazine: The illusion of joining the world's top dictates concentration of resources and mechanical removal of funds to those who do not meet arbitraryly imposed criteria. In cities without universities there will not only be an innovative economy, but also educated people. Available public documents, e.g. The Sejm Analysis Offices show that the inevitable consequence of this law will be a deepening of the negative differences, contrary to the constitutional principle of equality between all citizens. The evaluation according to the new criteria introduced by the law and its binding regulation will lead to the marginalisation of many universities. That's what Szczecin University scientists wrote. There are very different people out there. It's there, for example. My professor, Mr Kazimierz Kozłowski, a very respected figure in Szczecin, is there Inga Iwasiów, an outstanding intellectual, professor, there are my colleagues with whom I have studied, who have already had academic achievements today, have doctoral degrees, there are PhD students on whom the Minister referred. [[Science degree.]] I have the impression, Minister, that you're slightly disregarding the voice of these people. This is one hundred and dozen people who signed up under this letter and who are very important to me as a Member of Szczecin. They're important to me. The university is important to me. I would like you to convince me from this place that the University of Szczecin will be the basis for my city's development, because for my city, there is no more important university for us. Rostock and Greifswald - this is Mecklenburg - two small towns and two large universities. I'd like Szczecin to have a university no smaller than Rostock and Greifswald, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And even bigger. I'd like you to take this into account, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u139	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u140	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! In the recommendations on the Law on Higher Education we read with satisfaction that it is a reform other than all, developed jointly with the academic community. The Prime Minister also gave concrete examples and information on this issue. And the opposition - well, nothing new - makes accusations, often unsubstantiated, even sarcastic. Members talk about events, about couples whistled, criticize. The Prime Minister spoke about two years of consultation, Members of the opposition, about the urgency to work on the bill. [[In the Seym.]] When we listen to the academic community and make amendments, the opposition says it's wrong, because the act of evil is because there are amendments. Minister, please remind us very much what the process of drafting the bill looked like, in particular how the consultation took place and what the most important demands were taken into account as a result of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u141	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! And you're a success, because just like the communists 37 years ago, you united the academic community. Students, young scientists, professors, university senates protest against the bill you're proposing. And the protest is directed at those solutions that undermine the autonomy of universities, but it is also opposed to what you are trying to restore. In 1981, students protested against the authority of the rectors. They were the ones who made the call for the election of the rectors in higher education. And today you want to give the rectors full power to the universities. That's not enough. You still want the candidates for the rectors to point out organs that aren't just made up of academics. And that's a crime. This is a crime that no one will forget. Now you're laughing, but you're gonna be ashamed of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u143	Mr Józef Brynus, Kukiz'15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Michalek, I will explain to you why I was talking about the university council. If you didn't understand then, I'm sure you'll understand now. The university board, from which the concept as an institution that can change anything, I fundamentally disagree... [[That's not what I asked. No.]] That's what you asked. ...had some competence in this original version, now there are none. She's just gonna give an opinion, and she's gonna take the money for it, which is gonna cost the college's budgets. [[That's not what I asked.]] I have a few questions for the Minister, on the other hand. The first one's like this. Which article of this law guarantees the right of professional universities to conduct scientific research and also gives them the right to doctoral and habilitation? That's the first thing. The second issue concerns finance. Ladies and gentlemen, you've introduced an article. 384 - before I was wrong, when I talked about it - such a record which means that in practice the stream of money to universities and science will not be any bigger will be smaller. There was a simple record that we proposed. We reach the 2% ceiling within 8 years. by raising the funding of universities by 0.1% within one year. You just threw it out for one simple reason - because that's what the Minister of Finance wanted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u145	Mrs Joanna Schmidt, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u146	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I will refer to individual, specific articles, because many such general terms fall here. But before I go about it, I would like to refer to Mrs Joanna Borowiak's statement. Given the consultation, the number of amendments, as if I do not see any objections to the whole process, to the fact that it has been undertaken with such effort and with commitment, whether financial or temporary. It is just a matter of admitting that this process has failed to some extent, because after 1.5 years of consultation, nine congresses, the issue of several million zlotys for these congresses, the consultation, the submission of amendments by February, the next stage of the amendments, we have a two-day committee meeting lasting several hours when more than 200 amendments are tabled, and we have 400 articles a week later there is a second reading and there are announcements of subsequent changes under the influence of the pressures of the different groups and environments again. That's what we're asking. We are asking about the whole process where he failed and how the Prime Minister will deal with it. I repeat my question because you have not referred to it, Prime Minister. Please, what other than political arguments do you have not to equalize the retirement age of women and men, i.e. professors - 60 years old, professors - 65 years old? And the second thing is, the school funding system. You give examples of dynamics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] effective, good universities with mixed private-public capital. When will the time come in Poland to change and the best private universities will be included in the system of financing higher education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u147	Mr Ryszard Terlecki, Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you a question which, I think, raises the greatest concerns and controversy, including in my party. I wanted to ask you about guarantees for small and medium-sized universities that it will not be so in October, not in the perspective of the year, but in the perspective of a few years they will be marginalized and will lose their position in those places where they operate. This is, I think, an important problem. He may not be concerned with protests that are taking place, but it is important to convince the public that this reform will not cause dangerous situations in the regions and will not disrupt our sustainable development agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u149	Thank you. And the last question before the vote will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. And the other questions will be after the break and part of the votes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u150	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Members of the United Right have issued a number of rum-dub here for the Prime Minister. However, Prime Minister, the truth is that a simple question must be asked: Where is the funding? Where are the extra funds for education, for science, for college, for higher education? Because without additional funds, these changes are like mixing a glass. You expect this tea to be sweeter than mixing, but you need to add sugar to make anything work. And that's how it is in this case. These changes are not followed by funds, and it is therefore difficult to expect this to change anything. If we look at examples of other countries, it is clear that the increase in spending on science increases the quality of this whole sphere of public life. It's not here, so you probably shouldn't expect these changes for the better either. Secondly, the financing of science in non-public universities. Prime Minister, if we want to increase quality, we must, however, introduce a certain element of competition. This is not visible here, so the question is: When will non-public universities be implemented in this system? Another thing, smaller centers. With these changes, you can kill those smaller centres that are an impulse for local economies. This, of course, is related to the categorization of the university. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bring us here and lay down the rules on which this categorization will be carried out, because, in other words, half a joke, if you eliminate these smaller and medium-sized centres, then the Prime Minister will have nowhere to drive, and I know that you are driving around these smaller centres, and secondly, our local little homelands will lose those universities, which are an impulse for all kinds of development. Therefore, please answer this question, how will it be with the categorization of the university, and lay down specific rules for us here on the speaker...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u151	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u152	...what they will be in force in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u153	...sir, for the question. I'm declaring a time-out. 13.30. [[One and a half minutes, Marshal.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 29 hours 13 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission proposal for a law amending the electoral code law and some other laws. I would like to inform the High House that, in the discussion on this point, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. I would also like to inform you that the rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, has sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws for consideration. Questions are raised by Members. Member Jacek Protas, Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In January, in a reckless and scandalous manner, you trashed the electoral code, giving rise to a mess in the preparation of local elections and subsequent elections. Today, when the State Election Commission and the National Election Office announced that they were unable to prepare for the fall elections, you raise the volume, you propose further amendments and amendments to the Code. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club was ready to talk about these changes, was ready to prepare and propose amendments to this amendment, but after Mr Schreiber's scandalous speech on behalf of the PiS Club, we found that we would not be taking part in this huckle which you are proposing that all responsibility for how these elections will be prepared and how they will be conducted falls on you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will therefore support the motion to reject the bill at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u155	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, amendments to electoral law may be made at least 6 months before the election date. This change you are proposing is simply unconstitutional. [[It's not like there's a deadline yet. There's no deadline.]] I am aware that the National Election Commission is sending begging requests to revise the electoral code, because what was adopted in January this year is simply a legal bubble. But that's exactly what you knew, because that's exactly what we were talking about. We have been paying attention to all the elements that are being changed today. Unfortunately, you did not want to listen then, you were convinced that your proposal prepared by little Kazia was the only and optimal one. However, I have one fundamental question: Why do you not allow the work of the Regional Election Commissions to be recorded when referring to the GDPR? Do you really want to cover up the evidence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] discussing possible cases, have the elections been properly held? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u157	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Club Kukiz'15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Club Kukiz'15 took a very active part in the work on this bill. A lot of those ideas you tried to push didn't appeal to us, but the webcams were one of those ideas we've been opting for from the very beginning. At the same time, we said in the debate that you would not make it. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, as I said, having this subject. I remember your cynical smiles and shouts: Don't worry, we'll make it. We're saying right now: I'm checking. If you can make it, it's consistent. Then do it. Club Kukiz'15 will be against these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u159	Thank you. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of Law and Justice. Do you remember the bill you brought to the Sejm in November 2017? You've made 260 amendments to it. And what's left of it at the end of the legislative process? Not much, not much. And from what's left, you are removing your flagship project on recording the electoral process, only that you forgot that these regulations are also included in the 2018 Local Government Act. Is this the way to conduct the legislative process? Today, you're left to make a good face for the wrong game. It's so embarrassing. And it's a shame for local governments. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u161	These comments and questions will be addressed on behalf of the applicants by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the six-month deadline for amendments to the electoral code before the election date, it concerns major changes, systemic changes... [[Voice from the Board of Appeals.]] ...e.g. changes in monomandate circles to multi-ndat. [[Where does it say that?]] These changes aren't here. What was proposed at the request of the State Election Commission, these changes in the letter dated 4 June, are technical changes. They concern, first, the waiver of the day-to-day transmission from the electoral premises as new provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act have entered into force since 25 May this year and the EU Directive of 27 April 2016 fully applies. The issue of the EU directive at the time of the procedure of this law has not been raised by anybody, because it has not yet been in force with us, but it has been in force since 25 May. [[But she was famous.]] That is why your General Data Protection Officer pointed this out in a letter of 18 May addressed to the State Election Commission. As regards the other cases which are covered by this amendment, this is merely to shorten the procedure for challenging the resolutions of the State Election Commission and the provisions of the electoral commissioners, where there is a three-day deadline, and the Supreme Administrative Court has a five-day time limit for examining the case in the composition of the three Judges and can do so in a sitting in secret. I think we should proceed with this bill. There is no breach of Article here, Mr Zgorzelski. 178 § Two constitutions that talk about bi-instantity, because here the bi-instantity is preserved. There is a resolution of the State Election Commission and there is an appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u163	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2610, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. 177 voted against - 211, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws for consideration. Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen, it's not over yet. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] That's right, there's an objection. Then we'll settle the objection. We are voting on this proposal. Who among you is in favour of the Commission's proposal to present a report within a time limit for consideration at this sitting, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 387 Members voted. 210 votes against - 177, no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 43 hours 13 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 3 and 4 of the agenda. This part of the questions will be started by Mrs Gabriel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform. Please ask me to ask you a question. I remind you, one and a half minutes. [[Your marshal, my name is Isabella. Are you sure about me?]] Isabella Leszczyn, Civic Platform. Absolutely, I read it anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Your Marshal, hustle!]] I wonder if a project that will be amended by 200 amendments...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u165	Madam, I will interrupt you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important project on higher education, so if someone is not interested in listening to questions and discussing at this point and has other activities, please leave the room, and if you are interested and want to listen, please stop talking because Mrs Isabella Leszczyn from the Civic Platform cannot ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u166	Thank you. I hope your marshal will charge me half a minute. Prime Minister, I wonder if the project, which will be amended by 200 amendments, is still the same project and whether it is implementing any vision of higher education and science in Poland at all, or whether it is that you have already given up on this vision of yours, but you must somehow come out of it with a face, so you agree to all the amendments of your political background. After all, it is no secret to anyone that the project in the first version did not receive the support of the Sejm majority - it was loudly outlined by Marshal Terlecki also just now from the Seym Chamber, and PiS Members speak quietly about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was heard very clearly during the work in the Parliamentary Committee, when the PiS Members behaved just like the Prime Minister when he voted on the laws that destroyed the independence of Polish judges. The PiS Members were just as much as the Prime Minister voted in favour of this bill, but they were not happy, Prime Minister. So I wonder if it isn't just a coincidence that this law is implementing this model, which PiS hates, polarizing and diffusion. He was just talking about it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u167	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u168	...the Vice Marshal again. Isn't it true that the Prime Minister brings some Trojan horse into the PiS, only that the PiS will only find out when the bill starts working?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u169	Time is already over 1 minute. Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u170	Your marshal, thank you, but I think you've taken some time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u171	Then finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u172	Prime Minister! Still autonomy, a very important issue. As far as the autonomy of universities is concerned, this law strengthens the autonomy of universities as well as the laws on the Supreme Court, the National Courts and the General Courts strengthen the autonomy and division of power in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u173	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister questioned my reasoning about autonomy, so let me say something I haven't said yet. First, let me remind you - this is part of what I was talking about - when we are talking about what is and what is not autonomy, a definition. Autonomy is the right of the collective to rule on their own matters, especially internal matters. I don't think we're questioning that. So if an outsider decides on important matters of this collectiveity, that is against. And now the council is supposed to be an organ of the university, but most of it - I am talking about the state of today, not about the state after the amendments - have outsiders, so it can actually happen when these people decide on very important matters at the university. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] And another case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish you good luck in terms of contact with your surroundings, and that's fine, but I question decision-making competence with most outsiders. I am not talking, I am not analyzing matters of a similar kind in Western European countries or elsewhere, but I will be happy to talk about it. I want to say that in some countries - I don't say in which countries - autonomy...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u175	Mr President, this is a question, not a speech, so we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u176	...isn't the most important thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u177	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I am already saying in advance that such a proposal will not be taken into account, so don't remind me. Please, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u178	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! As a simple philosopher - you wanted to define yourself in one of the conversations, that's why I'm talking about it - you have some distance to humanities and I fear that you as a minister will want to eliminate these humanities from our public life, from our cultural space, from our scientific space. Such directions as cultural studies or art history or library studies are very important areas that actually build our symbolic space, but above all they create humanistic axiology. This is extremely important. When Prof. Stanisław Pietraszko founded culture studies in Wroclaw in 1973, it was the direction that he was fighting against the system at that time, because he introduced authors such as Hjelmslev, Lévi-Strauss, Antonina Kłoskowska, who told us another paradigm of thinking. It was very important at the time. I have a question for you: will you, according to the records that are in the bill, have a one-man influence on which directions will be removed? Answer me that question. This is very important because we are afraid of such a situation that humanities will simply fall victim to a simple philosopher. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u179	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u180	Minister! In 2018, more than PLN 25 billion was allocated to higher education and science, and this is the most important source of funding for universities. In the following years, a systematic increase in public funding for universities is planned. This justifies the need for a real impact on the spending of public funds in universities. This objective is achieved in many countries, especially those with a high quality of education and governance in higher education, e.g. in Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, that the rector is elected by the academic community and serves as academic leader, and the chancellor appointed by the minister is responsible for the management. Are you familiar with such ideas, and what is your position on this matter? And has this law been discussed and discussed? I am asking because I believe that this would improve the rationality of public spending and compliance with the procedures involved. Thank you very much. I'm expecting an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u181	Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u182	Minister! High Izbo! In the first sentence, I would like to thank you, Minister, for the 2-year social and environmental consultation procedure on the proposed reform. I would like to remind you that the Polish Science Congress took a very wide bench of consultations through many academic centres, where this intellectual activity of the environment was extremely large, for which I also thank the environment. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you a question about regional universities and make a certain demise of the tension built by the opposition that they will be rolled up. [[It's Marshal Terlecki who's building the tension.]] It so happens that the Zielona Góra Agreement, the rector of the University of Zielona Góra, is the head of this agreement, consisting of twenty regional universities, points to the advantages of this reform proposal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister, to identify the elements that support regional universities in the context of sustainable development policy, the programme of the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u183	The last question on this item will be asked by Agnieszka Ścigaj, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have this question: will you support the draft amendment tabled by the Kukiz club15, which will bring us closer to the implementation of the article. 24 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? The amendment was tabled at the request of students of doctoral studies, persons with disabilities. The idea is to allow them to extend their doctoral studies by 2 years because during these studies they are often forced to undergo rehabilitation, continue the treatment process and sometimes the time needed to complete their doctoral studies is insufficient, the same time as for healthy people. Will you support this amendment? If not, what is the real reason not to allow doctoral students, disabled people, in such a way as to continue learning, given that this amendment also contains a record of the suspension of the doctoral scholarship, so it does not generate any costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u185	I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Müller for an answer to this question and earlier questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u186	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer, where possible, the questions collectively, because they appeared in the statements of many Members to a similar extent, and then move on to those individual questions that dealt with various more individual cases. First of all, it is quite strange for me that the Civic Platform addresses Eastern Poland with such concern, and for 8 years it forgot about voivodships in the east. [[We've always remembered, Minister, don't lie.]] Yes, the people of the East perfectly remember your concern for the construction and investment that took place there; they remember perfectly. [[Get to the point.]] [[Voice from the room: Eastern Poland are additional billions negotiated. What are you, 25% less...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the culture of Members of the Civic Platform is not very large. Okay, come on. When you introduced paid students in your previous term... [[How dare you!]] ...the concern about students at the time was also very great when you raised your hands to limit free studies in Poland. I'm sure the students were very happy at the time when you were doing it with Minister Kudrycka in charge. So much for reminding Members of what it looked like. I will now refer one at a time to your unfortunate accusations. As far as Eastern Poland is concerned, here several Members have asked about expenditure and growth. Lubelska University of Technology - almost 5% increase in grants this year. Impossible, isn't it? Maria Curie-Skłodowska University - also growth, Rzeszowski University - also growth. Do these figures confirm your thesis? After all, this is the supposedly wrong algorithm we've introduced, and the numbers are that these universities are gaining money. Not to mention, that special funds, in the amount of nearly PLN 1 billion, were directed from the National Centre for Research and Development. These are facts, hard numbers. As far as regional universities are concerned, there have been a lot of accusations here that are false. Perhaps some Members would like higher education to develop in this way. We want sustainable development and equal opportunities for universities, but on one condition - that they will want to improve the quality of scientific research and the quality of education, because the concern of all of us, the High House, is that universities in Poland should develop and not be stagnated. Besides, the representatives of the Parliament of Polish Students who support this law and are looking at you in advance probably feel the same way in this regard. With regard to regional universities and financial mechanisms, because this is an important concern that emerged today during the debate, first of all, the state-owned professional universities will have a separate financial algorithm, guaranteed funding. 35 state universities, vocational universities have a separate financial algorithm, they will be assessed separately, so they can develop in these very important smaller districts, because they have a very important role. This year 28 of these universities are gaining on the algorithm. In previous years, unfortunately, much less was gained by the financial algorithm that was previously in force. More facts, ladies and gentlemen. As far as regional universities are concerned, going further, large universities, research universities, they will be financed differently, and regional universities, these middle schools, otherwise, will have different rules in the financial algorithm. Of course, you do not want to talk about it, and we have repeatedly said that they will race in their groups so that they can use their strengths in developing research and the quality of education. For the first time after 1989, we devote a separate financial stream to the development of regional universities, from which research universities will be excluded. The largest 15 universities will be excluded from the special financial stream, because it was intended for regional universities to have guaranteed funding for development which they had not previously had. As regards the increase in spending on higher education and science, in the legislation that is currently in force, in the legislation that follows the Civic Platform, the increase in spending on higher education and science would amount to PLN 100 million each year. Such guarantee mechanisms have been left to us in succession in the Law on Higher Education and Science and in several other laws. Now this mechanism will on average increase the financial resources by PLN 1 billion, 700 million next year, in the following years up to 1300 million, not counting the additional funds that will appear in each budget law, which has been won in addition. Thus, for the first time, the financial growth mechanism is being introduced by us and not by the people of the opposition. That's another thing. With regard to the allegations of humanities and research in this area, for the first time humanities will be judged primarily in their own disciplines, alone and not between different departments. Departments are now very diverse, which makes it often compared e.g. social sciences with humanities. By force, it's hard to compare. publications from psychology with publications from pedagogy. Now each of these disciplines will be compared in their own disciplines. This will be fair comparison within scientific disciplines, not within different departments. What's that gonna do? Separate sources of funding for humanities. As for the doubts that arise, whether the Minister will be able to eliminate the course of his studies if he so wishes, because that is how it sounded in the statements of some Members - no, he will not have the opportunity to do so. The bill forbids him to do so. It can only close the course of study if the Polish Accreditation Board negatively evaluates such course of study or if there is no recruitment for two years. Only in situations like this. I will tell you more, we are expanding the autonomy of universities in the development of new courses of study, because universities that will have category A+, category A and category B+ will be able to establish without the Minister's consent the directions they like in these disciplines, even though they may not like it at some point. Well, that's real autonomy. We expand university autonomy in this area. With this move, I would like to move on to the question of the university system and to the amendments that we tabled as a parliamentary club at second reading, because this is very important. [[Are you the envoy?]] Yes, I am of Law and Justice, and I am proud of it, sir. As regards the notification of changes in matters relating to the choice of university authorities, with regard to university autonomy, firstly, the autonomy of the university in this law is increased. Mr Nykiel, former Rector, said that autonomy is an opportunity to decide for itself. Autonomy is not independence. Note that this is not the same. So what will it look like? The university board will mostly be able to consist of people from within. The entire university council will be elected by the Senate. One representative will be from the student council. In its entirety, the academic community chooses the university board. After these changes, the University Council will be able to comment on most of the things, but will not have a decisive opinion either on the strategy of the university or on the statute or on the choice of the rector. The Rector will elect a college of electors, i.e. a meeting elected in democratic elections from all academic groups. They will be able to submit candidates for the rector to the university board and other bodies indicated in the university statute, as it is now. Issues related to the statute of the university. It's a constitution for college. Who's adopting this charter? The Senate of the University. Who chooses the senate of the university? Academic community. What is the risk to university autonomy here? These are populist allegations, because the autonomy of the university in this area is extended. Some may be afraid of it, but we, as a government of law and justice, want to trust universities. Let them be realized in the manner in which the academic community considers it right in its autonomy. Further things to do with this bill. I would like to make it clear that if you vote against this law, you will deprive future generations of doctoral candidates for compulsory doctoral scholarships. The vote against this law is to block the universal scholarship system for future PhD students, for future elites of Polish science. That's one thing. Allow universities to continue to regulate their fees in the way they like to increase student fees and deceive students. This bill makes college fees... [[Colleges don't cheat students.]] Colleges don't cheat students? Then ask your college buddies or student council in Szczecin if this happens. [[You're the minister of science, and you say universities cheat students?]] Yeah, unfortunately, it happens that universities cheat students, which is why we're gonna block it. By voting against this law, you will continue to allow universities to raise their fees in an uncontrolled way. [[You're very young and confident.]] [[Don't judge who's gonna think. This is every man's business.]] I'm just saying what you'll be for if you vote against it. As regards retirement age, first, the retirement age is governed by general pension rules. We in the Law on Higher Education do not touch the Act on Pensions at all. The pension system, which applies to all citizens, i.e. the general pension system, is also in force in this law. That's one thing. Second thing. No one can force him to retire in accordance with the current rules, and that is not an option. Retiring is a right, not a duty. I can't imagine forcing anyone to retire in any way. The retirement age is classic, it is from a law that is universally applicable, in no way discriminates in this case the sexes. I will tell you more, the age of running for individual bodies at universities is for both sexes at the same level - 67 years. Therefore, there is no distinction between sexes in terms of functioning within the academy, within the university. Therefore, this claim also appears to be incorrect. As far as the issues of the president's competence are concerned, let me remind you that he is elected by the electoral college in democratic elections. If the academic community entrusts this function to a member of its academic community, I hope that it has confidence in it. This is how a joint academic is realized. State higher vocational schools. I have already mentioned the issue of the financial algorithm here, but I would just like to remind you that the Conference of Rectors of State Higher Professional Schools has explicitly supported this law. For two reasons - we have for them a separate financial stream and a dedicated stream of excellence for the good education of our students, and we are also raising the rank of these universities even from the point of view of naming, because they will now be called public professional universities, not vocational schools. It was often wrong. The environment of these professional universities has asked us to raise this rank on a semantic level despite all this. This is one of the things that goes to the university, to state vocational schools. As regards issues related to the powers to award degrees, they will depend on the scientific categories to be awarded on the basis of an evaluation of the scientific acquis. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three different kinds of criteria. The first criterion is purely scientific. We point out how publications look in a given discipline at a given university, i.e. it is a matter of publishing in magazines and publications. The second point is the question of cooperation with industry. This is particularly important in technical sciences. The question is whether there are certain numbers of patents, whether they cooperate with outside companies and what resources they obtain. And the third criterion, which is very important in terms of these allegations concerning humanities, concerns the socio-economic impact. If humanists, social sciences have a socio-economic impact on the activities they carry out, they will receive additional profits for this, because the scientific category translates into financial gains and thus will have the powers to award degrees. This is very important because this third criterion is particularly important for regional universities. They play an extremely important role in social and cultural matters. In the case of this third criterion they will be able to prove themselves. This third criterion in addition will be more important in social sciences and humanities. For social sciences and humanities too, we provide for a separate procedure, which has already been voted out in committee, an evaluation of scientific activities. It will also be an expert activity, and not only will it be an assessment on a parametric basis, i.e. merely quotibility or publication in specific magazines. So we are introducing an expert activity in the assessment of this acquis, and this is also an important thing from the point of view of the development of monographs and other scientific publications among humanists. As regards the allegation of public consultation and amendments, these amendments do not fundamentally change this proposal. They're opening up to the academic community. We presented the first draft law in September last year, in January we presented the next draft after the first round of amendments, in April we presented the next round of amendments. We have now tabled amendments at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, which were still due to the voice of the academic community, and now we are presenting their last round. If this is an objection to the method of consultation that within nine months we have made four tours of amendments to the bill, then I do not know what charge we would have been attacked if we had not taken these amendments into account? Because it's the opening-up of the academic community, these are the amendments that we're making that come out... [[Or Terletsky.]] ...from students', academic, doctoral, senior scientific and junior backgrounds. These environments are very diverse and these are the voices we take into account. As far as the opportunities ahead of us are concerned, the position of Poland in international rankings is such an opportunity, here you have also mentioned federations, federations of universities, which operate in many countries around the world. And one example. The University of Warsaw is now at 314th position in the Shanghai ranking. If he entered the Federation with the Warsaw Medical University he would be 100 places higher. This is the negligence that we have done over the last few years, because the academic community is spread out and we do not exploit the common potential of these universities. But I would point out that these are federations. These universities continue to become separate universities, but together they boast about their achievements in the international arena. This is also an opportunity for regional universities that can enter the federations, while maintaining the autonomy of individual universities, but thus gaining higher scientific categories, higher financial resources and greater powers to give degrees. This is an opportunity to develop potential in the regions. Finally, I would also like to talk about financial issues in the coming years. First of all, we have raised minimum salaries since January 2019, in particular assistants and assistants, which will increase by 30%, on average by PLN 800 as regards the minimum salary. Over the next 10 years, 47.5 billion PLN of additional funds will be added to the system and 3 billion PLN next year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for all universities in Poland for investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u187	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have not been asked questions, but I would like to tell you that all the amendments I have received and there are certainly amendments concerning the composition and powers of the university council, amendments concerning the evaluation of the scientific acquis and other issues that have been addressed here. I think we'll have a chance to vote on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u189	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading to the draft laws submitted in prints 2563 and 2564 respectively, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for reporting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century (prints No. 2555 and 2605). I will ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. The presidential project is included in print No 2555. Its first reading was held in the plenary room on 5 June 2018. This draft was addressed by the High Sejm to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs met on 6 June this year to review the bill at its meeting. At the committee meeting, you presented the draft on behalf of President Andrzej Duda to Minister Andrzej Dera. Several legislative amendments were tabled to this proposal, mainly concerning the article. 2 (2) 2, Article 3 (1) (a) 1, Article 3 (1) (a) 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers These legislative amendments were accepted by the members of the committee and then voted on the whole of the proposal. 14 members of the committee were in favour, no one was against, and no one abstained from voting, and therefore the Board of Administration and Home Affairs asks the High Sejm to adopt a bill on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u191	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u192	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted. We are very satisfied with the discussion that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The atmosphere of this discussion was completely different from that of the Sejm during its first reading. It is very good that at the committee meeting we did not hear such extreme voices rejecting the President's initiative. Indeed, the amendments, which she pointed out, which were first of all highlighted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, were adopted after the President's acceptance of them, the President's Chancellery. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs unanimously recommended the adoption of a draft law. What is important, during the committee's meeting, the Heraldic Commission made an interesting remark, because we also discussed the appearance of the medal. Everyone wants the medal to be simply beautiful, not only referring to the anniversary, but also beautiful, consistent with the tradition of Polish heraldics and Polish medals. It is very important that the circle of entities that can receive this distinction is broadly defined. On the other hand, we have expressed little concern about whether the President's Office will succeed as quickly as possible, because this is very important, i.e. in 2018, to carry out all these activities related to obtaining medals primarily in technical terms. Because it is extremely important that in the area of 11 November we can have such celebrations not only in Warsaw, but in various places where medals will be awarded to citizens, Poles, all who have served to preserve independence... I also think that the element of the discussion on who can receive the medal is exhausting the article. 2 point 2 point 4 according to which these may be all persons who contributed to regaining or strengthening the sovereignty of Poland. So as for this catalogue that was being discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, whether it was supposed to be more cultural or not. with the broadly understood security, internal security of the Polish state, I think that the recording of the article. 2 (2) Point 4 does the will of the Members who spoke during the discussion. As we realized during the discussion, the new Act on the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence directly refers - and this is written in the justification - to the National Cows of the Centuries of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. I will remind you that earlier the Sejm adopted such a law, so the issue of this medal is an integral part of that original law. Hence the time schedule for the award of the Medal of the Recovered Independence Centennial. As I said at the beginning, Law and Justice supports the proposed bill, along with the amendments that have been adopted as legislative amendments. We thank the President's Office once again, above all the President, for taking this extremely valuable initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u193	Thank you. I would ask Mr Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. Minister! We welcome the President's initiative to establish a medal that can be honoured by citizens who have earned their country well during 100 years of Polish independence. However, a real test for the President will be how and to whom this award will be given. We hope that the medal will not be awarded according to the political key. We hope that the award will be available to all who deserve it. The President will receive a tool to thank outstanding Poles on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, but this is a question of the President's honor, how he will use this tool and whether he will use this tool to unite Poles around the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, or this nomination policy will be such that unfortunately citizens will be divided again. But back to the committee report, I would like to say that indeed, as the President said, there was a rather interesting discussion at the committee meeting. One of the issues raised was the issue of the period during which the medal will be broadcast. The project provides that it can be granted in the years 2018 to 2021. This period is intended to allow for various celebrations related to regaining independence and forming borders of the Second Republic of Poland. And that's a very good assumption. On the other hand, in the case of Silesia, a mistake was made in my opinion in this law. It is worth recalling that in 1921 the plebiscite took place in Silesia and the Third Silesian Uprising broke out, which actually directly influenced the determination of the borders of the Silesian area, which was later granted to Poland, while Silesia was only joined to Poland a year later. On June 15, 1922, the intersocious committee called on Poland and Germany to take part in the disputed area and on June 17, Katowice left the French garrison. In fact, there was no Polish administration in Silesia until June 1922. Only on June 20, 1922, the Polish Army entered Silesia and then the border posts abandoned by the French were filled by the Silesian insurgents. Only after 20 June, the following cities were included by the Polish administration, the army entered them, the process of construction of the Polish administration continued, and the symbolic act of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia was signed in Katowice on 16 July 1922. We in Silesia celebrate of course the anniversary of the next Silesian uprisings, while we also celebrate solemnly all events connected with commemorating Silesia's connection to Poland just in 1922, especially since it was then, in 1922, during these celebrations that were publicly and often very beautifully thanked those people who contributed to it through their work, through participation in Silesian uprisings, but also work for Polish consciousness in Silesia and led to the fact that these uprisings could succeed and part of Upper Silesia was attached to Poland. Therefore, we make an amendment extending the duration of this award until 2022 so that the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence can actually be awarded during the celebrations which will commemorate the real events connected with the accession of Silesia to Poland, and these events will be commemorated in their century, i.e. in 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law establishing the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century. As I said before at my first reading, there is no doubt about the purpose of establishing a medal. This is an important anniversary, which should also be commemorated by a commemorative award, and this is the nature of the medal to be established. The justification in a very clear and exemplary way discusses the idea and emotional message of the appointed decoration. The preamble to the Act rightly states that it is to be honoured by the citizens of the Republic who have contributed to regaining and strengthening sovereignty, independence, cultural identity and material prosperity of the Republic. This is very important. Everyone has rights, but not everyone is worthy to receive this medal. At first reading, we pointed out that the President would have to take a special way, and in any case very rigorously approach who will be awarded this medal so as not to mark the people who are unworthy of this medal. In this context, it should also be recalled, since the idea of the current medal refers so clearly to the Medal of the Tenth Anniversary of Recovered Independence established in 1928, that the criterion for obtaining it was impeccable work for the Polish state and society during the first decade of independent Poland for at least 5 years, while the merits for the conquerors before 1918 were rejected, and could also, if they were anti-Polish or anti-state, disqualify the candidate for distinction. This parallel is connected with the fact that many people work for the Third Republic, but their involvement in the previous system was too great, so in our opinion they should not receive such a medal. If, then, the criterion was public service or civil service for at least 5 years, then today, similarly, this impeccable service is included in Article. 2 (2) Point 2 (1) should also be defined so that it is at least 10 years if it is not 15. We will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the changes that led to Poland regaining independence next year. The Kukiz Club15 believes that this bill deserves a party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u197	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u198	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence with its original form in the Second Republic is a grotesque attempt to continue the great freedom tradition. Established as a Medal of the Tenth Anniversary of Recovered Independence, it would constitute - as his inventor writes - an expression of gratitude to the citizens of the Republic of Poland for their contribution to strengthening the Polish state. The medal emphasizes the role in creating the welfare of Poland, while President Andrzej Duda has repeatedly given evidence of misunderstanding, failure to respect the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which is based on European values. He repeatedly broke the Constitution of the Republic of Poland... [[What are you talking about? Do you know what you're talking about at all?]] ...just weakening the state, undermining its systemic foundations. Zbigniew Herbert wrote in "The Power of Taste": "So aesthetics can be helpful in life/ you should not neglect learning about beauty/ Before we report the access you need to urgently examine/form architecture rhythms of drums and squeals/ colors official vile funeral ritual. In such a situation would the Medal of the Century of Recovered Independence be accepted by President Andrzej Duda: Ms Wanda Traczyk-Stawska, Maja Komorowska, Olga Tokarczuk, Maria Janion, Urszula Kozioł, Bożena Kowalska, Krystyna Miłobędzka, Krystyna Janda, Agnieszka Holland, Anna Dymna, Henryk Krzywonos, Barbara Engelking, Dorota Nieznalska... [[And a few million others.]] ... Lech Wałęsa, Adam Michnik, Władysław Frasyniuk, Fr. Adam Boniecki, Krystian Lupa, Sylvester Chęciński, Karol Modzelewski, Stefan Niesiołowski, Wiesław Myśliwski, Krzysztof Penderecki, Stanisław Radwan, Krzysztof Warlikowski, Prof. Adam Strzembosz, Marcin Świetlicki, Paweł Szymański, Adam Zagajewski, Krystian Zimerman or Julian Kornhauser? I ask radically, the experiences of recent years have led to the reversal of Polish democracy from values generally considered universal and free. Today, the challenge for Polish society is to regain open, democratic Poland. The faculty rules of the rehabilitated, authoritarian state of the PiS do not guarantee the right to creative and scientific freedom, freedom of speech and the rule of law, which is why the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, established by President Andrzej Duda, is a denial of the idea of freedom. He will polarize, divide even more and so divided, antagonized Polish society. Mr President, on the occasion of the century of independence, do not invent and award any medals and make no laws for the good of the Republic. [[Applause]] [[Don't speak again for the sake of the Republic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u199	And Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, who will present his position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u200	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats on the President's initiative to establish the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence. Unfortunately, we regret to say that this initiative is definitely late. This medal is meant to be an expression of homage, respect, and at the same time appreciation and gratitude for all those who, over the years, not only with weapons but also with work, contributed their hearts and minds to regain independence and laid the foundations for the development of their homeland. Graphics - white eagle, leaves of Lorenzo and oaks combine, but they really do combine. An instinct very noble and noble. Honoring people for their merits and making a special contribution to the development of the country is not only their merits, but above all the motive for following and a specific pattern of attitudes, attitudes of outstanding and valuable Poles and Poles. The anniversary of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence is a unique, special and unique occasion. We take this initiative, believing that every gesture, every step towards recognition of merit is a good gesture, a connecting gesture. At this point, we demand the President's support for our initiative to erase the disgraceful sentence of the Brest court against Wincent Witos, three times the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland, and other convicts. [[Applause]] From this point on, I ask the President to be particularly careful that this medal is indeed in the most worthy hands, bearing in mind the time of the upcoming election campaigns. Let this sentence reach the President of the Republic of Poland, but above all to all those who wish to use the office of President at all costs to promote only one political formation on various occasions. Even if the President of the Republic did not come to Parliament with this initiative, I assure you that Polish societies, especially the local community, know, remember and respect all those who have contributed and contributed to strengthening our independent homeland. Poland - Poles are a proud nation, but also thinking. The decisions to award this medal will be a test of credibility for you, Mr. President, and your camp. We hope that this medal, the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, will indeed bring together all Poles and contribute to strengthening our beloved homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u201	Thank you very much for presenting your position on behalf of your club. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? Yet, I see, Mr. Member. And that's where we close the list. Let's begin with the questions. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During our debates, we have not yet paid attention to yet another very important element of the whole issue. Of course, we are in favour of this in general, we believe that this is a very good initiative, we support it wholeheartedly, and a question arises in the mind. What can be the number of people awarded with this commemorative medal? This commemorative medal concerns a group of persons listed in the article. 2 (2) Two from the century. I understand that the oldest generations are gone, but it's still a few generations of people. Please note that more than 10 million members belonged to the "Solidarity" itself, but we still have various professional groups, scientists, actors, a wide range of people who are extremely well deserved and well recorded in the history of the country. Were there any calculations for the number of people who could [[♪ The bell ♪]] to receive this honorable distinction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice, will ask another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Let me ask you a question to the Minister, but first, thank you for the initiative - the President bowed down. And on the other hand, there's a request. Since I am the chairman of the parliamentary team on the celebration of the century of regaining independence, I would like to ask whether the operation of this law, initiative and medal honoring, is also linked and correlated with this 3-year programme, which is independent for the years 2017-202021. It would seem that it would be very sensible - this synergy of honoring the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence with this multi-annual programme of independent. At the same time, I have a request. I suggest to all the political forces that we do not compete and present this medal at the beginning of its creation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is for all citizens of the Republic who deserve it in the sense of working for an independent homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u205	Mr Pavel Papke, the Civic Platform, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act establishing the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence assumes that the medal is awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland either on his own initiative or at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Head of the Central Offices or Voivodeships, i.e. the award and award system has been applied. However, the intention of this law should be that representatives of different social and professional groups, regardless of their function, profession, place of residence or age, may feel that building a community of state and strengthening sovereignty is also their participation. Applications for a medal may be submitted by the President or by government bodies, not by ordinary citizens, foundations, non-governmental institutions or by social or professional organisations, who deal with people who fight for independence on a daily basis. Here's the question: Shouldn't this open application formula law apply? That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secondly, what arguments will support the award of the medal, and what will be the time limit for granting it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u207	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will opt for the extension of the circle of entitled persons, because it is mentioned about Polish citizens. I'm asking for Polonia. People living outside the borders very often, not of their own free will, deprived of citizenship, under this law will be harmed, and extremely often they fought, fought independence for Poland through various types of political interventions, through humanitarian aid, through economic aid. It seems to me that it would be extremely damaging if this circle were narrowed down and not to include those people who were almost expelled from Poland, they were still deprived of citizenship. Now that would be the third harm, that would be bad. I am opting, therefore I am applying for the extension of this group to persons of Polish origin who are deprived of Polish citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u209	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question similar to that of Mr Wozniak. We are indeed creating a new award with this law, and it will depend on the President's character - whether it will be very elite, awarded to a small group of people, or it will be a very common award, given to many in connection with the commemoration of independence. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you do not mention this and do not specify the nature of this award, so I ask the Minister to present to the High House what the assumptions of the President are and how widely this award will be awarded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u211	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please don't be surprised that Modern has a lot of doubts about this award, this medal, because the historical policy of Law and Justice has recently been limited to changing the history of Poland, embodimenting those people who do not fit the idea of Poland's history. Therefore, if the bill states that in the near future only the representatives of the Law and Justice will decide who has this award, receive this medal, we fear and do not want to allow the situation that those who will be awarded will return this medal. We are already dealing with such cases that the decorations given by President Andrzej Duda are being returned precisely because many people believe that President Andrzej Duda has, unfortunately, embezzled his constitution and is breaking it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u213	Mr Wojciech Szarama, the Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was moved to ask this question by the position of the Modern Club, Mr. The member representing the club has no doubts. He said he'd vote against it because he thinks this president shouldn't be giving any medals because he's gonna do it wrong. Of course, there is a full justification for this. Mr. Speaker! This is a speech, a presentation of a position, simply shameful, because this medal is to be given and established by the President of the Republic of Poland, who was elected in free democratic elections and whose mandate no one questions. Even you guys can't do it in a reasonable way. Which one of the previous presidents... I ask: Why none of the previous presidents - neither President Wałęsa nor President Kwasniewski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or recently President Komorowski - didn't set this award? [[Because there was no century, sir.]] It is not until this term of office that there are opportunities. So that here we express our appreciation and respect for the president and for the law firm, for Minister Andrzej Dera, who represents the President's Registry, for the establishment of this medal. Thank you again. [[Applause]] [[But it was hard to do it before, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u215	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence will be awarded by the President by those who deserved to preserve their independence. However, in the year of the century, we must remember especially those who have great credit for regaining independence. This person was undoubtedly Vincenty Witos, three times Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, I ask a specific question: In this particular year, will the President of the Republic of Poland agree to our initiative to erase this shameful sentence, which is still on Wincenty Witos and... [[And it's gonna stay.]] Yeah, I'm afraid so. However, I hope that the President, who is so concerned about those who perpetuate this independence, will not forget who has done so much for this independence, who has done so much for those, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who could then consolidate this independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u217	Mr Andrzej Dera will be the first to speak by the representative of the applicant State Secretary at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u218	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for your work on the committee, for the very good atmosphere for work, for the substantive discussion about this coin. I think that these amendments, which facilitate and improve the reading of this law, editorial, legislative, contribute as much as possible to this. Now I wanted to refer first to the club appearances. First it was expressed such anxiety, whether we as law firm will be able to realize this medal so that in 2018 it can be broadcast so that we can, in short, make it 11 November this year. I would like to inform you that if tomorrow there is a vote on this project, then the Senate will take care of it, in short, if in July we have the decision of the Polish Parliament to establish this medal, we are able to have this medal in such a quantity, because there are certain administrative procedures concerning the tender, etc., as I think, already in October have physical resources. Because you can't theoretically broadcast these medals. Of course, this will also be the time when you will be able to apply to the President for a broadcast. So I think we've been able to, in fact, since October or since November... Then the President's medal will be able to broadcast. And I would like to say, immediately explaining a few questions from your fellow Members, that the formula for broadcasting this medal is to be broad. This isn't supposed to be an elite medal that's going to get a few chosen. We go into the formula of rewarding many people deserved in Poland, so that it is not for individual people, for elites, only that they are distinguished people who put many hearts, their hearts, their free time, their passion, their professional work, in order that Poland... in building a national community. And it's supposed to be a broad award. Here I am counting - and I am also immediately explaining to you Members - that the fact that there are institutions that can be formally introduced does not mean that non-governmental organisations, different environments, cannot be the initiators of such events. If a voivode doesn't respond, a representative of the administration doesn't respond, then you can direct it to the President. We're gonna take care of these things. We are ready and there will certainly be no party, political criteria. It will be very important to describe, to describe the merits of these people well, because it is crucial that it is not dosed so that it is not single-handed, because then it will be difficult to refer to such applications. If it is actually stated there, who, what, how and how he did things important for Poland, for Poles, for our community, there is no obstacle to not giving such distinctions. Because their idea is that it will not take place in Warsaw. This is supposed to be happening in the region to show local authorities that do a lot of wonderful things. We're dating... Each of us works in the public sphere for many years and knows people who do nothing for any decorations, for any glory, but do, work because they love Poland. The point is to make this medal a huge souvenir and satisfaction for these people, that they are remembered, that they were lucky to live in 2018 and receive such a medal. And this is also a reference to a modern representative who, in a very unpleasant and unworthy way, I would say, referred to this initiative. Because what you did was so classic sharing Poles, putting on who gets and who doesn't. It's just something that shouldn't... [[But he's gone, Minister. He's gone because he's not interested.]] ...in the Polish Parliament to have a place, because it is not a medal to share Poles, it is a thank you The Republic of Poland for citizens who contributed to building, because we are today in the place where we are. It's not supposed to be anything in the spirit you were talking about here. But I also want to say that it's not like someone's gonna get that medal. Because there was also an assumption that if someone doesn't want it, they wouldn't get it. He won't ask. There won't be a motion, there won't be a decoration. It's obvious to me. Because there was such an insinuation that there were, there were names mentioned. If someone doesn't want to receive this medal, of course they won't. But I assure you that many thousands of Poles who will receive this award will be proud that Poland remembered them, that the Republic gave them this medal for their merits. I will now refer to a few things and to the amendment made by the representatives of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. This is a very important question... Someone who knows history knows exactly what was going on. I just want to say what was the intention of giving this medal and why we referred to this time period, i.e. the years 2018 and 2021. We have a law which the Polish Parliament adopted on 11 May 2017, on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland and there in art. 2 it is clearly said that the committee in these years - still 2017 - entered this period because it was written last year, we do not withdraw it anymore, we are not able to reverse the time, but we will be broadcasting this medal since 2018. - it is in this time frame that it carries out tasks aimed at commemorating and solemnly celebrating events and persons connected with regaining and consolidating independence by the Republic of Poland. This is also an automatic answer to Mr Kurzepa's question, which is exactly what he asked. It's correlated with this bill, so it's this time interval. I can assure Mr Wójcik that all those who today... Because in fact there are no living insurgents anymore, that is unfortunately the passage of time, we are no longer able to honor them, but this is the moment when we will be able to award a medal to those who care about graves, for example, who care about the Museum of Silesian Uprisings and other such things, but it will not be connected with the historical fact itself. That's exactly what you said happened in 1922... But we will refer to the Third Silesian Uprising. It will be an opportunity to honor those people who remember that Silesia fought to be in Poland, and those people who by their work, their commitment, their passion today remind about these historical events, Silesia, Silesia and work for them. Then you can just honor them. So if, Mr President, that law is amended, it will be changed without problem, but I would not like to introduce such a situation that there is a law on national celebrations and it will have a narrower scope than the law on this award at the moment. That is why I personally believe that we should keep this in the time frame that is in this bill, and that is why we have referred to it in this way. But I think that during the committee meeting we will be discussing this further in detail. Now yes, in answer to Mr Papke: this is modelled. It's checked because that's how decorations work. We have a little bit of these decorations in Poland. Most of them are married for many years, and no one is looking at who has a party, a political past, just a fact. The conclusions come out of the municipalities, through the voivodships and for this reason, please note that there will be no blockades. There's one thing that really needs to be watched. This is the quality of the justification, because it is important to write, for what this medal is to be given, what the merit of this person is in relation to those criteria that are in the bill. They are wide, but in the proposal you will have to refer to these broad points just so that you don't narrow it down so you don't block that someone there can, someone can't. It's also about them being the most deserved people, the ones who haven't received any other medal yet, and here's the possibility, that's the opportunity. The criteria are much more mild compared to other State decorations, because we have bachelor crosses for special merits for Poland, then we have crosses for merit, and here we have a commemorative medal, which means he fills a slightly different space. The deadline for broadcasting will be, as the Act says, by 2021 as regards the formal basis for awarding these awards. With regard to the answer to Mrs Fabisiak's question, there were also a few such questions: that is only for the living. That is also what Mr Sosnowski asked. [[That's not what I asked.]] I know, because you asked about this issue, which is not part of this law, but I also want to explain to you Members that only people living and only Polish citizens can receive a medal. It is difficult at this point to extend it to those who feel like Poles and so on. This concerns Poles living in Poland. We want to honor those people who work for Poland here in Poland, which does not mean that we exclude those who have merit for development and support Poland in a beautiful way. There are other ways to reward or reward, to honor such persons. It is realized throughout the duration of our Republic of Poland and each of the presidents previously gave such decorations. On the other hand, this medal will only be awarded to Polish citizens who have a Polish passport. They can stay abroad, they can live there, but they have this citizenship. These are the criteria that we have adopted for this just to fit into some kind of framework. That's the assumption. As for these people most deserved for our independence, it will be the initiative of the President to give the Order of the Eagle to the White Fathers of independence, who have not yet been awarded. There's an announcement from the president, he's already mentioned it. This is being prepared, and I think we will soon know the names of those who are already dead today, who have had a huge impact on the fact that we have seen the century of our independence. They are monumental characters, but as I speak, there will be information on how the White Eagle Order's Chapter will end. Then the names of these people will be made public. Because it turned out that a number of such people did not receive this most important, highest state award and there is no better opportunity than the century of regained independence to honor these people, even posthumously, in this way. So that's the intention. And the question is... If this is to be by law, the state as a club has a legislative initiative and you can always submit it, because it is a question of what form it would be in. It is important to consider in what legal form to do what you have proposed here. It is therefore worth considering this, because it is indeed a problem that is in our history, but I do not know whether the form of the bill is the best possible thing here, because there are no other possibilities for the President to go back. He can't apply the law of grace here either, because he's already dead. It is therefore important to consider in what form, Mr President. This is because what you are talking about is important and important, but you also need to know in what form Do it. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u219	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform, corrigendum. As for whose speech, Madam Member? [[Minister.]] Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Work has begun on the bill, on a valuable, good bill, according to which a lot of people can be honored, but there would be great injustice if we deprived these people of... And that can be written, because art. 2 (2) 2 talks about people who strengthen their relationship with Poles abroad. This is one of the conditions that these people are fulfilling. This can be extended even to people who have been deprived of citizenship, because they are not some Polish friends, they are Poles whose Polish state deprived their citizenship. It would really be a great injustice if those who live abroad have Polish citizenship, could get this honor, and those who have been deprived of citizenship - no. That would be unfair. Just think about the possibility... [[I mean, they can ask for a gift.]] ...amending this record and extending the catalogue of persons entitled to receive this medal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u221	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Since during the second time... Ah, I am so sorry, Mr rapporteur. Yes, you're welcome. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers, mainly the representatives of the clubs, who respond positively to the President's initiative to establish the Medal of the Recovered Independence Century. I would also like to assure Mr Mark Wójcik that the amendment tabled will be examined at the next committee meeting today. And now just, perhaps no longer within the limits of the rapporteur's words, I will say so from myself. I listened with great disgust to Mr Mieszkowski's speech on behalf of the Modern Club. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible, using immunity, to go out to the speaker of the High House and to pour a wash into the majesty of the President of the Republic, especially in the context of the century of regaining independence, in the context of establishing this commemorative medal for Poles deserved during the period of independence. I hope that those who have misspelled themselves in the history of Poland, also those who have done various wrong actions for low reasons, e.g. The use of porn actors etc., will not, I hope, receive such decorations. I wish all people, including Poland, that the list of those awarded with this Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence - Minister, I am speaking to you as the representative of the President - be as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u223	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the superior of the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue (prints No 2281 and 2572). I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u224	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report of the committee on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions of social dialogue, print No 2281. On 27 February 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs to the first reading. On 6 and 7 June 2018, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy carried out its first reading and examined the project. The committee's report is in print 2572. The proposal submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland to amend the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue is the result of an evaluation of the functioning of the provisions of the Act of 24 July 2015 on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, and then presented to the President of the Republic of Poland a recommendation for changes. The draft amendment contains proposals to improve social dialogue at both national and regional level. In particular, provision should be made for: to extend to draft strategies and plans for a catalogue of documents to be consulted by the social side of the Council; to grant the opportunity to speak to the Minister responsible for affairs. public finances with a request for a general interpretation on the application of tax law; allowing the adoption of resolutions of the party of employees and employers of the council by means of a correspondence vote; participation in the work of the council, with an advisory voice, a representative of the chief labour inspector; clarification of the competences of the voivodship councils for social dialogue and increased resources for the functioning of the voivodship councils for social dialogue. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed regulation will have a positive impact on social and economic relations due to the effect of improving the functioning of the forum for tripartite cooperation and dialogue between the workers' side, the employers' side and the government side of the Council of Social Dialogue, and at regional level the regional social dialogue board. In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u225	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Janusz Śniadek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. Manuel Barroso, the first President of the European Commission, at the beginning of his term in 2004, when he met at the inauguration of his term of office, among others. with the European Confederation of Free Trade Unions, he said that social dialogue is the foundation on which the whole building of the European Union was built. I quote these words because they show the fundamental difference between how social dialogue is treated in Europe, and how it is - unfortunately otherwise - in Poland. The Tripartite Commission - social dialogue in this regulated formula draws its origins in Poland from the 1993 State Enterprise Pact. In Poland, the concept of social dialogue is often confused and applied interchangeably with civil dialogue. These are two completely different concepts. As far as social dialogue is concerned, here are trade unions, employers' organisations and, often, government parties. Until 2001, until July, this social dialogue in the Tripartite Commission was based on the principles set out in the Council of Ministers Regulation. Only in July 2001 did the Act on the Tripartite Commission appear. She was very lame, too. She functioned differently. In fact, it was such a very crisis moment in December 2008, when Prime Minister Donald Tusk at the meeting of the Bureau of the Tripartite Commission in the face of a crisis in Europe, in America, was asked mainly by employers, what we are doing in Poland, to answer... he was not supposed to answer, he just answered, I heard it with my own ears: If you don't know what to do, it's best not to do anything. Desperate employers have asked us, the unions, to enter into bilateral negotiations. The result was so-called. The anti-crisis package, which the government, Prime Minister Tusk, has committed to employers, is taking everything or nothing. Such declarations were made publicly in front of the dialogue centre. Unfortunately, this was not kept, and soon it began to break. It showed how fragile and bad it was, it showed that not only regulation but, above all, good will of the parties is needed for dialogue. I think that such a complete breakdown of social dialogue in Poland was the pushing up of the retirement age against the attitude of trade unions, contrary to social protests. That situation practically led to social dialogue and to the cessation, cessation of activities by the Tripartite Commission for Economic and Social Affairs. For almost two years, we had a situation where it did not actually function, but it was not a waste of time, because at the time, at the initiative of "Solidarity," the social partners - representative trade union organisations and employers - worked together, negotiated a new bill on the Council of Social Dialogue and this project - in the previous term, because in July 2015, 24 July - was adopted and adopted. The actual start and resumption of work in the Social Dialogue Council has already taken place during this term of office. Today we can actually say that social dialogue in Poland has been resurrected. These most important features, the provisions of this new law are: rotating leadership in the Council - at the moment not only the Minister of Labour, possibly the Prime Minister, but also, rotationally, individual social partners have written down this lead; problem teams - there are dozens of problem teams; better empowerment and better functioning of voivodship social dialogue councils. It also provides that within 24 months of the date of entry into force of the Social Dialogue Council Act, the partners shall review the provisions of the Act and, when assessing its functioning, propose amendments. That's what happened. The social partners asked the President of the Republic of Poland to be the father of this law. Draft amendments to the Act based on proposals submitted by the Social Dialogue Council were prepared by the President of the Republic of Poland. Law and Justice fully supports this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will vote in favour of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue. The draft is contained in print No 2281, while the report is contained in print No 2572. High Izbo! A few years ago, representative trade union organisations recognised that social dialogue needed redefining and substantial redevelopment. At the same time, they expressed their desire to take greater responsibility for the creation of the law and to create the conditions necessary for the proper functioning of the State. The Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue of 24 July 2015 adopted in the previous term of office of the Sejm constitutes a new quality. On the one hand, it ensures closer cooperation between the social partners and the government or parliament, and on the other, it creates the possibility of greater participation in ensuring peace or social peace and sustainable development of the country and society. The 2015 Act provides that within 24 months of the date of entry into force of the Act, the Council of Social Dialogue will assess the functioning of the rules and propose amendments to increase the organisational autonomy of the Board. Therefore, this amendment is, in a sense, an analysis of the current rules in force. The proposed changes consist primarily of broadening the list of competences of the board and the sides of employees and employers, as well as strengthening the organisation of the board. The amendment also includes clarification and procedural proposals for voivodship councils for social dialogue. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has adopted two amendments to the article. 1. The first harmonisation of the consultation procedure which applies to the establishment of the draft State budget. Following the emergence of a new employers' organisation, an amendment was also adopted which concerns the number of parties. The agreed presidential project is a consensus adopted, among others. by the social partners. This was emphasised by all parties in committee work. I would also like to point out that the agreement was reached during the work of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. All agreed that the amendment would affect the smoother functioning of the Social Dialogue Council at both national and voivodship level. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the solutions presented in the presidential draft amendment to the Act on the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions of social dialogue, especially since this is a continuation of the solutions developed in the previous term of the Sejm, and the proposed changes were created by consensus of all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u229	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 regarding the proposed presidential law, the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions of social dialogue from print no. 2281. I am pleased that the President has taken this initiative, has taken the patronage of something that is so important - the social dialogue. The Social Dialogue Council - I don't think anyone has any doubts - this is a place that is very much needed. In the current socio-political situation, especially this political situation, we have a problem with dialogue. At this point, in Parliament, we also have a very often problem - dialogue is not substantive and it is only political, so it is good that there is such a place, it is good that the President is patronising this place, it is good that this law has appeared and that there may be further laws that will teach us or bring us closer to a good dialogue for good solutions in Poland. Employers, employees and the government, there is no doubt that this is really one group that builds, builds Poland, builds the Polish economy. I hope that this time will end - it may end - in which employers and employees were placed on two sides of the barricade, in which stereotypes, often fueled for political purposes, became the reason that these two environments were shared. They were told about legal solutions, very often showing that each of these legal solutions is in the interest of one of them. It is time to create a law in Poland that will bring together these interests, and this will only be possible through dialogue, maybe a long, maybe difficult, but dialogue. So I am pleased that such initiatives arise. I hope that, also by using these legal solutions, that this dialogue board will bring forward projects, will actually give an opinion on government projects, but it will also initiate good projects and parliamentary debates itself, and that by looking at such a way of dialogue, we will learn to talk about problems and not just use rhetoric to fight politically. There are very good solutions that talk about the opinion of the financial plan, the multiannual financial plan, because it is precisely the long-term financial plan that is a long-term policy, that is what we should work on in accordance with, because whether it be this government or the next government, these solutions will affect future generations. And this shouldn't be a political fight, this should be a concern for the future, what's going to happen to our children, our grandchildren, because that's the right we're going to create for them. Of course, we are also pleased that this initiative strengthens this good dialogue also at regional level, because not only at government level, but also in regions we need to talk about these solutions. And with all the responsibility, and even, I would say with joy, we will support this project because we think it may be a small step, but it is a step that will make this social dialogue an example of parliamentary dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u231	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u232	Thank you. Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! This is an exceptional bill because it was really developed in the context of social dialogue. And this is an example of how you can work on bill projects, you can work on a good law, on the basis that all stakeholders are invited to talk, they are heard, and the result is a compromise, an agreement. It's not like one scene loses, the other wins, because that's not the point of legislation. It's about making a good law. All actors are heard and meet in the middle to create something that goes forward, to meet expectations. And that is a lesson and a lesson for all of us, especially for the state that is now in power. That's how you work. Take advantage of these good practices. This bill introduces good solutions. Firstly, it extends the catalogue of documents that must be consulted with the Social Dialogue Council, as referred to in Article. 5th Bill. This also applies to draft programmes strategies and other government documents relating to the Council of Ministers' action plans. Secondly, it introduces solutions that will enable the President of the Council to make a request to the Sejm and the Senate to provide information on matters of major importance in the area covered by the activities of the Social Dialogue Council. Third, Art. 14b will enable both the workers' and employers' side to adopt a resolution on the presentation by the chairman of the Council of Dialogue to the Minister responsible for Finance, requesting the general interpretation referred to in the Tax Order. This will be particularly important for employers, and thus for workers, because we are dealing with different, often divergent tax interpretations. We consider these solutions to be the most important in this bill, but also - as I said at the beginning - the procedure itself is important, the opportunity to listen to dialogue is important. That's how you make a good law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u234	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue, prints No 2281 and 2572. Ladies and gentlemen! With great attention and special concern as the Polish People's Party we will look and co-create any amendments concerning the Council of Social Dialogue, because it was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz who, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, laid the foundations for this fine body. The solutions contained in the draft law can be divided into three categories. The first included proposals to increase the list of competences of the board and the sides of employees and employers, and the second included changes to strengthen organisationally the board, while the third included clarification and procedural proposals for the voivodship social dialogue councils. Special attention should be paid to the fact that in the draft article. 1 In Amendment 1, it is proposed to extend the competence of the Council and its parties to evaluate draft strategies, draft programmes and drafts of other government documents concerning the planned activities of the Council of Ministers, prepared by the Council of Ministers and its members, on matters referred to in Article. 1. This solution will provide the parties to the Council with an impact on the creation of documents on the tasks carried out by the Council, in particular on the conditions for socio-economic development, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Polish economy and social cohesion, the implementation of the principle of participation and social solidarity in employment relations, and the improvement of the quality of formulation and implementation of policies and socio-economic strategies. Ladies and gentlemen! It sounds extremely beautiful, but the point is that just as a nice weather bill cannot be written down, neither can any decree be written down of good will, will of dialogue. As the name suggests, the dialogue board should deal with dialogue. This cannot be a monologue of rulers. We are concerned about the trend that is taking place in the Polish Sejm. The dialogue was replaced here by a monologue. The lack of consultation on legislation has become the norm. And if there is already a dialogue, it is an apparent dialogue. An example here, ladies and gentlemen, is the situation of the parents of the disabled. No dialogue in the Sejm, and at the centre of the dialogue - manipulation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, as you might call it, a situation in which representatives of people with disabilities the day after fake talks with the government are holding a press conference and need to straighten out the message that the government has given journalists. Ladies and gentlemen! We will not be against proposals that will contribute to social dialogue, but there is one thing that remains: this dialogue must be a genuine and universal dialogue. This is a huge challenge for rulers who cannot be included in any law. The Polish People's Party Club will support the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u235	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. And as the first question asked by Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question. [[Maybe one and a half.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u236	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was involved in the work on the State Enterprise Pact during the transformation. It was from these negotiations that the need for a Tripartite Commission and the organisation of a permanent social dialogue in Poland arose. I piloted work on the Tripartite Commission Act in 2001 during the third term. Unfortunately, the matter of this committee and social dialogue fell because of the wrong faith of the then Prime Minister Tusk. I have a question for the Minister. I'm going to read here a fragment that's been included in Amendment 9. [[You're not gonna make it.]] Information on the activities of the Council referred to in paragraph. 3 shall be made public. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think that public knowledge of the events of the Council meetings will help to consolidate social dialogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u237	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u238	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important bill that we owe to President Bronisław Komorowski, Prime Minister Ewie Kopacz and Minister Kosiniak-Kamysz. She will simply be updated to improve it, but on the one hand there are legal declarations, on the other hand there is practice. It is not possible to implement this law when there are drafts of laws on ministerial desks, and then they are reported as parliamentary. There is no room to discuss these acts before they are sent to the Sejm. Also important is the practice which occurs in companies of the State Treasury, in state enterprises. Recently, she was fired from work by Monika Żelazik, a stewardess with 25 years internship, head of the Board and Air Staff Trade Union because she claimed workers' rights. This is how the PiS government implements these issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a great disgrace, it should be changed. Mrs. Ironman should get back to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The draft amendment of the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue and other institutions of social dialogue refers to the competence of the voivodship councils on social dialogue, referring to the right to express opinions on the draft strategies for the development of the voivodship and programmes on the tasks of trade unions and of course employers' organisations. The current law entered into force on 24 July 2015. It provides that the Council will evaluate it within 24 months of its entry into force. Here's my question: What are the conclusions of this assessment? Is the amendment the result? Are all sides of society satisfied with its effects? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Andrzej Dera, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u242	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you very much for working on this amendment. First of all, I would like to thank the Social Dialogue Council because the whole amendment was developed at many meetings of the Social Dialogue Council. There was a will for dialogue. The result of this will is this amendment. I would like to make it clear that this project is based on the full consensus of all sides of social dialogue. What you presented here was unanimously accepted by the government, by the employers' side and by the union organisations. As you have noted, this is how the law should be made. This law was created because it was government's will. And here I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for his substantial contribution and help with this amendment, the employers' side for a very constructive approach, as well as the trade union side. It is not that this project did not cause controversy in the Council of Social Dialogue. It was the ability to give up some of your goals for a common purpose. We've been able to work it out. That's the effect of the job. I would also like to thank you very much for your work at the President's office. This work was then largely based on what was developed in the Council of Social Dialogue. I would like to thank the representatives of the Law and Government Bureau, who supported this good bill. I would like to thank the committee for its very substantive approach to this amendment, for all the votes saying that it is a good project, needed to support the Social Dialogue Council. And now I would like to answer the questions that have been asked and also thank all the representatives of all the clubs for supporting this amendment, because in fact all the clubs supported this project. I would like to answer the questions that have been asked about this law, of course. Public information, according to the Social Dialogue Council, will help social dialogue, because what we have here is that it will be presented in the Polish Parliament. We thought that information about how the dialogue is presented, how it is being implemented, would be the subject of a public debate in the Polish Parliament, because this is a place where dialogue should be discussed, where it should be commented, where the consequences of non- dialogue are felt. And this is where these presentations will be, these activity reports. Since we have a rotating Presidency, we wanted to ensure that any of those who will chair the rotating Council of Social Dialogue could submit such information regardless of that - because they will - because this reporting period is different here, in order to find the possibility for each conductor to submit such a report and report of the year in question, so that it can be introduced here. I will answer Mr Papke's question again. What are the conclusions? Please note that there was a record there to carry out such a revision of the functioning of this law within two years, because that is how it was written then. I would like to inform you that this has been maintained. True, it was an incidental provision, because within two years it is to be verified how it works, how to improve, how to improve the functioning of the Social Dialogue Council. But also in a unanimous way, the representatives of the Social Dialogue Council agreed that they wanted this provision to continue so as not to close the way for them, so that they would not wait for anybody to work on the amendment of the law, but that the Council would set itself another two-year period to think about which way this dialogue should go, because there are a number of very interesting ideas. But everyone said they still needed time, because this dialogue is also shaping, this dialogue is developing, so there is scope to improve, improve this dialogue for the future. All parties here have declared that they already want to work today on how and in which direction this formal and informal social dialogue is to go in the future. So it's left behind. That's what we need. This is the answer, Mr President, to what the conclusions are. Well, all parties thought that this provision was important, crucial. All parties want to work further on the development of social dialogue in Poland. As many representatives have said here, the key to social dialogue is will. Today we should be delighted that the will is on the side of the Polish government, that the will to conduct this dialogue is on the side of representatives of employers' organisations and all trade unions. I wanted to thank you very much for this will. This amendment is the result of dialogue and unanimity in the Council of Social Dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws (prints No 1868 and 2616). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and certain other laws, prints Nos 1868 and 2616. The purpose of the presentation, as the President points out, is above all to extend the scope of the subject matter and the law in question, to improve the regulation of the law on the identification of non-governmental organisations which provide legal assistance - further - to enable these organisations to provide free civic guidance and to link free legal assistance and free civic advice with legal assistance provided at the stage of judicial proceedings. The Sejm at its 49th meeting of 11 October 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. The Commission's meetings on the project were held on 25 October and 7 June 2018. An extraordinary subcommittee was established for the detailed examination of the project, which I had the privilege of chairing. The subcommittee was held on 9 November 2017 and 30 May 2018. Written opinions for the project were presented by: the Union of Polish Metropolitans, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the Supreme Bar Council, the Attorney General, as well as the Foundation of University Legal Advice. The meetings of the committee and subcommittee were attended by representatives of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland with the Minister of Surówka-Pasek, officials of the Ministry of Justice with Minister Marcin Warchoł, employees of the Ministry of Family, representatives of the National Council of the Judicial Council, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, as well as numerous representatives of social organizations, in particular the Foundation of University Legal Advices, the Association of Social Information Centres - CIS, the Association of OVUM, the Association of Self-Governmental Social Assistance Centres, the Foundation of Academia Iuris and the Office of Civil Advice. At the subcommittee meetings and then the committees, all the regulations were systematically discussed. A number of substantive amendments, including two such amendments, were adopted at the last committee meeting. As part of the amendments tabled - this, I think, should be highlighted in particular - a catalogue of entities entitled to receive free legal assistance, mediation and free advice has been opened. Corrective amendments and legislative amendments have been tabled. There were a lot of them. 12 Members voted in favour of the bill at the joint committee meeting last week, 3 against, 6 abstentions. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after considering the draft law, invite the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law, as proposed in the report of the Committee on Printing No 2616. I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation with the Members. I would very much like to thank the Minister and all excellent colleagues from the Office of Law and Government of the President's Office, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Justice, in particular Mr Marcin Romanowski from the Institute and Mrs Aleksandr Różycka. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Mr Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! PiS naturally supports this project. The idea of Andrzej Duda from the 2015 campaign to create a mechanism of free legal assistance for citizens was undoubtedly a jackpot, because it responded to widespread social expectations for such assistance to arise. However, the execution by the PO-PSL coalition was, in colloquially speaking, poor... [[Voice from the room: And what's that for?]] ...also because they acted without conviction, they acted hurriedly and on the eve of the election. The point is that there were rules that few could actually benefit from. Many points of legal aid in Poland were lit and still glowing with emptyness. By adopting the amendment, we want to change that. We assume that we will not substantially increase the cost of the system, but we certainly want to increase its efficiency in order to use the public funds allocated to it in an efficient, optimal way. Incomparably more citizens will be able to benefit from the aid, as it is enough to state that they are unable to bear its costs. We assume that, in principle, those who are in need will benefit. On the other hand, the existing or even initially proposed complex directory and the system of verification of allowances have made this system not only less efficient but also less friendly to citizens. Public opinion polls show that bureaucracy and lack of trust are among the fundamental problems of the wider justice system. That is why we have sought solutions under this law in order to limit such perception, to limit the field to such allegations. Our aim was to increase the number of legal aid beneficiaries, to re-bureaucratise the system and make it as simple as possible. It should also be added that the scope of the aid has been greatly extended, which is very strongly supported by the Law and Justice, as this aid will not include, as so far, only legal advice itself, which has often been complained about, but also, which in turn was expected by many citizens, the preparation of basic pleadings. In addition, we create new services: free civic guidance and free mediation. We also emphasize and develop the original intuition so that this system also includes legal education. Advice will be provided on important matters of life, which are not necessarily strictly legal, i.e. for the indebted, in housing and social matters. It is worth emphasising the possibility of mediation. We all know that courts are flooded with a lot of cases, which means that, even in a simple case, you often have to wait for months or even years. The development of alternative means of resolving disputes would help to unblock courts and, no less importantly, help to create better social relations. We know very well that not all disputes have to end in court. In conclusion, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of the project. We support the creation of a system of free assistance, a wide, accessible, citizen-friendly system. On this occasion, I would also like to make a few amendments, put them in your hands, Marshal. In order to avoid interpretation doubts, which were signalled during the committee's work, inter alia. We want to clarify the rules so that there is no doubt that free civic guidance under this law does not affect the functioning of such advice provided or operated outside the system. Come on. We would like to clarify the provisions setting out requirements for those providing free civic guidance, including the requirement to have a higher education. These are the most important amendments. There's five of them in total. I'm handing them over to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, ma'am. I'm sorry. Before giving the floor to Mrs Katarzyna Osos from the Civic Platform, I wanted to welcome the young people from the Primary School in Choczew in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] And now Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on Free Legal Aid and Legal Education and some other laws. In 2015, the Civic Platform, following extensive consultation, prepared a law aimed at providing access to free legal advice for those who, due to their material status or their living situation, are unable to obtain professional legal advice. It was the first act of this kind, although there have already been numerous attempts to adopt such a law. We did it. Today, the President proposes changes which essentially involve extending the scope of the subject matter and the law in question, but also changes concerning the procedure for the selection of non-governmental organisations providing free legal assistance, the possibility of providing free civic guidance or the possibility for local authorities to define specific points of free assistance. During the committee's work, new solutions were proposed for those entitled to receive free legal assistance. A broad catalogue of those who are entitled to such assistance has been abandoned and it has been pointed out that it will benefit all those who are unable to bear its costs. We support this change. I would like to point out that a few months ago we tabled a bill in which we guaranteed every citizen access to free legal aid, because for us it is a continuation of what we started in 2015, so we want everyone to have access to free legal assistance. Unfortunately, a number of amendments proposed in this amendment are unacceptable. First of all, our comments, which were heard at first reading, but also during the work of the committee, concern provisions conferring powers on the voivodships to draw up a list of non-governmental organisations entitled to provide free legal assistance and civic guidance. The inclusion on this list will also be a condition for the organisation to be able to compete later in the competition for conducting such points. Bonding these organisations in advance to sign up for such a list is contrary to the idea of an open competition and we do not understand why even this system of free legal assistance you want to centralise. Indeed, this list will neither improve the system nor guarantee that the quality of these benefits will be at the highest level. That's what we need other tools for. There are voices that you just want to politicize organizations. Maybe it's just supposed to be a stick for those insubordinate organizations to the government, a punishment that they won't be able to apply for such points later. During the committee's work there was also a broad discussion on the obligation to hold 70 hours of civic guidance training. We also believe that these records, this training, will in no way ensure uniformity of levels or standards. Secondly, it is the generation of unnecessary costs, and it will certainly not be the effect that the applicant expects. Such training is not the best tool to ensure that such advice is of high quality. Other solutions are also needed here. We are making an amendment and we hope that it will be taken into account because each of us wants this free legal advice system to work smoothly and transparently, but also not generate unnecessary costs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u249	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen and honourable Members, Well, I have to say, I've been wondering from the beginning whether you even know what legal counseling is. Legal advice, this free legal advice, Madam, Members, has been in place since 2000. There wasn't a bill at the time. Non-governmental organisations did this, but not NGOs, only those small organizations spread around Poland. They tried to do it and did it free of charge. At the time when the cash register appeared, in 2015, a large number of NGOs appeared on the market, which suddenly entered civic guidance into the statutes. And what happened? To the fact that NGOs today are organisations of legal advisers and lawyers who use this 50% share for the organisation. What's this all about? This is because the association writes a project, signs a contract with lawyers, because it has to be signed, and then lawyers fire up the association's money, which is a manifest corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, this guidance has been operating in principle on the basis of two laws since 2015. First of all, it's a law on counseling. Secondly, it is a selection of a competition task based on the 2003 Law on public benefit organisations. What does it prove to be? The fact that this contest is written... I mean, what kind of contest is this? You set any points, you get the task commissioned, the point is not prepared by the association, only by the county or the municipality. As a matter of fact, the association only has to sign contracts with lawyers and perform a service for lawyers. [[Voice from the room: Take the money.]] Take the money to the left - to the left, because those who don't want to take it to the left don't take it. But if they don't take it, then at this point they bear the costs, because they have to set up a separate bank account, they have to make transfers that they pay, they often have to give their paper, their legal programme, etc., which is pure fiction. And there was an initiative... Oh, one flaw was that old law, the one that was: it promoted people up to the age of 25 and over the age of 65. I have to take a shortcut because I won't have time. In this new law this has been extended - and here praise has been given to the Minister, the President - and what the committees have done by producing printing 2616, this is a caricature, this is a disgrace that does not bear the seriousness of the situation at all. Ladies and gentlemen, you're starting to charge money to the organization, the left ones. Now it's gonna be called a civic aid network. And let me tell you this, ladies and gentlemen: this cannot be the case. First of all, I would eliminate VAT, as is the case in educational matters, I would keep the same costs, I would legally give the 3% or 5% NGOs to cover their own costs, not their earnings, and I would end up with fiction, bribery. And I'll tell you what it looks like in the county, what they're admitting to. Well, in the powiats it looks like this - if the organization had a project and accounted for it, it got extra points, and when it wants to join, and although it works for 20 years, it never did the project, but it was an organization with the status of the OPP and accounted for with the ministry every year at least with 1%, it would not get those points. Therefore, the evaluation system, which qualifies organisations both for civic guidance and for legal advice, is fatal. I would advise you to check from which year NGOs, these fictional NGOs, have included legal advice in the statutes. Then you'll know why they did it, then you'll see. This should be the basic criterion - the organisation should have this included in the statute for 5 years, it should be a public benefit organisation, because then it is tested, it is known how it is, because it reports and is either questioned or not. And you've made a wick, an insolent wick, according to which you intend to hand over tens of millions to your people. And that's not gonna happen to us. I therefore request that the project be rejected in full on behalf of Kukiz15. We will vote against all the amendments that will be made, because this bill will not be able to be corrected, ladies and gentlemen. If you want to throw away another $100 million, throw it away, but without us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u251	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u252	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and some other laws, prints No 1868 and 2616. The aim of the submitted project is to extend the scope of the subject matter and the law on free legal aid, to amend the procedure for the selection of non-governmental organisations providing free legal assistance, to enable non-governmental organisations to provide services under free civic guidance and to introduce the possibility for local authorities to define specific points for free assistance. Wide and easy access to free legal assistance is a huge opportunity to equalise citizens in the light of law. In this way, the weakest, financially deprived people receive instruments that enable them to safeguard their rights in a situation of dispute with the state or an unfair corporation. I am therefore pleased that the Sejm of the previous term passed a law on free legal aid and legal education. However, it should be noted that the solutions adopted require in-depth analysis and significant improvements, as best demonstrated by the latest report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. One could hope that the presidential bill would be an opportunity for positive changes in the issue of free legal assistance. Unfortunately, despite the undoubtedly good intentions of the President, the project contains numerous legal shortcomings and its effectiveness is questionable. I presented my reservations about this project during last year's debate. Most problematic entries were removed from the project during the work of the Emergency Sub-Committee, but the availability of free mediation may be limited due to the fact that an entry on lists of permanent mediators by district courts is required. Let us remember still a small number of mediators who, moreover, usually operate in larger urban centres, as well as a small number of lawyers and legal advisers in the number of mediators listed by the Presidents of the District Courts. The risks arising from the introduction of specialization of on-call services at legal aid points are also perceived. There are indications that a large proportion of visits to such places have covered more than one area of law, e.g. family, housing, tax and criminal law. In the current version, the project continues to contain an incomprehensible and even harmful record of the creation by the voivod of a list of non-governmental organisations entitled to provide free legal assistance. This list is unnecessary, as the verification of the organisation will take place each time the seniors perform the competitions. This is another unnecessary manifestation of the centralization of the state. In addition, in practice this can lead to responsibility shifts. Self-governments may mistakenly assume that the voivode has made a sufficient assessment of the organisation. In addition, Minister, please note that the governor is entitled by law to cancel the contract, terminate the contract for free legal assistance in the event of a breach of the rules governing the inclusion of certain organisations in the list of voivodships, so the voivodeship will maintain for its part an official apparatus which will qualify certain organisations to be included in the list of voivodeships, and the voivodship will in turn maintain a camera that will verify whether the continuing organisation with which the contract is concluded fulfils the conditions for listing organisations authorised to provide such assistance. Isn't it worthwhile, instead of maintaining unnecessary official mass both in the county government and at the state level, in the office of the voivodeship, to allocate these funds to the most deprived for legal assistance and civic guidance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u253	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education and on certain other laws contained in the Seym Papers No 1868 and 2616. At the same time, I am very pleased that we are returning to the problem of improving the availability of legal advice. It is a pity, Minister, that you, together with the President, have gone into more drastic changes that raise doubts rather than focusing on such initiatives that improve the availability of justice. not only in the country, but also outside its borders. Widening access to free legal advice is something concrete that changes something from the perspective of an average citizen who has a problem with access to legal assistance. It is often the financial causes and poverty that are a problem here. To move on to the project itself, Minister, I must say that we will have a serious problem with this bill, and it is not because we regard this project as a bad one. The extension of the scope of the subject matter, as well as of the Act in question, is certainly positive. What the government proposed in the previous term was the first step. Today, of course, it is worthwhile and it is necessary to disseminate this free help, to expand it, to make it more accessible, because life has also verified that we have not always dealt with this availability, while there are doubts already raised by the previous speakers about problems, especially the voivodeship's competences, which are nothing more than the possibility of interfering with what is happening at the level of the district government in this regard. I think that this is completely unnecessary, because it gives the impression that here is a government representative, you or your voivode in any region, who will directly affect what organisations are good and can provide legal assistance and what not. There's more to it than that. It will always be in the shadow of some suspicion that some political circumstances will also play a role. It's useless, it's useless. Just as doubts about the organisation and the accusations that were also here, about excessive bureaucraticisation of things that, seemingly, should not be bureaucratic. Therefore, there are serious doubts and we have the difficulty of addressing this project in such a clear and positive way. Nevertheless, as the PSL - UED Members' Club, we appreciate and appreciate this initiative by the President. Minister! Let's hope there are more such initiatives to improve justice, because it certainly deserves to be improved, but let's do it so that citizens, not politicians, can benefit from these changes. I'll allow that, Your Marshal, to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u255	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, is the first question to be asked. Question time - 1 minute. There's no envoy. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for the draft law on amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Legal Education, which extends this, among others. for free mediation, how important in many disputes. I trust that many Poles in difficult situations will benefit from this possibility and that mediation in a large number of cases will put a halt to further legal action and the consequences associated with it. Knowing that there is unfortunately not a very large number of Poles using free counseling, I am concerned that it will not be the same in this case. Minister! Do those in need of free advice and mediation in Poland have sufficient knowledge that such guidance exists where it exists? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is information policy sufficient in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u257	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the questions I was able to ask during the speech, but I have one more question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 it is said that when it is not possible to deal with the interests effectively, the old-timer may decide to extend the duration of the on-call time at certain consultation points. And that's a really good record. However, the following paragraph states that the extension of the duration of duty does not result in an increase in the resources allocated to the task in the tax year. So, in other words, do you not think that the starosts will very rarely exercise this power because of the slim financial resources available to this level of local government and de facto this paragraph. Six, it's about the possibility of extending specific shifts, will it prove to be a deadly rule? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs. Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It has already been mentioned about these additional tasks for the voivodship, it is a list of NGOs entitled to conduct points in the voivodship area, as well as organisations entitled to provide free legal assistance and free mediation. The rules are very detailed in relation to the conduct of this list, the responsibilities and criteria to be met by NGOs, the whole procedure for listing or removing the voivode from that list, and the annual reporting obligation. It's about a massive bureaucracy that's not free. It's gonna cost a lot. This money, instead of being sent to legal aid, will be used for organizational purposes. Who needs a list like this? These are political decisions, very dangerous. I suggest you withdraw from the idea of this list. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one question, above all, concerning the extension of the group of beneficiaries. In order to extend this group to people with disabilities, homeless, poor, it is also about mediation, it is absolutely necessary to spend more money on it. However, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the funds for this purpose are to remain outstanding. So in my mind, hopefully only in mine, there will be no extension. There can't be an extension. I talked to employees who gave such advice in Warsaw. They're all very burdened. As my previous speaker said, there's no money at the moment for any administration. The lawyer doesn't have a secretary to write people down. And there are days when people leave bitter because they have not been accepted. How many people can such a lawyer accept? Here's another thing. Letters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people are very often unable to prepare their own writings, and the lawyer has no time to help them. So how can this work be done without additional resources? I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u263	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the proposed amendments to the Law, called the Law on Free Legal Assistance, please answer a few questions, raise a few issues which essentially affect the shape of the Act and the provisions contained therein. First of all, what percentage of legal advice were family matters in which a mediator is now to appear under the law? Secondly, what percentage of legal advice was provided to those in debt in housing matters? And thirdly, what percentage of legal advice were social security matters? Additional questions. What is the average amount spent on advice per person? Are the rates differentiated? If so, what does it depend on? How's the advice time going? Do advice end with one visit? The project assumes that the advisory body must have time to read the case. And one last thing. In connection with the extension of legal education services, who will benefit from these activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will they be selected, selected for action, and the results of their activities controlled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u265	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u266	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Free legal assistance is a 2015 Civic Platform project. And that's not a discovery. And now will the president who presented this project succeed? Mr. President failed with the tax-free bill, which was a promise from the election campaign. Minister, you have failed to push through the Frankish project. It didn't work, and he's lying down. The President isn't doing anything about it, which means it was an apparent act. The president didn't make it. He's completed the amendment of the Creditor Support Fund Act. How are you going to do that, if there are reservations that Mr.Jachnik referred to regarding the list kept by the voivode, it is about verification, the imposition of additional fees for the association, i.e. a specific racket without these entities... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are trying to politicize this: the Minister of Justice, the courts, the prosecutor's office, the voivode, the registers. This bill should help citizens, and unfortunately the mediation tool does not have the same...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u267	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u268	...forces of influence like judicial mediation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u269	Thank you, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform was and is very proud of this idea, of this project. We are pleased that it is being continued, but we have a lot of doubts and a problem with their acceptance due to the current changes in the records. I want to ask you how many offices or legal advice points have been organized all over Poland so far. I would also like to ask for information on the amount of financial resources allocated to their functioning. But I would also like to know, from you, whether you have such knowledge, whether it exhausts citizens' needs in individual counties, or whether not all those in need of such advice can take advantage of them. Do such persons have this access in any way difficult? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u271	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to ask the Minister and the rapporteur. Do you know what mediation is and how it works? Is there even a legal basis on which it operates? I'll answer you. It is regulated in a very ambiguous way in the Law on the system of universal courts and the Code of Civil Procedure. What does that mean? That anyone can become a mediator if they pay $2.5,000. zł for a course that runs just any organization. That's what it's gonna look like with the counselors. Everyone will now be able to become a citizen's counsellor. He'll pay $3,000. For a course that I don't know where they're gonna go, maybe from this Ministry of Justice fund, and he's gonna be a citizen's advisor. That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. Please specify to me what powers he will have and how he will obtain them. I would read to you what advice this counselor should give - psychological, pedagogical, counseling cannot give them. That's the kind of nonsense you write in this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u273	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Anna Surówka-Pasek, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u274	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When referring to the comments made here, first of all, I would like to refer to all the proposals relating to the list of voivodships. The creation of a list of voivodships as a stage of indirect verification of persons, or otherwise: entities, not so much persons as organisations entitled to provide civic guidance, is, in effect, the implementation of a request which has been made by the Supreme Audit Chamber to harmonise the way in which legal assistance is provided free of charge and to create a verification mechanism. So far, it has appeared that individual elders have decided on their own when and under what circumstances they consider that the social organisation fulfils the conditions necessary to provide free legal assistance, while the verification of the voivodeship will be purely formal, it is a certain standardization of those elements which the organisation must fulfil in order to qualify for this system. On the other hand, this initial qualification will relieve the old men, because they will no longer be obliged to carry out a review of whether the organisation fulfils all the formal conditions for the granting of guarantees, such as the secrecy of certain information, ethical behaviour or internal control within this organisation, which will provide services in the field of free legal assistance or free civic advice, while only the burden associated with the choice of the organisation with which it will sign will be passed on to the elder. It should also be noted that it is through the voivodeship that funds are transferred to provide free legal assistance for the implementation of this system. Moreover, as regards the position of the elders, it is important to bear in mind that they are carrying out the task assigned to the government administration, therefore maintaining this contact with the voivode as a representative of the government administration in the field seems reasonable, but from the point of view of the control of public spending. Another issue concerns training or the conditions that citizens' advisers should fulfil. In addition to the condition of training, which was proposed in the submission, there is another requirement, namely to have appropriate experience in providing such services. The law or the submission requires that such an organisation, which will compete in a competition for civic advice, have at least 2 years of experience in this field. Therefore, the 70-hour course is one of the elements, but not the only element that needs to be met in order to be qualified for this type of civic advice. Another issue raised concerns family matters which have been dealt with in previous years by points of free legal assistance. According to the statistics made available by the Ministry of Justice, family law cases accounted for 7.92% all the advice given, while those concerning divorce, separation, distribution of common assets accounted for 5.8% all advice provided under the free legal aid scheme. Currently there are 1524 points of free legal aid. From the part of the Ministry of Justice, 95 million PLN per year is allocated for this purpose. As regards matters relating to the qualifications of mediators, I would like to refer to the regulation currently in force, Article. 183 Code of Civil Procedure. This regulation, which is included in the submission, in the draft law, corresponds to the requirements which are foreseen for the mediator under the Code of Civil Procedure. In a commentary on this part of the Code, one can quote the words of the author, which indicates that the mediator's qualification for mediation is not so much his education as a certain actual ability to mediate. These issues were also raised by the environment of lawyers and legal advisers with whom this submission was consulted. They pointed out that no counsel or lawyer could be forced to mediate because not everyone had personality traits that would allow him to mediate. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the system's capacity, the legal advisers themselves indicated in the opinion addressed to the High House that at this point it was not possible to assess the efficiency of the system, but it could be pointed out - and this was also mentioned in the justification for the translation - that at present most of the measures which could be used as free legal aid are not used because of the closed, very limited catalogue of eligible persons. The Presidency's submission serves to make better use of the budget resources that will be used for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u276	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to thank you for this project on free legal assistance and the possibility of using mediation. It seems obvious to justify these thanks. The problem is: Do those who really need this advice know where to turn? Is information policy sufficient in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u277	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law on amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and those imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Law on personal income tax and the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds (Prints No. 2062 and 2571). I ask Mr Jack the World to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 5 June, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs examined the Senate's draft law on amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of public-funded health care. The draft and report can be found in prints 2062 and 2571. For the sake of order, the bill entered the Sejm on November 16th. The first reading in the plenary room was held on 10 January, as early as this year. The government's position, positive by the way, was received on 13 April. I would also like to remind you that the purpose of the Act is to grant additional rights to deportees consisting mainly of access to health services and welfare services outside the order. In order for these benefits to be carried out, the entitled persons must present the relevant document, the card, and therefore the law also regulates the granting of the right card. The project raised no doubt about its content. We all agree that helping people today is usually old and sick is obvious, it is our duty, therefore the bill was adopted unanimously by the committee. On the other hand, during the discussion there were question marks concerning not so much the substance of the case, as well as cases, let's call it legislative. There was a doubt that this section of the I.D. Act did not conflict with the recent regulations of the GDPR. The Ministry of the Family and the Veterans' Office have undertaken to check these issues. There was also a question as to whether in the article. 47c of the amended law should be amended in accordance with the amendment of the law which will enter into force on 1 July. Theoretically, there was a risk that today's law would have entered into force earlier and then, of course, such an adjustment would have been a legal mess. There was also a problem whether this law should enter into force in 14 days at all, or rather it should enter into force on 1 January next year with a major systemic amendment of legislation regulating the powers of the various social groups who have the power to special benefits. Such a position should be put forward by the Government in order to ensure that all these authorising acts enter into force from 1 January 2019. In any event, the committee has decided that a further delay pending this undoubtedly necessary law is not needed and that this law will be adopted, but that we have had two weeks to consider the issues at issue or the doubts and possible amendments to be tabled at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u279	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in the labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Law on personal income tax and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. The aim of the proposed law is to grant additional powers to persons deported to forced labour, which do not require financial expenditure, relating to health care and social care. The proposed law does not change the scope of the entitled persons and does not interfere with their rights to benefits so far, while giving them new rights. According to the project, people deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union during and after World War II will be given the right of priority to environmental social protection, including to obtain a place in a social care home, to benefit from health care and pharmaceutical services outside the order. In addition, the Act will allow local authorities to provide assistance to eligible persons through communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. In accordance with this project, the persons fulfilling the conditions listed in the Act will be issued the ID cards of the person deported to forced labour or imprisoned in the labour camp by the Third Reich and the USSR. The proposed changes are supported by the Union of Combatants of the Republic of Poland and the Former Political Prisoners and the Union of Invalids of the War of the Republic of Poland. The powers conferred by the law are similar to those currently available to combatants, victims of repression and anti-communist opposition activists. Persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the USSR due to age and health require increased care and care for medical and social care. By introducing the changes contained in the project, access for persons entitled to the above mentioned. services will significantly improve. The project meets the expectations of victims of the occupation, as well as a sense of social justice. The Law and Justice Club shall submit five amendments to the bill and ask them to be dealt with in the Parliamentary Committee. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill with the amendments attached. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u282	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, prints No. 2062 and 2571. This project aims to address the needs of people deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the USSR, which, due to age and health, require increased care and social, medical and care care. It is worth mentioning here that this project is a continuation of the work already started in the previous term of the Polish Parliament by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the relevant subcommittee. The solutions proposed in the draft law are to add provisions on the basis of which persons deported to forced labour would enjoy: the right to benefit outside the order of health care and pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies, the right of priority to environmental social protection, including the right to a place in a social assistance home, and the right to obtain outpatient specialized benefits without referring health insurance from a doctor. Here I also have some doubts to share with you. We have some concerns about the practical implementation of these records. In recent times, in order to calm down negative social sentiments, governments have proposed in many laws the priority of different individuals in the health system. Access without a queue and without restrictions is proposed today actually to all the social groups that are protesting, but Minister, Minister, to such a simple logic when too many groups are granted priority rights, it will be a fictional right, only on paper, it will not be feasible in practice and it will be a dead law. We're really worried that this priority might be a little illusory. I would also like to ask you, not for the first time, how you value the price list, the amount of priority in the pharmaceutical queue. That's a frequently asked question today. I also have concerns about the priority of the DPS. Today, even with priority referral to the DPS, it may turn out in practice that you will be waiting for the place a few, several months. In addition, the project provides for the possibility for people deported to compulsory work to be assisted by local authorities in the areas of communication facilities, housing, cultural, health and education services. The document confirming the right to exercise these powers will be the legitimacy of the person deported to forced labour and embedded in the labour camp by the Third Reich or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics issued by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. It is worth to add here that when we consider the number of veterans, but above all their merits in the fight for independence of Poland and the fact that they are elderly people suffering from many diseases requiring special care and care, including requiring constant and specialised medical and social care, this law should be implemented as soon as possible and without undue delay. We strongly hope that the revised bill will improve the access of people deported to forced labour to better medical, nursing and social care, and thus will satisfy the expectations of those affected by the occupation. The proposed changes represent a solution to the policy of protection and assistance of the weakest and are objectively consistent with the universal sense of social justice. In conclusion, I would like to inform the High House that the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland will vote in favour of the law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Act on personal income tax and the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds, prints No. 2062 and 2571. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u283	Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u284	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speakers have practically said everything you can say about this bill. Respecting you and your time, and not wanting to bore the young people who are watching us, I just want to inform you that Kukiz will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u285	Thank you, sir. I'd like to welcome the children from the primary school in Wąpiełsko. We'd like to welcome you all. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas. [[Voice from the room: I'm still here.]] Sorry, Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u286	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Print needed, print well accepted by everyone. Without prolonging, I would also like to say that the Modern Club will support this project fully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u287	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u288	Dear Marshal! Minister! As my colleagues think, I would like to say that the bill's printing is good. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u289	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those deported to forced labor in the Third Reich and the USSR are already elderly, and indeed few of them will benefit from the provisions of this law. The right to priority to environmental social protection, including obtaining a place in a social assistance home, the right to benefit outside the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services, the right to obtain outpatient specialized services without referral from a doctor of health insurance are benefits that have long belonged to these people. So I am glad that those who remain will see these really small facilities and powers. On behalf of those who have asked me several times during my parliamentary shifts to support this bill, I thank the senators, in particular Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, for the initiative. Thank you to all those who have led to today's procession. I hope the Sejm doesn't have any problems with her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As chairman of the parliamentary team supporting the environment of Polish children of war, I note with great satisfaction this senate initiative. We fully support it, but I have a question related to the fact that in the Act we ask that the various powers regarding effective assistance, effective assistance for those who were repressed during World War II, imprisoned in various German and Nazi camps, be effective. The question is to issue a card. How are they supposed to pursue them? In the explanatory memorandum we wrote about the fact that their physical condition is bad enough to support them in getting to doctors, to care centers of total care, but also in a formal sense, i.e. in applying for I.D. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Those deported to forced labour and those imprisoned in labor camps are elderly, sick, in need of help. This aid, which is proposed in the draft law, is aid of an organisational nature. I have a question: Why was it not decided to offer financial assistance through the Veterans' Office? After all, deportees need money for drugs, because free drugs are fiction, after all, there are no free drugs. On the other hand, on the basis of the latest Act on Persons with Disabilities, we know that the National Health Fund does not have any additional money for rehabilitation. He decided to extract this money within the limits he had, so that law might not work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why has financial assistance not been used that would be easier and more effective? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u295	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project grants additional powers to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I'm thinking about two benefits, i.e. access to healthcare services beyond the order of order and the same privilege as for pharmaceutical services provided in pharmacies. I have two doubts as to whether these are indeed the most necessary additional powers, when many of these people are often in poor health. This health condition He doesn't even let them leave the house, let alone enjoy the privileges that we want to give these people. My second question is whether giving privileges to the next group of entitled persons to whom it is absolutely due will not create such a situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the queue will be created only by eligible and privileged persons from individual groups. Doesn't this right become just a dead record and really fail the exam in everyday life, in the daily functioning of these exceptional people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u297	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u298	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by saying I'm all for this bill. However, I have some doubts about the possibility of smooth implementation of the provisions of this law. This law refers to another group that has recently acquired so-called statutory rights. priority to various health benefits and welfare benefits. And very well, however, if these groups are getting more and more, then I have really serious doubts and concerns about whether there will still be a queue and this priority will be actually very illusory. I have already mentioned the example of a priority referral to a welfare home, to a DPS. Because it's a priority and this referral doesn't give any guarantee that this waiting time will be very short or zero, because it's still a few, several months. By the way, I'd like to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what it will look like to work with POZs and DPSs in practice, because it is important enough to implement this law efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u299	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the proposed amendments to the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to workers in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, please respond. They have already sounded earlier on the occasion of my fellow Members' comments, but I would like to pay very much attention to this. Under what rules will the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy grant seats in social assistance homes to persons listed in this Act who will make such a request in a given place of residence when there are more of them? Will the order of application be affected, the speed of the application, i.e. the priority, or age, or will there be completely different criteria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u301	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u302	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During the discussion, a number of questions were asked about the regulation contained, I stress, in the Senate draft law amending the law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. The first of the questions concerned the procedure for applying for the right to benefit from those benefits which will be granted after the entry into force of the draft law discussed today. Thus, the procedure itself assumes that the opening of proceedings to establish the acquisition of the right to these benefits will take place at the request of the entitled persons. Such a request will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. It can be said that such a formal expression of entitlement will be the issue of a special card. On the basis of this type of document, this type of proof will allow the person entitled to go to the appropriate institution - I am thinking here, especially the healthcare provider - and apply for the health benefit of a primary healthcare doctor without waiting in queue, a doctor providing specialized outpatient services without the need to apply for primary health care from a doctor or health insurance doctor. The question has been raised as to why it is only about this type of entitlement related to the use of care benefits. I would like to say here that the scope of these powers, which are assumed by the Senate draft law, does not only cover places in social assistance homes, but more broadly, concerns welfare benefits, health benefits, the availability of these health benefits and various communication, cultural facilities, which can be granted by local authorities. I would like to say that we are dealing with a bill which is complementary to a large project - a government bill amending in a systemic way so-called. Veteran law. This project also includes solutions addressed to this group of veterans, people deserved, to whom today the bill is being discussed. As regards the issue of financial assistance - this thread appeared in the course of the discussion - I would like to say that people deported to forced labour or imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics already have the right to provide money, the amount of which depends on the duration of such forced labour. A government project with proposals for system solutions in the area of veteran law assumes that these persons will also be covered by special ad hoc financial assistance, which may be provided by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. In the course of the discussion, you also raised a thread concerning, as if a combination of powers which this draft law assumes, specific powers, especially as regards access to health services. So I think it's worth referring to the numbers here. This project is addressed to a group of people of about 71 thousand. persons. When assessing the financial impact of this project, we considered that about 60,000 could decide to apply for such a right to exercise these rights. eligible persons. If we confront this number with the number of persons entitled at all to benefits under the general health insurance scheme or under the public-funded health benefit scheme, and this is a figure of around 36 million, we will conclude that the exercise of these rights should not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law amending the Law on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, the Law on personal income tax and the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. As has been said many times before during the process of this amendment, we are morally obliged to adopt the solutions contained in it. The powers proposed in this Act are identical to those currently held by combatants, victims of repression of the war and post-war period, anti-communist opposition activists, as well as those repressed for political reasons. I have already stressed in my first reading of this novel that Sejm VIII and Senate IX have recently significantly increased the powers of these social groups, but not least those deported to forced labour during and after the end of World War II have been left out in those initiatives. I would like to remind you that the amendments introduced by this proposal provide for these persons to be given the right to benefit outside the order of health care services and pharmaceutical services in pharmacies, as well as the right to obtain outpatient specialist services without referring them to a doctor and, most importantly in my opinion, priority in accessing social assistance homes. The beneficiaries of this act suffered a lot in their lives so that Poland could be independent and sovereign. Today they are often sick people, who need to be properly cared for and who have been waiting for this care and redress for years. I am pleased that after such a time, a project was created, which is a real help to these people and which meets their expectations and the most urgent needs. I'm sorry it wasn't until now. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u305	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Now I wanted to welcome the young people from the Somonin Secondary School Team who came to visit us. and listens to our deliberations today. Welcome. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and some other laws (prints No. 2502 and 2577). I would very much like to ask Mr Kubov to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the law on trust services and electronic identification and some other laws, print No. 2502. The project entered the Sejm on 30 April 2018. The first reading took place at the meeting of the Sejm on 5 June and the project was then addressed to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. On the same day, a committee meeting was held on the subject. The main objectives of the proposed law are to provide Poles with access to e-services and public portals with a single login and password, to create a legal framework for the functioning of the national electronic identification scheme, to create legal bases for the provision and development by the Minister of Digitalization of the public mobile application. During the process of drafting the bill and the substantive discussion, MEPs tabled five amendments, which were accepted by the committee, concerning, among others, adding to the Act provisions which will ensure that the Internal Security Agency is able to examine whether the entity responsible for the system or entities carrying out the following activities in that system confirming the identity and verifying the identity of applicants for electronic identification, issuing electronic identification means or providing functionality allowing the authentication of persons to whom the electronic identification measure has been issued are not under the corporate control of foreign countries. The following amendment allows national banks and cooperative savings and credit banks to submit electronic applications and annexes to claims for benefits under the "Good start' scheme. It was proposed, in the form of an amendment, to change the provisions of the project in order to allow, in addition to the existing possibilities, the display of the Large Family Card also in the public mobile application following an agreement between ministers. In the course of the committee's work, new provisions were also voted to allow the entities mentioned in the proposed rules to use electronic identification means which contain data other than those identifying an officer or a person indicated in those provisions when performing the operational and diagnostic activities. In addition, 24 legislative and two substantive amendments were also tabled during committee work and were accepted by the committee. The Commission authorised the Legislative Office to submit editorial amendments. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the draft law together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u307	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the government draft law on changes in trust services and electronic identification and certain other laws, print No. 2502. We live in times where services provided by electronic means play an increasingly important role. This draft Law and Justice Government allows and facilitates the use of such services both to citizens, businesses and to various public authorities. It is worth recalling that supporting social and economic development through the provision of efficient e-services to citizens, including entrepreneurs, is one of the strategic objectives set out in the Integrated State Information Technology Programme. The aim of the proposed law is, among other things, to provide each person with access to e-services in various public service portals using one login. The purpose of the Act is to enable the operation of online services for which the applicant will be able to consent to the automatic collection of data relating to him, from public registers kept by other public bodies and to the transmission of those data to the requested entity. This will make the use of electronic services more convenient and faster. The amendment also introduces regulations that will provide the legal basis for the functioning of the public mobile application. Within this application, the so-called operation will be started. mDocuments, i.e. electronic documents stored on mobile devices, the use of which will allow citizens, among others. to confirm the rights held, e.g. driver's licenses or other documents such as registration or ID. Public use of the mobile application will be free and voluntary. The proposed law also contains regulations concerning so-called. a cross-border hub that will allow integration of national service portals and identity confirmation mechanisms with similar portals and mechanisms in the European Union countries. In this way, Polish citizens will be able to use the administration services offered in other Member States, as well as, on the other hand, citizens of other European Union countries will be able to use the services of Polish administration. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions are intended to promote socio-economic development. The Law and Justice Club believes that this is a bill that goes in a very good direction, in line with the needs of the state's development. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. At the same time, I make amendments on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u309	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u310	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, at the very beginning, when we talked about this law, when we started proceding it, we pointed out that there is generally an unsatisfactory level of popularization of digital services in Poland. And unfortunately, the index of the digital economy and the digital society, which is presented by the EU authorities, where we are at the gray end, also demonstrates this. We need to take action that will change this and allow us to join this peleton, at the top of the rates of countries that use digital services. It's very common. It should be noted that there is currently no tool to ensure harmonised and secure access to them, as well as the possibility of connecting the electronic identification system provider with the systems that make services available. It must be said that the intention to create a national electronic identification hub is right, because today we are dealing with the fact that we have different passwords and logins to our bank account, practically to every website, to social media, to other services, and unfortunately this creates many problems, because for many users who use the Internet, it is of course embarrassing. It is therefore necessary to create conditions that will be able to prevent and facilitate this. It is also appropriate in this law to create a legal framework for the use of personal documents in electronic form, i.e. mDocuments, documents in mobile phones, because this is indeed the challenge of the 21st century and we should strive to make it easier. And the real solution is to make it possible to present these documents on a mobile phone, because it would definitely reduce our wallets, but fortunately not in financial terms, but in volume terms, and generally make life easier on many issues. Unfortunately, despite many legitimate assumptions that are accepted here, there are many other things. Some are legislative in nature and I will start with that. First of all, I wanted to refer to the legal opinion prepared by the Sejm Analysis Office, which was presented last week and forwarded to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. Firstly, I wanted to draw attention to the following issue. Since this is very complex matter and requires expertise, it is pointed out here that further work on the project seems necessary to draw up an opinion on this submission by IT professionals, as well as experts from e-government, information and communication technologies and techniques. Unfortunately, we did not get such opinions as parliamentarians working in this committee. Secondly, it is also stated in this opinion that the impact assessment refers to the so-called. the agreement conference, but after this agreement conference a new version of the project was prepared, which was not the subject of inter-ministerial arrangements. That's second doubt. And the third point, which is very important, concerns the impureness of these rules. We were talking about the fact that the project provides for fundamental amendments to two laws, the Trust Services Act and the Electronic Identification Act. And here it is clear that the amendments proposed in both laws are serious and extensive and should be made under separate laws because of their subject matter. So one might ask why this is not the case. Moreover, a summary - the proposal requires further legislative work, which would recommend obtaining expert advice in areas relating to the subject matter of this legislative initiative. We didn't get anything in that regard. In addition, when we read this law in committee we received 12 pages of amendments, although the impact assessment for this project was prepared 14 months ago. For 14 months, this project lay and at the very end. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We were surprised by the amendments, which are very extensive, because they concern, for example, the functioning of special services, require specialist knowledge and change some very important laws. So that these are our doubts...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u311	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u312	...which, unfortunately, make us have to expect the Minister to explain why it was so processed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u313	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u315	And please, Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u316	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are facing a very difficult dilemma related to this bill. On the one hand, as we said at the first reading, this law is necessary for Poland. We see that the use of e-government by ePUAP entry is very small, that is 1.5 million inhabitants. To provoke the greater usefulness of these systems, we must do something. Indeed, as the rapporteur has said, the law responds to this, creating an opportunity to enter e-government through e.g. banking or telecommunications services, or even federatively at all, because this Federation model is being promoted here. I'm talking about entering through all kinds of websites, sites that will be admitted by the Ministry. However, in agreement with my previous speaker, I must say that such a method of proceding is wrong, i.e. we cannot sign responsiblely a project that is so procedated. At the last minute, five amendments tabled by the Member on 12 pages, which were very extensive, entered the committee. The Sejm Analysis Office, when preparing the opinion, pointed out that detailed, technical opinions were needed. The lack of these opinions causes Members to work in chaos, because it is impossible on the one hand to control technical matters and on the other hand to control legislative matters and in such a short time - we had 15 minutes - to get to know it. In addition, when working on this in committee, we were obliged to improve other legal acts, which have nothing to do with electronic nodes at all. One of these amendments concerned internal supervision in the CBA, while the other improved law 300+ so that these payments could take place in September. We understand this need, but this is also an example of the fact that we need to go back to certain matters at meetings that concern something else. Moreover, it was completely grotesque that the Legislative Office drew attention to the fact that, in the first of these amendments, there was a provision that we could do so in exceptional situations, and that this exceptional situation was repeated in a moment. I fear that these five parliamentary amendments grouped on 12 pages, in addition to the 120 editorial amendments of the Legislative Office and the lack of technical and substantive opinions on this draft law, will have to be corrected as well. This can result in e.g. problems such as those currently experienced in the case of Central Vehicle and Driver Registration, CEPiK 2.0 . First, it was difficult to implement this, the Ministry had to step up to meet the legislative requirements of the law, for example. Monday, these systems were shut down. Of course, accidents always occur and glory to those who have mastered it in a rather fast way, but we note that it may be a glow of too rapid law enforcement. These are important issues, we want to apply ourselves to this and I believe that there should be more time or there should have been amendments before, if indeed - as Mr Arkadiusz Carrot pointed out - it was 14 months. The additional thing that was discussed in committee is this Federation model of participation. I wonder because of the reports of the NIK on cybersecurity and statements of public people who held the highest positions in the country, whether opening up to all kinds of portals, sites, of course checked, but in itself may not have proper protection, does not introduce additional risks. I wonder if these areas, such as banking, telecommunications, where there is probably the highest cyber security bar in the country, at this first opening stage should not be the only areas where we agree to enter. I am thinking about this and I will also address this question in part with questions to the Minister, and in the meantime thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u317	Thank you very much. Any of you and your fellow Members want to ask you another question? If not, I'm closing the list. First - Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if in a responsible manner you can guarantee the security of opening up through this law to a Federation model, which will enable anyone - after reporting and undergoing an appropriate verification process - to act as a gateway, access to e-government. We know that e-government, as a function of carrying out a lot of life issues, will also enable all kinds of commitments to be made, and will have consequences. My question is whether the Minister can responsibly guarantee that this Federation model does not expose the residents of the Republic of Poland to additional risks associated with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u319	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u320	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The draft law on amending the law on trust services and electronic identification raises doubts due to previous failures of e-projects in other sectors. Work on them lasts long years, extensive timeliness affects the higher costs of their implementation, and results leave much to be desired. I do not deny, of course, that they are needed, so I ask you to answer the following questions: What period does the Ministry of Digitalization assume for the implementation of the project? What are the costs of preparing it? When will the municipalities be required to apply for the purchase of electronic identification devices? I'm talking about a device necessary to read the identity card equipped with the so-called. the electronic layer, which must be put into circulation by the end of March 2019, otherwise we will be obliged to reimburse the EU grant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u322	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question about the current issue that we're talking about because we haven't had a chance to ask. It's important enough that we may have heard some information from the Minister about it. Because yesterday we had a major failure of many state systems: the CEPiK, the State Registers System, the trusted ePUAP profile did not work. According to the information we have, the malfunction was removed, but what caused it, Minister? How it happened that one failure virtually grounded several very important, most important state services. Is the Minister able to answer this question and reassure the public that these actions that have taken place, and the fact that we have managed to eliminate this failure, prevent... Is it a guarantee that no information of the citizens has been leaked, that the case is secure enough that we can be calm? 'Cause it was a big crash. It's worth it, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to say a few words about this. I'm sorry it's not about the subject, it's about the other side, but I think it's very important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u323	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as regards the accident that took place a few days ago, you will of course have the opportunity to comment in detail on this issue, because the Modern Posel Club has submitted a request for information, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. On the other hand, on the canvas, among others. I wanted to ask how you see this particular issue of infrastructure and the programme layer. Since, of course, there are beautiful words in the bill, it is about beautiful purposes, modern and very necessary, but they need to be properly treated at this level of implementation, i.e. both in terms of infrastructure and programme layer. Question: "How are you going to do this?" On the basis of the implementation of the CEPiK, it can be seen that government institutions do not [[♪ The bell ♪]] are they very capable of implementing complex programmes, are there shortcomings? After the last failure, we can presume that even in the area of the hardware layer there is no redundance, hence the question of how the state will implement this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. Please answer the questions of the Minister of Digitization of Mr Marek Zagórski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for these questions, and thank you for working on this bill. Maybe I'll start with these issues directly related to the bill, i.e. questions about security - it is Mr Pudłowski's questions about the security of this solution and the suggestions that Mr Pudłowski made in committee, whether it would be better to limit the subject-matter of these institutions, which would have the right to apply for the organisation of identification systems, the issue of electronic identification means. First of all, before we decided to submit such a draft law, which establishes a federation model, we had long-term consultations within the government, including with security services. And this infrastructure - both state infrastructure and the whole system - will be under the special care of CERT... CSIRT GOV, which is ABW. This is the first level. This will be governed by the Cybersecurity Act. The second level is related to the amendment that you mentioned to the President. It is indeed a long one, in fact a long one because it refers to several laws, but in principle these rules are all about the same thing, i.e. the possibility of verifying the applicants for the issuance of means of identification, the organisation of identification systems by the Internal Security Agency in terms of the credibility of the entities that organise them. For this reason, I can say that this security control system for operators themselves and their possible negative impact on the security system, and therefore for citizens, is multi-staged and should therefore be tight. The second question is Mr Papke's question of how long we intend to implement this project. This project consists of several elements. I think that you - here too - have really asked a few different things. Firstly, as far as I am concerned, it is about the system itself, the entire infrastructure of the national hub and the accompanying activities of entities which will organise commercial nodes, to issue means of identification. As regards this implementation process, both the national node and the cross-border node are practically ready, waiting for legal provisions. We will gradually connect public platforms to these systems. It seems that the functioning of this national node, the start of operation, is certainly a matter of this year. With regard to the commercial node and the involvement of commercial entities in general, due to the advance of the project run by the National Chamber of Settlements, it is also a matter of months rather than months, I would judge this for a little more than a year. The issue of technical preparation does not, of course, depend on the Ministry of Digitalization. We will be responsible for carrying out this process formally. Here, too, we are already working on this so that, when the law enters into force, there will be all the necessary elements for this - those who wish to apply for electronic identification means, have clarity on how to carry out this process so that the office is ready. So there's no problem here. As far as I'm concerned... It seems to me that there should be no problem with the length of the process, because it is rather an organisational process, and technically we are already prepared for it. As far as costs are concerned, for the issue of infrastructure this year we expect PLN 5 million, 8 million next year plus, if I remember correctly, 4 million spent in the previous year, but here... Five, I guess. Sorry, I guess. I'm sorry, because I can't remember exactly right now. This is the cost of building a national hub. In addition, there is a much lower cost incurred during periods, perhaps 3 million, for the construction of a cross-border junction. This infrastructure in this sense is full. Of course, the cost of maintaining the rest, both nodes and the profile of trusted ePUAP, and what is in the OSR, documents and keeping the system under e-documents are added to this. At the same time, the Member also asked when the municipalities would organise purchases of e-proof readers. This is a separate project, although in this law we have created the possibility to implement this process just for e-proof. It should be possible. However, according to the provisions of the Act from 30 September they should have implemented this already. This process will be managed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and will cooperate directly with municipalities. I will also answer Mr Suchon's question when we envisage implementing this system. Like I said, the national node is ready. We're really waiting on the bill. The cross-border node is ready. Here we are waiting for our foreign partners. It's not up to us. As for the commercial node, it's not up to us. MyID project prepared by KIR, according to our knowledge, is also very advanced. So this is where we should do it quickly. Can we handle the infrastructure? I can say this: I don't think the Member expects me to say that we can't handle it. Of course we're gonna be okay, especially since she's already ready for this piece of infrastructure. He's ready. I don't see any major threats here either, because we can de facto talk about the programme in implementation. If we are talking about a program here, we should possibly talk about an e-services program. It is precisely through this process of cooperation with commercial operators that we will have more pressure on the administration, because it is important to remember that services, e-services do not provide, does not build in the administration only the minister of digitalization. This is also done by other entities, including local self-government units, i.e. more people with electronic identification means. Thus, there is greater pressure on these services to be offered - even better and at an ever higher level. Here, regardless of the actions of the Ministry itself or ministries in this area, we are counting on this to accelerate this process, because there is a difference between 1.7 million users of the trusted profile that we have today, and let's say 17 million users of means of identification in general. We are also counting on this, as I said during the debate at first reading, that this will also be an impetus to the development of commercial services or businesses run by small, medium-sized companies, especially for those for whom the lack of transactional certainty on the client's side is a barrier, especially as regards the provision of certain solutions or the application of certain marketing solutions. Because if we're not sure, it's just a lot harder to offer a rescue sale online. It's not impossible, but it's a lot harder. This involves a number of processes that need to be carried out. Finally, you asked... Speaking of those comments raised by the Legislative Office or the Sejm Analysis Office, I will say this: We believe that this law is well prepared and well carried out. The whole process of working on this law was preceded by extensive consultations, perhaps primarily with the private sector, especially with the banking sector, which is very interested in developing this system and implementing solutions based on electronic identification measures especially for electronic banking customers. Despite the complicated terminology, we cannot change that in this sphere. Although we would probably all want to be able to describe and talk more simply about it, I do not think that in the case of this particular law any additional analyses are needed. On the other hand, I personally agree that we should and we have started to work on such an arrangement of the whole area related to computerization. The Computerization Act was prepared a few years ago and we see it, it requires a comprehensive change - it is all about the work on the so-called. a digital code that has already been initiated. Although it's not easy matter either, and it can't be done very quickly. So that given the comments that you have made in terms of mode of work, this matter must really be well worked, calmly and very well consulted, so as I say, we assume that we will work in this mode. As for the malfunctions, I will not agree with Mr Pudłowski that here speedy lawmaking had an effect on the fact that the device of a certain company broke down, because here it certainly did not have anything to do with it. First of all, I want to say that the news of this accident has been deliberately very widespread by us, mainly because of the aim of reducing the maximum discomfort of citizens who went to the authorities, and it was known that things would not be settled. This is not the first failure that has occurred, but every day such accidents will be more severe, because more and more Poles use e-services. Secondly, I would like to assure you that this process has been dealt with quickly and there has been no danger in terms of the data contained in the systems and data of the citizens. Thirdly, we already have knowledge of the direct cause of the accident. There was a defect in one of the devices that started to operate unstablely and therefore began to drain the bandwidth of connections and systems. We made a decision at some point just to protect the system, to protect the data, to shut everything down, and then get it back on the road. That's pretty much how it went. On the other hand, I can say at this stage that I am personally very dissatisfied with how they worked, and actually the proper procedures did not work, because that equipment failures happen and will happen, that is one thing, but we should have a guarantee that emergency procedures work. Here they did not work as fully as we expected, and hence, in order not to take any risk, we had to decide at some point to exclude individual components of the system. At the moment, a report and an analysis of the whole process are being prepared to re-examine the procedures, analyse the quality of the devices used, and analyse the architecture of the whole of these solutions. I think that this is not necessarily the right time and always the right time for education and learning, but since this has happened, we want to draw the most far-reaching conclusions so that we can make maximum security against such events and have a guarantee that in the event of such accidents, if there are any difficulties, they will be limited above all in time, but there will also be limited negative consequences for citizens and there will be a guarantee that it is safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u327	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A citizen-friendly country today must facilitate its operation in cyberspace. The law on which we are starting provides for the introduction for each citizen of one coherent login, which will ultimately enable the use of all digital administration services. In addition, there will be a structure composed of several resorts, which will be responsible for cybersecurity. However, the fundamental question remains. What will their acceptance mean in reality? As we could expect, we will find a lot of godly wishes and few concrete solutions in the text of the bill. For the time being, another large centralized administrative structure is being created, whose task will be to deal with agile, decentralised cyber attacks that are most often carried out by independent hacker groups. How effective can such a paradigm be in conditions of real danger, let alone war? Can cybersecurity be introduced by law? The government has also adopted regulations that will provide the legal basis for the operation of mDocuments mobile application. This is a good direction because it will result in more convenient access to public internet services. Citizens, instead of many logins used today on different websites, will be able to log in using a convenient and safe way to confirm their identity, e.g. through a trusted profile or other means of identification chosen by them, including previously entered login via electronic banking. Citizens will be able to automatically fill in requests on-line with data collected in public registers in such services. This will make the use of electronic services more convenient and faster - e.g. when submitting an electronic application for an ID card, the form will automatically be filled in with data. Today, the important thing is that many people use the so-called. mobile devices, therefore the system must also be adapted to them. The Act also introduces a legal basis for the operation of a free mobile public application, which can already be used by people who wish to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, there is of course one thing: the system must be well protected and protected. It's a priority. It's also a challenge. At the same time, it is worth remembering the solutions proposed earlier. The transition to an electronic medical discharge system will be particularly important from the point of view of records. Unfortunately, the above law postpones the deadline for their introduction, but we will not block it for this reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u329	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 28 hours 17 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government bill amending the law on the system of monitoring road freight transport (prints No. 1794 and 2609). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Marshal of the Sejm sent on 1 September 2017 a government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road, printing No. 1794, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading, which took place on 28 September Ub. The examination of the draft took place at the meeting of the said committee on 6 June this year, which examined nine amendments. The amendments tabled concerned, inter alia, broadening the spectrum of entities that may carry out analyses for the Head of National Tax Administration. Another amendment lists the expressis verbis bodies to which the head of the National Tax Administration agrees to make the data available. As a result of the next amendment, the Minister of Finance may exclude certain obligations arising from the new provisions concerning the provision of geolocation data and the equipment of transport equipment in locators, if justified. An amendment has also been tabled to remove possible interpretation doubts as to the possibility of withdrawing from the fine in the case of illegal exports of medicinal products, while the absence of tax losses in both indirect taxes indicated in the provision of Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four laws. The Joint Committees: Public Finance and Infrastructure rejected the amendment reducing the fine mentioned in the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2a out of 10,000. Up to 5,000. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend to the High Sejm that this draft law be adopted with amendments adopted, print No. 2609. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u331	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the solutions contained in Government Draft Print Act 1794 as well as in the report submitted, with the exception of this amendment, which was also rejected by the committee. The amendment to the law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road aims to ensure a more effective control of the carriage of goods as indicated in the Act or Regulation of the Minister for Development and Finance as sensitive goods because of the vulnerability to tax law and fair competition rules. The solutions introduced by the amendment of the Law on the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road alongside the recording of the transport of these sensitive goods to date will ensure the supervision of the transport by satellite systems. Data on the location of the means of transport, i.e. a specific date and time, i.e. geolocation data, and the locator number, will be obtained from locators and external location systems. The compilation of these data with the data from the notification document will allow the creation of a map of the carriage of goods and the identification of possible illegal carriages. The advantage of the solution proposed by the Ministry of Finance is that operators, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, will not incur additional running costs because most carriers have means of transport equipped with data acquisition equipment, while those companies which do not have portable devices equipped with a satellite navigation module will be obliged to purchase such a device, but this is the cost within the limit of PLN 300, i.e. it is not a significant cost, and it will not apply to most small and medium-sized enterprises. The advantage of this solution implemented by the amendment of the Act under discussion is also the fact that if the litter does not have its own location systems, it will be able to use an additional application. The application is planned to be made available free of charge on the website of the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Finance and on the Tax and Customs Electronic Services Platform. Entrepreneurs who do not have portable devices equipped with a satellite navigation module will be obliged to purchase such devices, as I mentioned. The costs of these devices will not exceed, as we know, 300 PLN once. The cost of providing a free application shall be covered by public funds. It is a cost of about 100,000. PLN and several million over the next 10 years to maintain the geolocation module. It will be expenditure of the state budget. Indeed, they should be as low as possible, but if we compare them with the benefits that will accompany them, it should be assumed that the benefits will cover these costs. They are estimated at over PLN 6 billion. These are estimates, but the estimates are quite promising. Therefore, any change that aims at better collection of value added tax on goods and services and excise duties does not significantly increase the costs and obligations of economic operators, will be supported by us, and Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and this time supports this project, together with the amendments adopted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the Public Finance Commission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u333	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the monitoring system law. First of all, it should be said that the law itself was adopted very recently, in March 2017. Despite the short duration, further changes are proposed to improve and extend the monitoring system. The legislator bases the monitoring system on two pillars. The first one is a register of notifications and it was introduced under the Monitoring Act. The second, concerning geolocation data, is regulated in this project. We have defined the terms that are needed for the operation of this law, so we have a definition of a locator, we have a definition of an external location system. We also have a number of obligations on carriers covered by the monitoring system. We also have provisions for data collected in the register of notifications to be extended to geolocation data transmitted from locators and external location systems, including geographical coordinates for the location of the means of transport. We also have sanctions. Since these provisions provide for high penalties, we believe that these penalties should be reduced. However, we believe that all of these solutions are justified. At the same time, we have no doubt that the introduction of these provisions must be accompanied by common sense and that the authorities applying these rules should pay attention to the proportionality of the actions and respect for economic operators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u335	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz club15, on the one hand, I wanted to express my understanding that the fight against fiscal crime and with each other must continue and require constant changes, constant adaptation to the new situation as well as technological possibilities. So, as a matter of principle, we need to fight this, we need to introduce new solutions. However, we must also remember that awareness is part of the fight against crime of this kind. And I fear that this law unfortunately does not introduce appropriate withdrawals and appropriate mechanisms that would help entrepreneurs understand what it is really about, and that would help businesses not to take it on the basis of repression, because that is not what it is, and we all know it. This is not a repression, this is a struggle, this is the result of the fact that we are dealing with a huge criminal world, which is simply trying to get us, citizens, to rip us off. Then you have to fight him. But entrepreneurs need to know that they're part of this fight. They, like every citizen, are soldiers in the fight to defend our wallets. Therefore, this element is missing. I also lack more openness, namely to say clearly: it is not that entrepreneurs will not cost anything, and there are no problems at all. However, this will cost, fortunately not much, as well as a whole range of registration, registration, bureaucratic issues associated with this. That's why there's punishment. There are penalties because there are more obligations on entrepreneurs. I stress: I understand that we must impose these obligations, but I would like us to be able to explain this better so that it is not perceived as another repression of the state against entrepreneurs. I would also like there to be a long period in which enforcement of this law will be flexible so that the authorities of the state react flexibly in the first period before all this is implemented, so that they are sure that we do not have another whip for entrepreneurs, but that we have an instrument that is to be a whip for criminals. I know that it may be difficult at the beginning of the period, but it is necessary to prepare properly, including the staff of the state administration, who should know that another new system is being put in place and that there should be no too restrictive approach during the first period. One more element: I am lacking in cooperation here. Unfortunately, we have resort Poland and this is the problem which causes that the new mechanisms we are introducing do not play with other resorts at all. We know that at the moment a fashionable topic, but unfortunately in the black sense of the word, is the problem of garbage and waste. This system should also be used to transport waste and waste which illegally disappears somewhere in black holes that are and are not there. Therefore, such a system, perhaps this system, should also be offered to other services in our country, to other departments which are responsible for the fight against crime, let us call it broadly, ecologically, I mean, of course, waste. In any case, Kukiz15 will support these solutions, and I can't imagine it to be any different, but we would like the executives to remember that this is another obstacle to the lives of entrepreneurs. Therefore, it must be a reasonable, calm, non-strictive way. Restrictions are for bandits, not businessmen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road, printing no. 1794 and 2609. High Izbo! The law presented by the government aims to introduce a more effective mechanism for monitoring road or rail freight transport by using geolocation data. Once these provisions have been introduced, this system will consist of two elements. The first is a system which will be the responsibility of the head of the KAS, while the second element will be the terminal devices equipped with a module that will allow the collection of geolocation data and send them to this system. As a result of the adoption of this law, transport companies will in fact be subject to new obligations relating precisely to the equipment of vehicles with geolocation systems and the transmission of geolocation data in the case of the carriage of goods, which are laid down in the law or regulation of the Minister. It must be made clear that this is the imposition of further obligations on transport companies, further bureaucratic burdens. Of course, we see in this some kind of necessity arising from the existence of a grey zone, resulting from the fact that there is a group of carriers that violates the rules, breaks the law, cares about the law and thus causes budget losses. Of course, the fight against the grey zone is an absolute necessity, there is no doubt here, but we must also, by introducing such rules, by proposing such regulations, put ourselves in the role of entrepreneurs, put ourselves in the role of transport companies and look at them. What are they gonna cost? What are the requirements? How much more work will they have to devote to these bureaucratic burdens without doing business? From this point of view, it cannot be said that the implementation of this law, that these new obligations will cost nothing. Even if it's 300 zlotys, 300 zlotys are on one truck. If the transport company has 100 trucks, we have a hundred times this amount. If 400 trucks, each truck will have to purchase this module for these 300 PLN or install software on your phone. That's another expense, that's another job. It's not like it's gonna be a free system. It is therefore our proposal addressed to the Minister so that entrepreneurs can obtain reimbursement in this respect on a similar basis as in the case of the fiscal cash registers. Unfortunately, this was not accepted by the Ministry. We regret that we should help transport companies. I have repeatedly said in the High House that this is an example of our little success in the European Union. The transport industry has conquered the European Union, has conquered Europe. Today, Europe is trying to crush the transport industry. We should be helping. Meanwhile, we have further projects, perhaps needed for the shadow economy, but these obligations will not only apply to companies or companies that break the rules - these are, I don't know, 3%, 5% maximum - but will apply to all companies, 100% companies. If someone is honest, they will have exactly the same responsibilities. He will therefore have more of these responsibilities. I must admit that I am looking forward to the moment when the government comes with regulations that will make it easier for our transport companies to operate in Europe. For now, we have a situation where the government focuses solely on these internal aspects and to declare at least that it seals budgetary revenues. One thing I want to say. During committee meetings, we tabled a proposal for an amendment on the reduction of the financial penalties provided for in the draft. There must also be some balance here, all the more so as these rules come in, to be honest, in a rather short time. Part is shifted to 2019 and in general the implementation period is rather short. The fact that there is no gradation of the investigation also raises doubts. Are such high penalties as foreseen in the project really justified? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I say, of course you have to fight the gray area, but you also understand our business. In this spirit, we will decide on the support of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u340	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's government draft law on amending the Road Monitoring System Act and the report presented to the committee we see as the next stage of the government's action towards sealing the rules that will ensure the implementation of the relevant assumptions, contributing to improving the conditions of management, broadly speaking, but also ensure equal opportunities and conditions for the provision of the service to transport operators. We believe as a club that we should support these actions and support them, because we cannot imagine stopping halfway. We believe that the project presented, even though its path was quite long to this day, complements the actions, but I think that here my previous speakers were right at a few moments, because it will require appropriate introduction, appropriate preparation, so that it does not turn out to do so much harm and cause as much negative emotions and feelings as positive effects. I think that many of the issues that arise when introducing new solutions... I think that even when preparing these implementing regulations, the Minister would like to take into account the withdrawal period or, in any other way, to give more information to entrepreneurs so that they can approach these issues here. Surely the introduction of new solutions using new systems and technical achievements, equipment is the right direction. They will be necessary to bear the costs. I hope that these amounts will not be much different in the finals. Suppose it is not 300, 400 or 500 PLN, because there are different issues, there is installation, checking, making it work mobilely, and many other conditions. I think that all of this should have a certain effect, but certainly the most important factor everywhere is man. I don't think it's gonna be exceeded here... there's gonna be an overachievement in the finals, which is after the national tax authorities read, it's not gonna be used to impose any other danins or prepare other business surprises. I am sure that all these issues that involve unfair competition, circumvention of regulations, avoiding the register, avoiding the register of notifications should be eliminated here, but we should not again go too far in the other direction and not harm those who are the basis of this whole system, and I would also like to point out that I think that gentlemen in the government will want to talk to each other and the Minister for Environmental Protection will also want to use these records, as one of my previous speakers pointed out, and this will certainly be useful, because today we will probably also debate waste in late hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u341	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the discussion of this draft law, it was in principle consistent with the substance of the proposed amendments. One amendment concerned the amount of the penalty resulting from the wording of the Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2a, and the penalty was for non-compliance with Article. 10a, i.e. the obligation for the carrier to transmit geolocation data throughout the entire route of carriage of goods covered by the Act. I wanted to ask the Minister: Is this the sum of 10,000? is it more preventive or already restrictive? This penalty should be compared to other tax penalties, because the essence of this law is the protection of our tax system. We know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which VAT deficiencies occurred in previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask: How many solutions have been put in place, both by the current law and by the one in March 2017, when we introduced the first step, the first instrument in the fight against tax fraud in connection with the so-called transport. sensitive goods, for which tax legislation is very often violated, how much of these changes are innovative in the European Union and how much have you used, benefited from, benefited from the experience of the Ministry of Finance in other countries of the European Union? Because in my opinion, these are quite innovative solutions, and if so, the allegations that we are doing an amendment of this law in a very short time are wrong... It's just that if you make such important changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this often requires further step-by-step steps to achieve the desired success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u345	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u346	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you this. The issue of sealing is an issue that is outside the discussion, although, frankly, when we look at public finances, the effects of these seals, which is something that is beyond this economic growth, are not seen so much. So we must also look in such a way as to introduce these seals, but not punish, in short, honest entrepreneurs. Now I have a question for the Minister. When we introduce such solutions, they do not only apply to this group, which is a criminal group, but they apply to everyone, i.e. in the overwhelming majority of honest people, honest entrepreneurs. Therefore, what solutions the Ministry is planning to support honest companies in the transport sector, because, as I said, there is almost 100% , [[♪ The bell ♪]] 99%, 97% And they need that support today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u347	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My fellow Members in their speeches have already asked specific questions on the subject of my interest, but I would like to place particular emphasis on the issues of interest to me. Namely, first: What safeguards have been entered in the geolocation data register throughout the freight transport route to ensure that these data are current and correct? And is there a risk of falsifying this data? And secondly: How will the data be read when the software device is malfunctioning or in case of failure doesn't work at all? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u349	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear young people at the gallery! Will a small carrier, who has only one car, for which even the amount of 300 PLN mentioned by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska... be able to count on the support of state authorities to cover these costs? Because in my experience, I've talked repeatedly, over the years with the owners of the carriers, that the state was only tightening their screws and often giving up their business. For years, nothing has been done to reduce the operating costs of carriers, but only to increase their various costs, and they resign, cease to operate because it is difficult to keep such a small company in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u351	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Walczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u352	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I'm gonna answer some questions, and if you don't mind, I'm gonna start with the last one. Besides, this question about costs was often asked. Once again, I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen, these costs that we have said may not occur in any case. Once again, I stress that over 90%, according to some studies 98% , the carriers have their own systems and we will only join these systems, there will be no costs on the side of the carriers. Only in incidental cases will carriers be able to use our free application, I stress once again, a free application that they can upload on any medium, e.g. The cheapest smartphone. So again, this population of people who do not have any media, practically does not exist in Poland. Even for prosaic reasons, for reasons of safety, each driver usually has a smartphone, for example because of various types of locating systems, systems associated with running them to their destination. So let me stress once again that these costs probably won't be at all. However, we speak honestly here that there may be some incidents and then this cost on the entrepreneur's side will occur, but it will, I emphasize once again, the price of the cheapest device, e.g. the cheapest smartphone on which you can upload your free app. I'll answer the penultimate question about security. This system, of course, was created professionally and is safe. In general, I would like to point out that this system will not contain data relating primarily to any personal data or other sensitive data. He'll only include the device identification number, so there's no danger of leaking that data. On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, how do we secure this system, I would point out that the basic verification is our patrols of the customs-credit service, which will stand on the roads and verify it. And if we have other suspicions, as a result of other activities of the National Tax Administration, we can verify this through, for example, viaTOLL system or other systems that operate in our country. I will answer the rapporteur's first question on the nature of these penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, they are purely preventive. And the best example is that last year we did over 200,000 checks, if I remember correctly, over 200,000, and we only made 180 decisions. So we're really talking about the radial of the punished drivers. As far as this particular penalty is concerned, it does not concern the driver, because this is also worth paying attention to, it concerns the carrier, the organizer of this transport. So there are absolutely no threats here, and this is shown by this law, which operates for more than a year in relation to carriers. And what does she give the carriers? It's honesty. First of all, it gives that they can act honestly, because this duty is equal to everyone. And there will be no such situation when carriers were carrying illegal goods, of course also too much lower rates, because they are out-of-date. This also allows fair competition for Polish entrepreneurs, which we really care about, to have a level playing field, because, please, the fight against the grey zone is not only a fight for the budget, it is above all a fight to ensure fair competition for Polish companies, especially small ones, which cannot cope, acting honestly, when someone offers goods that are not taxed at least by VAT. In answer to the question about how we try to strengthen entrepreneurs, I will say that this is how we give them the opportunity to compete fairly. This is the most important thing. Speaking of these penalties, strengthening entrepreneurs and what gives sealing, which among others. This amendment we want to introduce, I can quote the report that appeared a few days ago, the Global Compact Network Poland report, i.e. the United Nations agenda. I don't think it's possible to assume that we somehow influenced this report here. I will briefly present what was included in this report after carrying out research among entrepreneurs: These penalties effectively act as a deterrent to transport companies, which results from the interviews carried out for the purposes of these reports. It can therefore be assumed that both from the perspective of companies and public authorities, the current situation is satisfactory. The regulation has reached a level which is acceptable by the market. So let's note that the latest report of the UN agenda says that these penalties are adequate and that this sealing absolutely does not impose any heavier obligations, these are solutions that give concrete benefits when it comes to Polish entrepreneurs. I think I've answered all the questions, if not, I'm happy to serve... Allow me to say, with a while, that there is a long penalty here, because the rules on penalties have entered into force since 1 January. That is why today we are talking about the time needed for all entrepreneurs to adapt to this. Secondly, we're talking to entrepreneurs. This law, this amendment of the law, is a compromise negotiated with many Polish entrepreneurs, with whom we have met very often. Training continues and is directed to both our officers and businessmen, the aim is to implement this law so that it does not cause any harm in the case of our honest entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Walczak: Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mrs. Member! I'm so sorry. I really forgot about that question. Absolutely. This solution, which we are proposing, is a phenomenon not only on a European but also on a global scale, because it is actually based on the latest geolocation technique. True, Hungary also locates vehicles using its own system, but it is based on a completely different technology, let's say, similar to our viaTOLL, so the technology is different in this respect. This is actually an innovative solution and I can say with all responsibility that many countries, even very exotic ones, are really asking us about these solutions. I have this example from the autopsy, on the basis of my own experience, I can say that a few days ago I hosted the Romanian delegation, which was also very interested in the implementations that we are proposing here, because of course the problem of VAT fraud, the problem of reducing the state budget and offering illegal products is a global trend and concerns not only Poland, but also many other countries. You can see that this is an innovative solution that we are proposing, which raises interest in other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Noblet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In short words, I wanted to thank all the clubs for their support for this project, for the substantive debate. This is one of the few projects adopted by consensus. As regards the controversy over the level of these preventive penalties, the Minister explained it. And I would like to see all the projects being examined in a similar way within the finance committee. Thank you all so much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u355	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I would like to inform you that item 11 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Waste Act 2550 and 2635 will be considered as the last one today. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Plant Protection Act and some other laws (prints No. 2552 and 2608). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u356	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present the report of the committee, which is included in print No 2608 and concerns a government draft law amending the Plant Protection Act and some other laws, print No 2552. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm Agriculture Committee met on 6 June this year. at a meeting during which the first reading of the draft law was carried out, which was also examined in detail. During this first reading, no amendments were made to the draft, apart from amendments, typically amendments... [[Administrative.]] Yes. ...corrective, legislative. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. I will only briefly state that, after the implementation in 2019 of the provisions of this law, proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Polish government, will change and be facilitated by provisions which concern export of Polish agricultural products to external markets, to other countries. Mostly it is this law that aims to facilitate the export of Polish agricultural products to external markets, to increase it. It is also a matter of reducing and simplifying certain administrative procedures by replacing an administrative decision with a typical entry in the register of companies that are engaged in such international trade. In addition, due to the changes proposed in this project, problems arising from border phytosanitary inspection of wood packaging materials in which agricultural products are transported, whether exported from Poland or imported into Poland will be eliminated. In addition, the draft law contains provisions concerning the cooperation of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection with other administrative units that deal with agricultural products, i.e. Inspection of the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, in order to increase the efficiency of this cooperation. The amendment also applies to another law, not to the Plant Protection Act, but to the Plant Protection Products Act and includes changes to the verification of the procedure for the use of integrated plant production. The proposed changes will generally allow Polish producers and companies exporting Polish agri-food products to external markets for increased trade in agri-food products and to reach more third countries to which Polish food reaches. As I said at the beginning, the committee asks that the attached bill be passed by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u357	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the amendment of the Law of 18 December 2003 on plant protection, print No 2608. The aim of the amendment is to simplify and shorten administrative procedures, facilitate international trade in plant material, eliminate problems arising at border phytosanitary inspection of wood packaging materials, regulate the rules for cooperation between the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection with the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in order to improve the effectiveness of this cooperation, introduce changes in the functioning of the integrated plant production system and lay down rules for keeping the register of exporters and eliminate interpretation doubts arising from the application of the Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003. I will briefly present the proposed amendments. The amended act shall be amended to provide that the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector carries out official checks at the packing and sorting sites of plants, plant products or objects. It is proposed to simplify the procedure for entering entrepreneurs in the register by withdrawing the obligation to make an administrative decision. The entry will be made on the basis of a duly completed application. It is also proposed to refrain from carrying out checks on operators who do not carry out any activity in respect of cultivation, manufacture, storage, packaging, sorting, placing on the market or movement of plants, plant products or objects which are particularly susceptible to quarantine by quarantine organisms in a given year. It is also proposed that checks on operators entered in the register of exporters may be carried out by the State Plant Protection and Seeds Inspection or by bodies carrying out certification activities in integrated plant production on the basis of plant protection products rules. In order to prevent the spread of quarantine organisms, it is proposed that the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector may agree to carry out inspections of wooden packaging and wood used to immobilise or secure cargoes in a place other than the place where they were introduced into the territory of the Republic of Poland. The possibility of accepting destruction of wood packaging and wood used to immobilise or secure goods which have not been labelled in accordance with the standard is also permitted. The consequences of the changes envisaged shall be to take into account the tasks of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspections to keep a register of exporters and to control the entities entered in the register. The proposed amendments to the amended law aim at horizontal regulation of the rules for cooperation between the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspections with the relevant services and inspections. The way in which data will be transmitted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture to inspections on the eradication or prevention of the spread of organisms which are particularly dangerous to plants, which have not yet been present in our country, will be regulated in detail to monitor the regularity of the marketing and use of plant protection products in order to eliminate the risks to consumers or the environment associated with the incorrect use of these preparations, the control of the use of seed, including genetically modified seed. The proposed law will have a positive impact on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship, including micro-entrepreneurs, because the changes introduced by the proposed law aim, among others. allowing access to new markets for Polish products of plant origin. The introduction of the proposed solutions may therefore result in an increase in trade in such goods. The draft law is compatible with European Union law. The Law and Justice Club requests that the bill submitted be passed. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u359	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are considering a draft amendment to the Plant Protection Act and some other laws from print No. 2552. Minister! As I said in the committee, we are open to Polish economic operators - in this case farmers - having access to foreign markets. It is not so, Mr Reporter, that it will be renewed and new. No, it is this bill, at least in accordance with the Minister's words, that will allow the current markets to be maintained and, if possible, to gain more. Yeah, but at what cost? These passports, which the operators will apply for, are very important, in fact, this case will allow Polish products to be exported abroad and sold, only, Minister, tell me why you are turning all this bureaucracy into farmers. You wrote in the explanatory memorandum about simplifying and shortening administrative procedures, and you yourself admitted in the committee that the shortening of administrative procedures concerns those who will issue it, i.e. administrations, not farmers. I firmly believe in the Minister's assurance that the Polish farmer, who will have to go through this whole buchalteria, will have support in the units of the subordinate ministry and that this new bureaucracy, the buffalo, which you are implementing this law, will not harm Polish farmers and the Polish village. I also believe deeply that you will be helping to dispose of the best Polish products in the world, Minister. Because it is not enough to obtain a passport for Polish products to have too abroad, and with this, Minister, you have problems. The Civic Platform Club will not vote against this law, but when this law enters into force, we will pay close attention to how you will help farmers with this bureaucracy and administration. Minister, I am counting on you to keep your word and the Polish farmer will not suffer from the introduction of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u361	Thank you very much, sir. And here you go, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Plant Protection Act and some other laws. The Act is complex and covers many aspects of plant protection. One of the main objectives of the proposed law is to meet the import requirements of countries outside the European Union regarding the phytosanitary safety of products of plant origin. Adapting to these requirements is a basic condition for maintaining and acquiring new markets for Polish agri-food products. To this end, the provisions of the Act to date are supplemented by provisions concerning the subjecting of export entities to the supervision of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection and to the certification bodies of integrated plant production. These actions are dictated by the desire to guarantee the presence of Polish food in non-European markets, as well as to minimise the risk of events that have affected Poland's image and violated the opinion on the quality of food produced in our country. Exports of agri-food products are very important for Poland, so we should make every effort to ensure that our food sold on markets within and outside the Union is very good brand. Of course, international trade is important to us, but we must not ignore the fact that almost 80% of the European market goes to Europe. Polish agri-food products. It is pointed out that Polish food exports worldwide in 2017 amounted to EUR 27 billion, of which 21 brought exports to the EU countries. This is undoubtedly a key market for us. However, there are more and more threats that pose a threat to our exports. Even if we make every effort to ensure that our exported goods are of the highest quality, are subject to all necessary checks and have all the necessary documents, we are in danger of growing protectionism. Corrupt bureaucratic procedures, increased frequency of sanitary checks, requirements for additional certificates, short periods of validity of permits are only some of the examples of discrimination. Our neighbours - Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany - are at the forefront of creating such barriers to trade. Polish producers estimate that as many as 30% of products that go to these countries are faced with various forms of discrimination. This is a real problem which the Polish government should address as a priority, including in particular the Ministry of Agriculture. Another restriction for Poland is the inefficient functioning of promotion funds, whose primary task should be to promote Polish goods and food on external markets. It is the Polish agricultural producers who finance the activities of the funds, but for a long time I have been told that this activity is not effective. A few months ago I submitted a bill aimed at combining promotion funds into one fund for promotion of Polish agri-food products. It would be obliged to use at least 60% promotion measures outside our country. In my view, the opportunity to maintain and increase Polish exports is the integration of producers and processors and to take joint action to: conquer external markets, new export directions and changes in administrative procedures aimed at simplifying them. I would also like to draw the attention of your Members and the Minister to the fact that these activities should go hand in hand with our activity, our ability to promote our country, to highlight the advantages and to encourage the purchase of Polish agri-food products. The Kukiz Club15 will support this solution. We'll be watching the effects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u363	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Draft Print Act No 2552 seems to meet the objectives intended for itself. Import requirements, which concern the phytosanitary safety of products of plant origin, are a major challenge for Polish operators. The task of the proposed extensive regulations is to maintain Polish food products in non-European markets. The State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection will be supervised by entities entered in the Register of Exporters. This function will also be provided by certification operators in integrated plant production, which will reduce costs and procedural burdens for inspection and exporters. Exporters will have to declare their knowledge of the requirements of third countries, including transit countries, to which they will export their products or through which they will be moved. No administrative decision will be necessary when entering an entry in the register of exporters. This is intended to improve the procedure for entering relevant entities in the register. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we heard a declaration from the government on advice and support in adapting exporters to the new rules. We hope that the word will be kept. Improving the operation of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection will be possible thanks to the extensive cooperation with government authorities and local government and professional self-government units defined in the project. As the National Council of Agricultural Chambers stresses, the proposed provision on this subject, namely Article. The 102th Plant Protection Act gives quite broad interpretation possibilities. However, we see the potential to improve action, to the benefit of food producers, especially when carrying out control or enforcement activities. In the course of the work on the project, the difference between the maximum and the minimum monetary penalty that could have been imposed by the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Protection Supervisor on the basis of the revised provisions of the Article has been slightly reduced. 108 Plant Protection Act. This range will allow for a precise adjustment of the fine to the seriousness of the specific irregularities. The principles of cooperation between the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection and the State Sanitary Inspection have not been laid down by law, as is the case with the cooperation of the PIORiN and the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. This is justified by the government's failure to report any problems concerning the cooperation of these authorities. We hope that cooperation will be successful, so far, for the benefit of all parties involved in the work process. The Ministry provides that the effects of the proposed changes will not be evaluated until the following year after they have been introduced. Although these changes are intended to open markets in third countries to Polish producers, the scale of exports is intended mainly to depend on trade contacts between Polish operators and their customers. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u365	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. And I would like to ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz.15. One minute. [[Voice from the room: Relax, you'll make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question maybe a little bit next to this bill, but it's in line with my position. The point is that the Minister can say in which countries we are observing this protectionism and how we are trying to deal with this protectionism, I am thinking about the countries of the European Union and countries outside the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u367	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Zbigniew Babalski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll refer briefly to the club appearances. Thank you for the declaration that the bill will be supported and accepted. This is an important signal. I would like to say that this is not just about opening up new markets, but it is also very important, but it is also important that we do not fall out of these markets. A colleague from the Civic Platform hopes that we will keep our word and that we will protect the Polish farmer, that the Polish farmer will have support. I think he did, he does, and he will. I'm pretty sure about that. As far as compliance is concerned, this is the case. The colleagues in their speeches showed that this is a simplification, not a difficulty. On the other hand, I would like to stress very clearly: if the Polish product wants to remain on the EU markets, that is what EU rules are for. If it wants to stay and enter third markets, unfortunately we have a duty to help farmers to adapt to the rules of third countries that simply accept these products. That's the philosophy, and we just have to do it. If we hadn't, it would have been a sin of omission. I would like to emphasise one more thing - the Member also pointed out this - how we will reach the producers. Notice that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019, so we have six months to reach all those farmers who are interested in going out with their product or keeping it on third markets at various types of trainings, conferences, meetings. Indeed, the chairman of the agricultural committee is going a bit beyond this law, because he also mentioned promotional funds. What I'm trying to say is that we have a little bit of a convergence here. At the moment, we are working to change the formula when it comes to using promotion funds, but nothing without those who create these funds, so it must be a very broad consultation. We have nine of these promotional funds, each year it is over PLN 50 million and we really need to start talking to the owners of these funds, i.e. mainly farmers, because they have an advantage in those committees which decide what money is to be spent on. It is simply necessary to show that the effectiveness of the money that is somehow collected by them must be much greater. I wouldn't just talk about external expenditure and external markets, let's say. I think it is also worth looking at the domestic market and here also effectively promote a good Polish product, so that it is on the shelves as much as possible. I would like to add one more thing: first of all, cooperation with the various industries is important. If we are present e.g. in Asian markets at various kinds of very large trade fairs, I assure you that there is no trip from the Ministry of Agriculture, but there is hard work there. I was not long ago in Dubai really great, probably one of the biggest markets, at trade fairs connected only and exclusively with the agricultural industry and there the Polish industry was. We're there just to help them organize bilateral meetings. There have been six meetings within two days, including four at ministerial level. There really was something to do. There is a good chance and hope to simply be sustainable in these markets, either remotely, but very attractive to us. You have mentioned, Mr President, here too, that this promotion may look too weak. If we have, practically speaking, record revenues from export of Polish food in the form of more than EUR 27 billion, this indicates that the product coming from the hands of the Polish farmer is of good quality and is gladly seen not only in the Union. The truth is, it's mostly here, but it's also on third markets. As regards matters beyond this law, I have mentioned this a little bit - as regards the protection of the external market and how We deal with countries that may be a little discriminatory towards Polish products, it is not here, let's say, the rule applied: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, but we have to deal with this whole process and try to support farmers. The fight is ruthless in terms of food, especially in terms of EU markets. We can defend ourselves and the Polish farmer - I believe it deeply - will defend itself, only and only by giving the highest quality products from Polish fields. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u369	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u370	The position of the club PSL-UED regarding the government draft law amending the Plant Protection Act and some other laws is positive. The aim of the project is primarily to simplify administrative procedures for inspections under the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development and should be supported, for example, for this reason. Improving phytosanitary safety, regulating cooperation between services and rationalising their activities are essential. Today, in the face of huge imports of food products of plant origin into Poland, it is necessary to function efficiently even the National Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection or the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles. There is a social, widespread belief that imports, for example. Ukraine is out of control. There are too few studies aimed at eliminating from the market products that may have harmful effects for Poles, let alone the huge negative impact of this food on Polish farmers and competition for many articles produced in our country. Any initiative to support the activities of food quality services therefore deserves support.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u371	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Extraordinary Commission has submitted a report on the Commission's draft law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws, print No 2648. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws (prints No. 2610 and 2648). I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws on the Commission's draft law amending the electoral code law and certain other laws, print No 2610. The Sejm at its 64th meeting on 14 June 2018 in accordance with Article 9 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws after considering this proposal adopted 11 amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club - all adopted. The Commission requests the adoption of a report, as well as a draft law, on the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u373	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. At the outset, we can say - which is very happy - that the discussion at the committee's meeting, perhaps beyond the first votes, was substantive. We are also pleased that, at the committee meeting, we could hear the voice of the President of the State Election Commission, the Minister, the Head of the National Election Office, who explained in detail why they are asking the High House for the proposed amendments. They are, too, something that needs to be said quite clearly and openly, technical changes, hence there is no breach of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling or constitution in this respect - it is whether the changes made later than six months before the elections are in breach of the Constitution - because these are not significant changes. As regards the amendments that the Extraordinary Commission has given a positive opinion, it is worth noting that they are mostly adapting, yet clarifying this novel. There is another important consequence - this is the second type of these amendments - that, in the absence of cameras, they will not be applicable to the transmission of meetings of communes, powiats or voivodship seymics. It's natural. Finally, perhaps the most important change concerns the regulation of votes by disabled people. If this is the case, it is about not taking advantage of the polling place, it should also look like such a person is voting on his election committee. Especially in small municipalities where there are small districts, it would be strange to vote outside their circuit, especially since the vast majority of committees already meet the conditions for adapting to the needs of people with disabilities. In conclusion, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u375	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the draft amendments to the electoral code. Unfortunately, the approach to proceding changes in such an important legal act as the electoral code, which guarantees transparency, fairness and efficiency of parliamentary elections, and thus the maintenance of a democratic system in every country, reflects the way the club's approach to the Law and Justice to the Sejm, to the Seym culture, to opposition, in general to draft laws. Namely, this process is carried out according to the following scheme. There's an order. or a political mandate to make specific changes to the law. This novel is then prepared instantly by writing it or preparing it on its knee, without consultation, and by submitting a message so as not to pass through the joint committee of government and government, so as not to consult this project, so that it will enter the fast path. Then, if the project turns out to be a bubble, it is modified, also in an instant way. It is only a pity that you have come to such an important law, which is the electoral code, and that you have carried out this law in an absolutely derogatory manner of parliamentarianism. First in January, I remind you, there were 260 autocorrections to the 16-article bill, and at the moment that it turned out to be a bubble, these most dramatic situations you are trying to solve with another novel. The State Election Commission and the National Election Office have signalled to you that they are not able to conduct local elections in the existing legal order, and therefore instantly, within 2 and 3 days, to carry out another amendment, which is really only powdering this bubble, is only powdering the bad, harmful changes that you voted over in January. Unfortunately, there is still a huge threat that these elections will not be well prepared and that these elections will not be conducted honestly. You have politicized the process of preparing elections, you have subjected the National Election Office and the PKW to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, you have introduced a whole range of changes which unfortunately have a negative impact on the electoral code. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club actively participated in the work on the Code of Election at the turn of the year. We have tabled many amendments, we have signalled that the electoral code in this form does not guarantee, as I said, the smooth preparation of elections. These are our comments, you have ignored the amendments. With regard to this amendment, such a shallow ad hoc amendment, we decided not to participate in this process, to exclude ourselves from this process by no longer submitting additional amendments and not really participating in the discussions on the amendments tabled by the PiS club. I declare on behalf of the club that all responsibility for the wrong preparation of local elections and subsequent elections falls to Law and Justice. Any slip-ups and any negative effects of your actions fall only on your shoulders. I follow the local government, I observe all those who will run in these elections, so that they will be very careful about how the whole procedure will proceed - first elections, then counting votes and announcing the results of elections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform Club will vote against this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u378	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You can't always have satisfaction with a smile. After all, I know you privately and I have to tell you, I am talking to my colleagues from the committee, an extraordinary committee that worked in such a great hurry from November to January... Please don't understand my comments personally, but we are just trying to see if we are leaning on the amendment to the most important legislative acts that determine the elections. And we are leaning forward, ladies and gentlemen, a few months before the election for the amendment. This is the essence of this Parliament's work and unfortunately the essence of the system's work. It is not your personal fault that this is how Parliament works. It's just that the Polish Parliament is organized in such a way that working on such serious projects can actually take place for two days, and then we're just updating it. I recall this night work, very hard, which often ended in a very substantive discussion, which unfortunately was thrown away with smiles. Unfortunately, she was often disposed of with such a little bunnish attitude. I'll be discussing this bill here in a minute. I was asking myself, because it was really the actual voices... I remember the substantive voices of Mr Walda Dzikowski, Mr Owl. There were also substantive voices from you, after all. Mr Matusiewicz very often made some of the very strange statements made by the applicants. I thought it was possible to work substantively in the Polish parliament, but when it was over, you passed this law, and unfortunately all the clubs were against it. I remember saying this sentence here: this Sejm really needs one-mandate electoral districts. There was that smile again. You laughed that you were doing everything right with the bill that we're investigating right now. You're laughing at the JOWs the same way. I know that these are the amendments suggested by the State Election Commission, because it simply suggested from the beginning that certain things could not be done. Of course, you may have been surprised by the GDPR, just to remind you that it was clear that we should have introduced GDPR since 2016. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, since 2016. However, none of the clubs raised this at the committee meeting. No one expected it to strike with that kind of force. As far as the cameras are concerned, I recall that we have said, repeatedly emphasized that such things cannot be carried out completely, because we have, as long as my memory is correct, 28,000. voting circuits. You've made a little of this beer, and I think you should drink that beer on your own. I will recommend to the club to seriously consider whether to provide support in the case of an amendment, with all awareness, because we know, read and know this law, print No.2610, that these are good solutions, only that we need to return to philosophy, our philosophy. Firstly, we failed to save one-mandate electoral districts in all places, which means that the number of municipalities where the JOWs are has decreased. Secondly, we are against this process over the electoral code. And perhaps here Andrzej Maciejewski, MEP Maciejewski said that... And anyway, I heard it's a good voice for today's committee work. I do not know whether we should simply introduce another amendment in the world, which will say that the whole code should be introduced only after the local elections, because it has already lost its original meaning and assumed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that even the Legislative Office has said, like the previous time, that some enlargements are too far-reaching. We still have two other dangerous records that you have not noticed, including the revised code, the problem of funding limits and the problem of another electoral system, because in the case of the European Parliament, I do not know if you have noticed, you have left the judicial system. We'll probably have one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the next amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I applied for the rejection of this project at first reading on behalf of the Poselski Club, I also focused on the issue of the unconstitutionality of this law. As for this, I think, absolutely no one can have any doubts. You are unable to use arguments that would counter this. I would like to remind you that, in her speech of 4 June 2018, when she asked for a codification committee, she expressed the urgent need to amend the bill's drafts, she simply states that, in the area of the electoral code, there is a need to amend cases relating to a complaint against the resolution of the State Election Commission concerning the division into the electoral district. This is one of the fundamental issues that certainly goes far beyond normal change. The second issue concerns transparency. The whole foundation, discussion, building up the message, which was done during the work from November to January, when we were working on the electoral code, was argued that this was in order to avoid future events that took place even in 2014, and to secure the evidence issue in these cases, so that the court could reasonably take decisions based on compelling evidence. Today we see that it is absolutely not going to be that what was to be secured and archived for 5 years is not going to be the basis for dealing with litigation in court. You're saying that the GDPR has thwarted your plans. No, you were never going to implement the provisions of today's law. And I will also tell you: How is it that you did not have a signal about what the Chief Data Protection Officer was doing? Why didn't he give an opinion on this project, which concerns all Poles? And after all, none other than Mr Mirosław Sanek, Deputy Head of GIODO, was nominated by Minister Brudziński as Head of the National Election Office. He was in the three of them. The person who was to take over this office. So a story like that came out suddenly... Really tell stories to children, and certainly not here, public opinion, because it's just not true. Several issues concerning matters relating to the amendment of this law. First of all, you bring in, you don't know why... I'm sorry to say this, but the applicant, although honest, was unable to justify it. If there is a local referendum, the public must be mobilized to make a threshold, and that is why they cannot be conducted together with local elections, and in the case of a national referendum, they must be connected to local elections in order to raise the electoral threshold. It doesn't add up. That argument is really failing. It's a matter of neighborhoods. Ladies and gentlemen, in Krakow in 2010 these elections were tried to separate. Statistically, 42%, 43% The inhabitants of Krakow participate in the local elections. If the elections to the district councils are held at the same time within one time frame, attendance, as in 2014, was 34% and in 2011, when the elections took place 2 months after the local elections - only 12.7%. Don't you really want people to use their own voice to choose their councilmen at every level, whether it's about the city, whether it's about the seymbre, or whether it's about the district council? Why are you putting in place records that are supposed to hold back this civic activity and not carry out actions that would increase this civic activity? That's another line. The GDPR really has nothing to do with the question of securing evidence. If there are any grounds for preventing data transmission, there is no reason for this work of the circuit boards to be archived. It can't be that the recordings can be made by men of confidence, and they can't be made by committees. Then why was the record taken before? Here's another piece. It's hard not to get the impression that you have something on your conscience that you want to use the next election to put it just under you. Anything that's supposed to increase transparency, you're pulling out of this bill just so you can't leave any potential footprints. You really can't do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Right. Therefore, the Modern Parliamentary Club will vote against the provisions of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u381	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It will become permanent here, with us in Parliament, to say that the work that took place both at the turn of the year and today was work without vision, without concept, without any idea of local government. This project passes through the Sejm like a storm, without reflection, without consulting non-governmental organisations, and above all self-government corporations, which have not even had the opportunity to stand before the committee and speak on this issue. The flagship project of the PiS club, which was intended to increase transparency, in fact limits this transparency. This was supposed to be an antidote to alleged electoral forgery, which was to be committed by the unknown in 2014, electoral forgeries that had never been proven either in court or in other proceedings, whether administrative or, as I said, judicial. After winning the parliamentary elections, you had every opportunity to check the ballots and prove those forgeries you talked about throughout the campaign. What did you do? One of the first steps you did was to destroy the ballots that could actually prove the forgery already mentioned. The question is: Why did we not spend more time on this to increase the participation of citizens and to reduce the number of null and void votes that were the basis for you to determine the 2014 false elections? Because it's no secret that in the structure of votes that don't matter 80% they're blank cards, so I don't know how to fake a card that's just empty at the end of the election process. Did we at least take a moment to think about how to increase the identification of candidates for the Sejmists, because there are the most votes void or to the counties? In the elections to the commune and the mayor, the president of these unimportant votes is hardly at all, because - as I said earlier - the identification of the candidate is very good. Mr Marek Sowa has already talked about a logical inconsistency regarding the lack of possibility for citizens to choose representatives for the council of the commune, their uncle, the mayor, the president in conjunction with the elections to the settlement council. After all, these elections are as compatible as possible, they are consistent, because they also increase social participation, because - as they have been said - they result in greater attendance. But here she is unnecessary. When needed, the national referendum joins the elections. What a twisted logic. What the author meant, you can ask. And I think the answer's coming up on its own. Perhaps the idea is to influence the electoral outcome of the ruling party through legal records. Another point worth mentioning - although it is not enough time - is the defeat of the ephemeride called the electoral officer, and in fact the political overseer who has, without trusting the local government, because there will certainly be fraudulent elections, guarding the electoral process. It turns out that most people do not want to take on such a function, especially because they are in the local government a foreign body. And finally, the number of electoral officials has been reduced from 6,000. To almost 2.5,000. And maybe he'll stick his knee to that number somehow. Therefore, the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, seeing the direction in which changes in the electoral code are going, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He will vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u383	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, is the first question to be asked. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u384	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth recalling in this debate that elections are the most important link of democracy, and changes in electoral law cannot be carried out later than 6 months before the elections. This principle formulated by the Constitutional Tribunal is being broken today. The opposition won't put a hand in it. The matter is now as clear as the sun: it is the PiS fully, 100% has full responsibility for how local elections will be held. It was the Minister of the Interior and Administration of the PiS government who pointed out the candidate and candidate to be head of the National Election Office. Today you are introducing some kind of prosthesis, but the bill does not provide adequate safeguards for social observers, men of confidence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are calling for people to look at your hands in every election commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u385	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u386	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! These chaotic recipes need to be changed after a few months. And yet the opposition said that the project you were preparing was just a legal thing, and you just didn't have to bring it in. The provisions of the GDPR in the European Union have been discussed for more than 4 years, and already in January it was known that on 25 May these provisions would enter into force. And you knew it. You guys knew about this, except it's a deliberate action, so that it just doesn't have that surveillance camera in the polls. And it won't. Interesting. Are you scared of something? We'll see. I hope that these elections will be held smoothly, because I care that elected local governments are in normal, legal elections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I hope those self-governments who will be the best, not pointed out by the PiS, win. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u388	Thank you again. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law provides for the extension of the circle of persons with the capacity to act as electoral officer. It is known that there would be a need for 5.5.5.9 thousand of them, and so many who were willing until 6 April this year were not. The question to the rapporteur, because in the absence of a government side... This also shows the frivolous attitude of the government towards the above-mentioned bill. The question to the rapporteur is whether this bill's novel is intended to cover up the failures of the electoral code that you made a few months ago. The second question concerns precisely Article. 1 § 1 point 2, i.e. other persons having at least 5 years of service in offices or units referred to in point 1. Aren't you afraid that people who do have five years in office work will come forward, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but no longer pursue the profession of administrative staff for years and lack the current knowledge to carry out these duties reliably? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This whole process of amending the law after just a few months shows the process of creating law by PiS in Poland, a chaotic process, unfortunately without knowledge, little that without knowledge, without imagination also. An example is these cameras and recording the whole voting process and counting votes. Well, if someone had an imagination, they would realize that this is technically and formally impossible. It's been warned against it. If it were not, I think that the PiS could, however, install those cameras, from which the transmission would not necessarily be transmitted, but it could actually have an archived process as evidence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, this did not happen, therefore the question is: Will you ever admit that you have neither knowledge nor imagination? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u391	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that there are at least two issues to be raised, and that is why I am also addressing my questions to the Member of the applicant. I deeply regret what you are doing, what your leader has done before. Trying to tell citizens, telling local governments that they can be... somehow, the integrity of elections can be threatened, it's just a scandal and it's unworthy. Hence my question: Isn't it so that in every election commission representatives of all clubs who have representation in parliament and in the parliament will have their place, so at the start of the 5-1 advantage for the opposition? So how Law and Justice would fake these choices remains a sweet secret to me. The second issue concerns the registration of elections by men of confidence. Isn't that right? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think they'll be able to do that in time from shutting down the premises to handing over the protocols? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u393	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No one can have any doubt that the PiS loves cloudy water and likes chaos because in chaos it feels best. In chaos things can happen, and no one will notice, and that's why you need this amendment. Now I have a question. Where are the Members of the applicant, the authors of these projects from November, besides Mr Schreiber? You can't see any. Today they won't admit that anything has to do with this bill. Where is the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, where is Minister Brudziński, where is Minister Chezernaker? After all, they politically subjugated the electoral administration. After all, Minister Brudziński gave the list to over 140 people, one of whom became the head of the National Election Office and others became commissioners and political governors. You may be offended when we talk about them like that, but that's the reality. Where are they? If you think the chaos in the election isn't gonna burden you, then I guarantee you're wrong, it's your responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u395	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions about these changes and this bill. Namely the first: Why do you rule out holding elections at the same time to the village councils? However, housing councils are an important element of local democracy, because even in the Warsaw districts of 200,000. residents or more there are many settlement councils. It is a great facilitation for the residents that during these local elections they can also conduct the elections of the council of settlements. Organizing these elections of settlement councils in other terms, otherwise it is simply and expensive, and organisationally difficult, and it is simply a handicap to the functioning of local democracy. The second issue is a variety of local referendums. In many countries it is the practice that local referendums are held during local or local elections on various local cases. Why should this be excluded from our home? This, in turn, is also an obstacle to the functioning of democracy at local level. Third question. Will election observers receive a copy of the minutes in the election committees? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is very important that these copies of the protocols can be obtained immediately after counting the results. After the committee has signed, the observer may receive or photograph a copy of such a protocol.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u397	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u398	Is that gonna be possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u399	Thank you very much. I would ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicant, the Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes, I cannot agree with the repeated argument here. It is as if a part of the country that is members of the Extraordinary Commission on changes to the electoral law legislation introduced today was not at the meeting of this committee. First question: unconstitutionality. Clearly, it wasn't just me who said that the rules of the electoral code could be changed six months before the election order was issued. The same position was taken in the discussion by the President of the State Election Commission. [[Hermelinsky.]] ... Wojciech Hermeliński, former judge of the Constitutional Court, who also ruled on this motion by Members regarding the 2011 electoral code when the Constitutional Tribunal declared two-day elections to be non-constitutional. The changes that are being made to this amendment are not significant changes, they are not systemic changes. The changes in the system could include changes in districts from multi-ndat to mono-mandate, if we introduce this in all elections to local self-government units. There were such proposals from the Kukiz Group15, but as far as other opposition clubs are concerned, there was no support either, there was no enthusiasm for these proposals. So during the process of the previous amendment, this January, we introduced changes concerning monomandate districts in municipalities up to 20,000. The derivative of this was over 180 amendments. You are accusing us that there were 260 amendments, but basically only 17 were substantive. They were still legislative. This amendment - I repeat this once again - concerns an incidental, irrelevant case. The first thing is that there will be no direct transmission from the polling station. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that these provisions have already been in force, because the implementation of the directive of 27 April 2016 was 2 years old, Poland was in place by that date. On 25 May, the Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the Sejm on 10 May came into force and only then did this problem arise because of the letter from the President, the General Data Protection Officer of the State Election Commission. The State Election Commission has taken such a position, not another, and has requested this amendment. It was an amendment that was simply addressed to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, where we also have a subcommittee on the electoral code. Another thing that is constantly raised here is to talk about breaking the constitution. I think we all know when there's a constitutional violation. That's when the Constitutional Tribunal will rule. And for these eight years of joint legislative work of the PO-PSL coalition today, there are 40 laws where the Constitutional Tribunal has declared your laws unconstitutional. Sometimes they are single articles, sometimes several or several. And it's a violation of the constitution, it was a violation of the constitution at the time, and now there's a presumption of unconstitutionality. If they're like that... They were also in force earlier, sir. Don't laugh like that, Mr... [[In what mode?]] ...was an old Lidzbark. If you're laughing like that, I'll answer you... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...with the words of the Bishop of Lidzbar Ignacy Krasicki, who, in Monachomachia, whose action happens in Przemyśl, wrote: "And laughter can sometimes be a science,/ When it comes out of discontent, it does not shake people;/ I joke witty seasoned with art/ Salvation, when it pinches rather than bites. I'm going back to answering your questions. As far as men of confidence are concerned, they, Mr Szczerba, will have the power to use the recording equipment and sound to carry out these activities throughout the duration of the vote, as well as later, in determining the results of the vote. They even have such an extended entitlement that they can accompany persons who will carry protocols for determining the results of voting in individual circuits to the municipal office, where there will be a collective determination of voting results from a given municipality in the case of, above all, the elections of a wójta, but this is also the way in the municipalities when it comes to elections to a sejm or to the county council. As regards the mode of action, I would like to say that this mode of action was in the code adopted in January 2011 as well as in this January 2018 amendment, only that we simplify and simplify so that these matters can be handled more quickly. In principle, it can be said that in certain provisions, Article. 12, there is not even a two-instance, because there is a tri-instance, because this is the case: since the resolution of the commune council is entitled to a complaint to the State Election Commission, the State Election Commission will be entitled to a complaint to the Supreme Administrative Court and three judges will be adjudicated on these matters in an accelerated manner. They don't have to set a hearing, they can do it in a private session. And these will be final decisions. Mr Święcicki raised the question of election to the housing council and the issue of local referendums, the question of why this is not carried out together. Well, sir, since you were also a self-government officer, you were the president of Warsaw's capital city, I think you know that such regulations have been in operation since 1990 and that this is not connected. Local referendums are not linked to municipal council elections, nor are municipal council elections or city councils linked to settlement council elections. It's just that the newly elected counsel has time to call elections to these auxiliary units. Local, residential or, by transferring it to the level of the municipal council, the issues of the town are sometimes incidental, completely local - mostly road repairs or some small investment projects such as the renovation of the firehouse - and the subject of the election campaign should be matters relevant to the municipality, which are intended to testify to its development - building development strategies and instruments to do so. So that I think it's a pretty good thing to separate it. When it comes to electoral officials - and that was also the question - I have already said this before. Ladies and gentlemen, why is it that these electoral officials are missing in Western and Northern voivodships, and in the southeast there is a set of electoral officials? It can be seen that, where local governments, their executive bodies are made up of representatives of the United Right, somehow these electoral officials can agree to commute to the neighbouring commune. As there are few of them, that about 200 are missing, we have such a solution that we give the head of the National Election Office the power to appoint an official in such situations not for 6 years, as in the case of the majority, only, you could say, ad hoc, for specific elections. So now these officials will be appointed where they will be missed if these regulations enter into force. And there was another issue here, but it is not too much the subject of this amendment - because there were questions that went completely beyond the scope of this amendment - so I think there is no need to answer in this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u401	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. To the third... [[I was corrected because the Member spoke to me.]] There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u402	Yes, sir. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, To you and to your colleagues I quote from Alexander Fredra: It is not wise to speak wisely, but the greatest - to do wisely. [[Old Lidzbarsky.]] You've given a lot of wisdom here, your colleagues. There is no doubt, however, that these wisdoms are not followed by action. You were talking about the Constitutional Court. But you did not publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal taken correctly. Then you politicized, pacified the Constitutional Tribunal. So today, referring to the Constitutional Tribunal sounds crazy. Both the government of PO-PSL and the parliamentary majority respected the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and if it stated that any provisions of the law or law were not in full conformity with the Constitution, it was amended, the amendments were made. But what is your approach? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Constitutional Tribunal, sees the whole of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u403	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw (prints no. 2450 and 2619). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth published in print No. 2619 on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw contained in print No. 2450. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading on 13 April 2018. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after first reading and considering this draft and adopting one amendment at its meeting on 7 June 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u405	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Lidia Burzyńska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the creation of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw, print no 2450. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the principles of the above project, a medical course operating within the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński is to be established in Warsaw. The establishment of a medical course at the university mentioned above was already planned many months earlier. In 2014, at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, a very modern laboratory centre was established, providing facilities for basic research in the field of medical sciences. In 2016, the Virtual Anatomy and Surgical Simulation Centre was established. John Paul II. In other fields of education, there are some medical courses that are highly popular among students. In addition, agreements have been signed with different medical centres and a programme has been developed that involves training students at the highest level in the world. The degree of progress of the work and the involvement of the university authorities confirm the need for the establishment of this unit. It is undoubtedly the university's lobbyists who are best acquainted with the needs of students in the field of education. This project also deserves support for typical social reasons. The number of doctors in Poland is steadily increasing year by year, but this increase is disproportionate to the increase in the demand for doctors, including specialists. In addition, according to data from the central register of doctors kept by the General Chamber of Medicine, in Poland for about 172 thousand. doctors and dentists engaged in more than 85 thousand occupations. is over 50 years of age. Given that the retirement age in Poland is 60 years for women and 65 years for men, it should be estimated that about half of the doctors currently employed in 15 years will retire. Meanwhile, in Poland about 4 thousand. Every year, people graduate from medical school. In such a situation, it is justified and necessary to create new medical destinations, and this is what the project envisages. It is also worth noting that the desire of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University is that the education of the newly established medical department should be based on high ethical standards. To this end, the university worked closely with the Gemella Clinic in Rome, which is part of the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Milan. Creating new directions and medical departments is a good response to the increased demand for various types of medical services in Poland. This also increases the possibility for those who wish to undertake such studies. If all this is combined with sufficiently high ethical standards, it will be very beneficial for both future and current doctors as well as for patients. The project has a positive social impact in terms of increasing the number of doctors and thus the availability of medical services. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on the creation of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u407	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Kinga Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u408	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This draft law on the amendment of the law aims to create a medical orientation conducted in a separate unit of the College Medicum, operating within the framework of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw. Its implementation will enable the training of doctors and persons in other medical professions and the conduct of scientific research in the field of medical sciences. We all care about training doctors. Although initially we had doubts about this project, because it looked like a special treatment for one Catholic university, we were assured that in Law 2.0 which we are currently discussing in committee, these formal obstacles, which were only a legislative error, will be resolved systematically. We were convinced not only by providing the rector of the university, but, above all, by talking about the desire to develop and educate medicine in the capital and to sign many agreements with the institutions mentioned earlier by the Member. Plans to start medical education at the university, starting from the following academic year, i.e. 2018/2019, were established many months ago. In the final stage of the work on the drafting of the formal dossier, the proposal has indeed created formal obstacles resulting from the wording of the Article. 11 Law on Higher Education in the context of the revision of the regulation on standards of education for studies: medical, dental, pharmacy, nursing and obstetrics. As I said before, it was just a legislative error, a small legislative error. It follows from the wording of the provision that the basic organizational unit of the university can establish studies on a general academic profile if the studies conducted in this field of the first or second degree received a positive opinion of the quality of the Polish Accreditation Board and the medical course is conducted only in the form of a uniform master's degree. This is why, for example, the requirement to have a positive opinion of the Polish Accreditation Board when introducing them in the form of first or second degree studies in this direction is required. It's not technically feasible. All this means that under the current provisions of the Law on Higher Education, it is not possible for the UKSW to apply for permission to start a medical course. As Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this bill. We believe, trust the ministry, that already in this bill, which we are currently investigating, this formal problem is resolved and we will vote on it at the next meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u409	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Marek Ruciński on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member, but above all as a doctor, I have repeatedly drawn attention to the growing staff problems in the Polish health system. In a dozen years, when many of today's specialists are retired, medical personnel may not be available in Poland. Young doctors who are now working too hard and accepted hourly standards will not be able to complete the staff shortages. Today's draft law on amending the Act on the creation of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw is an attempt to find a simple solution to this problem. Of course, I understand the idea of wanting to increase the number of medical students in Poland, because an ageing society must have guaranteed access to healthcare. At the same time - I am based on my own experience - I am familiar with the difficulties of medical studies. I mean not only the high demands that students face, but also the expectations of the entire staff of academic teachers, which is to prepare future doctors to work with patients as best as possible. This awareness of the requirements of universities and staff also makes the above. However, the project raises a number of concerns. In its opinion, the Chief Medical Council points out that in the proposed solutions, in the absence of control of the quality of education by the Polish Accreditation Commission, it is not possible to maintain the educational outcomes at a level which guarantees the maintenance of European education standards. When we undertake actions aimed at increasing the number of doctors in Poland, we must be primarily concerned with patient safety. I am afraid that if we decide to circumvent the standards of accreditation by debating the medical faculty at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, then guaranteeing proper care for patients may be at risk. We are, of course, fully open to the idea of starting medical courses at subsequent universities, but the condition for our support for these initiatives is to meet all the requirements related to this, which are set out in separate regulations. If the university representatives and the applicants decide to withdraw the project, they will eliminate the doubts that all the parties who have consulted the law have indicated, and will again apply for a medical course at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, you can count on the full support of this initiative from our club. At present, however, the creation of a potentially dangerous precedent - despite the legitimate ideas of the applicant - cannot be accepted. Therefore, the Modern will vote against the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u411	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project responds to the shortage of doctors, medical staff, to the difficult situation faced by Polish patients, waiting in queues, looking for hope in various medical centres. The data that were quoted in the statements of my previous speakers clearly show how much it is necessary to create new medical directions. This is a chance for thousands of students to get, of course in a few years, a good profession, and for tens, hundreds of thousands of patients. This is a chance for faster access to medical care at the highest level. It is good that there are spaces, ladies and gentlemen, in which there is a continuation, because I would like to remind you that these are not the first and these are not new proposals for the creation of medical departments. During our coalition, the Faculty of Medicine was established at the University of Jan Kochanowski in Kielce, at the University of Rzeszów, at the University of Zielona Góra, and this process continues. This indicates that in these politically difficult times something can continue and not change the direction of action, which is simply as rational as possible. Today is the request of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University to appoint a Collegium Medicum. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Club of the Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats, this conclusion is very well founded. I understand at least part of Mr Ruciński's doubts, but I would still encourage reflection on this. I realize we'd like everything to be from margin to margin. It's not always gonna be possible for everything to be perfectly prepared. But the medical needs mentioned by Mr Ruciński are not fully implemented today and will not be met if there are no doctors. If 50% doctors, if 85,000. Doctors out of 172,000 who have the right to be a doctor and dentist are over 50 years of age, cannot wait. The withdrawal of this law would certainly prolong the whole process of creating a new medical department. This department, whose creation, in my opinion, demonstrates responsibility for the future fate of Polish health services, created at the university, which is prepared for comprehensive training in humanities, science, but also in medical science in the medical field, is simply needed in Poland. There are really a lot of young people who are trying, and they have very good results on high school, get into medical direction. Not all parents and their own parents can afford paid studies, which are among the most expensive in Poland, so if there is space for young people to be able not only to pursue their ambitions and plans, but actually to expand the group of people prepared to help, then this project simply needs to be supported. We welcome the cooperation with various medical centres, with various hospitals in Warsaw, as well as with Gemella Clinic in Rome. This is not only about ethical standards, they are of course always extremely important in professions that carry as much responsibility as the profession of doctor, but also about good theoretical preparation that will be provided at the university, but also good practical preparation, and practice is acquired only in hospitals, and in hospitals that receive hundreds of patients on a daily basis. This project has a chance, maybe not to the extent that we would. expected, changed the functioning of medicine in Poland. This is another step - as I said at the outset - to expand the number of medical faculties in Poland. Of course, it can be said that the demographic collapse in health care will not be broken by this, but without this action there will certainly be no change in the demographic collapse. However, this is not enough, it must also be a smart migration policy in this area and opening up further medical courses. The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u413	Thank you very much. Four Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński is a university with great ambitions and is constantly growing in various rankings, including various departments. I welcome it with optimism that such a university in Warsaw operates, that there is some competition, because there are other universities in Warsaw, and that this university is developing well. However, the medical department's project is, I would say, a particularly ambitious challenge, both from this point of view, that it is necessary to be responsible for the level of education of these doctors, i.e. patients whom they will then treat, as well as for certain requirements concerning the quality of teaching staff, equipment, university equipment, etc. Well, I wanted to ask if, at the committee meeting, when it was discussed, there were any arguments, any evidence or reasons, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that these conditions of high quality of teaching will be met. Can you share such materials with the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u415	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few hours ago, we discussed here that the law on higher education needs to be amended, because Polish universities are still in the first thousand, but quite low. This college comes out with a project, with a very innovative proposal. We need internationalisation, and that's what he's proposing. We need cooperation with institutions, and that's what he's proposing. There are many other things to say. During the committee meeting, a university employee presented a very long list of publications in the field of medicine or paramedics, related areas, and extremely long. The rector presented a long list of employees, a professor who would sit and work in this college. So you can only be happy, congratulations. If we put it on the balance, on the one hand, minimal [[♪ The bell ♪]] formal failure, which is to be removed and, on the other hand, extremely carefully... Mr. Marshal, I'll just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u417	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u418	...a very carefully prepared project, we do not imagine that it will not result, maybe not immediately, but in the future, with excellent results, and is so much needed socially... It's hard not to say we're very happy and congratulate...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u419	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u420	...that this college... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u421	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! In this room, a few months ago, there were disgraceful words. During the debate about the situation of medical residents, one of the messengers said to residents: let them go, to all those who considered labour migration, when the Polish state does not provide them with adequate financial conditions to prepare for the profession. Today we are talking about the need for training in medical sciences. There are no doctors in Warsaw, there are no nurses, there are no medical staff. This is a problem, I think, of all the large agglomerations. In Warsaw we have fantastic The Warsaw Medical University with the right base, the right scientific and research potential, but of course with great openness we take any further initiative that can ensure an increase in the number of medical staff in the future. But of course we are aware that all standards should be met, and I hope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the standards will be met by the university.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u423	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this initiative. The initiative is therefore important because the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński is developing very strongly, very well educates young people in many directions, including in the medical direction. It is very important that the university, which, in addition to the transfer of knowledge, is also based on values, transmits values. This direction - the medical direction - at such a university, where in addition to knowledge are very important values, is very necessary and important for future doctors. Therefore, I would like to congratulate the university, as well as the rector on the decision concerning this very serious step, a step important for Poland. I wish that as many doctors as possible will be educated in this direction, who will take care of health and life from birth to natural death. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u425	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the creation of the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw after the work on this project in committee. Our country's demography is clear. We're a fast-aging society. Therefore, our need for medical services is rapidly increasing. Along with the increase in the population of older people, there should be an increase in the number of medical professionals. Insufficient number of places at universities in medical fields and the tendency of graduates to work abroad after graduation are reasons why in Poland specialists are getting less and less. There is no doubt that it is in our social interest to take appropriate steps to counter this negative trend. Today we are investigating a law which provides for the creation of a medical course conducted in an isolated unit, i.e. Collegium Medicum, operating within the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw. In practice, it will allow the training of doctors and persons in other medical professions and research into medical sciences. For this project, university authorities have been preparing for years. Cooperation has been undertaken with many individuals who have been working successfully in this area for years and are leading Polish medical centers such as: Military Medical Institute, Central Clinical Hospital of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or Institute of Cardiology. The Primate of the Millennium Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Anina. International cooperation was also undertaken, among others. with the Gemella Clinic in Rome, part of the University of the Sacred Heart in Milan. The UKSW requires that the department of the Virtual Anatomy and Surgical Simulation Centre has been established in order to open the medical direction for the future in its structure. It has been ensured that the new course meets the conditions of quality of education. The fact is that medicine is an area in our country where we already lack qualified people and we need them as much as possible. About Free and Solidarni will therefore support the further process of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u427	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and certain other laws (prints No. 2575 and 2618). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on Hunting Law and some other laws, print No 2575. The Marshal of the Sejm on 4 June 2018 sent the above draft law to the first reading. On 7 and 13 June, the joint committees met, the first reading took place and the present draft was examined. The main purpose of the Act is to modify the current model by providing voivodship advisory services with tasks relating to the estimation of hunting damage and the determination of compensation for this purpose assigned to municipalities or ancillary bodies. During the examination of the draft law, discussions were held and amendments were tabled to allow the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture or Agricultural Chambers to assess the damage. The Commission accepted three amendments and 16 rejected them. The proposed law will improve the estimation of hunting damage. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are asking the High Sejm to approve the proposed bill. Commissions, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, submit 16 minority applications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u429	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting and some other laws, presented in print no. 2575. It is a parliamentary initiative aimed at making small, although quite significant changes to the Act of 22 March 2018. The presentation of opinions on behalf of the club has always been and is a great honor and honour for me, but today, knowing the seriousness of the subject, it is also a great challenge because it concerns several social groups, large social groups, and in fact indirectly all Poles. In view of the practical problems associated with the implementation of the mechanism for estimating the hunting damage that has been enshrined in the said Act, a group of Members proposed to modify it by handing over the tasks assigned to the municipalities or their auxiliary bodies in relation to the estimation of the hunting damage and determining the amount of compensation for this purpose to the voivodship agricultural advisory centres. The consequence of this change is the inclusion in the hunting injury assessment team alongside the representative of the manager or the owner of the hunting circuit and the owner or owner of the agricultural land where the damage occurred, the representative of the voivodship agricultural advisory centre responsible for the place of the damage. Such a proposal is intended to provide an impartial and substantive solution to ongoing conflicts in assessing the damage to hunting and to ascertain the amount of compensation for this purpose. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even though hunting damage is estimated to be the most accurate, it all breaks down to find the sources of their funding. Money is the most common cause of conflict. This is why, in view of the need to provide funding for decisions on hunting damages, the draft law proposes the introduction of an obligation to allocate forest funds derived from debts, penalties and charges related to the exclusion from forest land production and claims resulting from compensation for early logging under the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands, related to the production of forests not owned by the State Treasury and forests in the use of perpetual national parks. The above money is also intended to provide funding for salaries of employees of voivodship agricultural advisory centers participating in the estimation of hunting damages... [[It's just that.]] ...and determine the amount of compensation for these damages. However, in order to fulfil the new financial tasks of the Forest Fund, it will be necessary to conclude agreements with the Director-General of State Forest Farms, which will lay down the rules for the flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of implementing the abovementioned. tasks, while the lump sum is to be determined by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for the environment. Such a solution will seriously burden the forest fund and therefore the proposal for a transfer of the existing tasks of the forest fund to finance certain activities of national parks as defined in the article appeared in the draft of this law. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (4) and their conversion from mandatory to optional tasks. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment proposed today fundamentally changes the quality of the estimation of hunting damage. We believe that the solutions set out therein will improve and speed up the completion of the necessary activities in such a way that all the environments will be satisfied. In conclusion, it should be stressed that these changes will not increase expenditure in the budget of the State and the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of their implementation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u431	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss during the second reading the amendment of the Hunting Law and some other laws from print no. 2575. Dear colleagues from Law and Justice! It's because of your booze that we meet again about hunting law. It was you who, in the form proposed by Anna Paluch, who tabled the amendment that you are withdrawing from today. Because it was you who proposed in an amendment to the Hunting Law to enter units of local government, and we immediately told you that this would be a huge blowout. And today it's confirmed. You're making an amendment to the Hunting Law law, where you put agricultural advisory centers in place of the local government. And I want to tell you that we, as a Civic Platform club, have also tabled an amendment on this issue, because we believe that it is the agricultural chambers that are best placed to value the damage and will take care of it, precisely the farmer who will lose money. That is why the appropriate amendments that you rejected were made, but these will be minority proposals. But one more thing, very important. You want it, you say it like you care about the farmers, you think that this estimate of damage can happen without the farmer. This is simply unacceptable and that is why we also make an amendment to delete this... [[Oh, no.]] ...a point from the draft law, because the farmer, the landlord, must be present when assessing the damage. Another thing we think is that you're doing it again at the expense of national parks, because you don't respect nature. Once again, at the expense of national parks, you want to take money and pay for farm advice. That is why we have tabled an amendment so that already from the existing place, the paragraph, as far as the forest fund is concerned, because it is already written about the training related to the assessment of damage, this money goes. You don't want it again, you want to rob national parks again. That's why we're counting on your goodwill, and we're counting on you to accept minority proposals even as your own at third reading. We will gladly give you this palm priority, because it is important that the farmer's damage, which is done by animals, is quickly valued and paid for. Therefore, we very much ask the High House to accept the amendments of the Civic Platform. The Civic Platform Club, meeting to relieve local governments that are not prepared for such a function, to estimate damage, will not be against this law. And at the same time, we stress that the law you are preparing will not work again, so we ask you very much to acknowledge the amendments made by the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u433	Thank you. Ms Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will speak. Oh, excuse me, before that, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u434	Minister! Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Hunting Law Act and certain other laws. Since the beginning of the term of office, the Sejm has been working on an amendment to the Hunting Law, but the positive effects are still not visible. Currently, the point of dispute is the composition of the team appointed to estimate the damage to hunting, to which the chiefs were included, apart from the representative of the manager or the owner of the hunting circuit and the owner or owner of the agricultural land. There is no doubt that the chiefs play a very important role in the lives of every local community. The Chief takes care of the interests of the rural community. It is a link between the inhabitants of its village and the authorities of the municipality. The chiefs are passionate people, socialists, people who combine work with activity for the benefit of citizens. The revised Law on Hunting Law, which entered into force on 1 April by the amendment of Mrs Anna Paluch, imposed further obligations on the Chiefs - estimation of hunting damage. Worse still, a very heavy obligation has been imposed on those who do not have experience or adequate competence to assess the damage caused to crops and agricultural foetuses. I would also like to draw attention to the total lack of preparation for the entry into force of the legislation. The law began to apply from 1 April, although the chiefs were not trained and the estimation itself was carried out according to the old guidelines, as no implementing rules have yet been issued. The chiefs also drew attention to imprecise rules. Today's Act proposes that the duties of the Councils be taken over by representatives of the provincial agricultural advisory centers. In my opinion, it's another misguided idea. Several letters have been received by the Committee on Agriculture, from which it is clear that years of extremely modest remuneration for ODR workers have led to the departure of the most valuable workers and numerous staff shortages. Yesterday, during the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, I tabled amendments that require representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to be entrusted with the obligation to estimate hunting damage. I believe that the Agency is an appropriate institution that meets its tasks, because it has a qualified staff team, appropriate competences and trust, which is appropriate to the public institution. I would also add that ARiMR employs more than 11 thousand. employees. It is the largest paying agency in Europe. Over the years, this growing workforce has been needed because of the reluctance of previous governments to properly promote the submission of electronic applications to farmers. Since this year, the situation has changed dramatically, which will release more than 40% in my opinion. staff from the tedious writing of paper-based applications to the electronic system. In addition, the bill does not eliminate numerous shortcomings of the law adopted on 22 March, such as: interference in the self-government of the Polish Association of Hunters and violations of the right of parents to raise children according to their own beliefs, as well as the right of children to privacy. Therefore, I kindly ask Members to reflect deeply on the direction of the changes made and to consider whether the representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will not perform in a better way the important task of estimating hunting damage. Thank you. [[What if you vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u435	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u436	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions which entered into force on 1 April this year, an assessment of the hunting damage is to be made by a team consisting of a representative of the municipality responsible for the place of injury, a representative of the manager or a tenant of the hunting district and the owner or owner of the agricultural land in which the damage occurred. The amendment of the Law on Hunting Law has become necessary - let's add that this is the third one in the case of compensation - because there have been many voices of opposition from the National Association of Soltys, the Association of Rural Communities of the Republic of Poland and the National Council of Agricultural Chambers and from the Councils personally. The Chiefs are not obliged to be experts in the estimation of hunting damage. Many of them just don't know it. There was a strong refusal by the chiefs to participate in the injury assessment process. As a result, some have announced that their function will be abandoned. The Council may authorise the estimation of representatives of agricultural chambers, hunters from other hunting circles or other experts in the assessment of damage, but it is very difficult to find a person who will regularly, according to demand, estimate the damage in a given area without financial coverage in practice. In order for this process to work properly, training, possible additional salaries and, consequently, funding would be needed. The Board of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers indicated that there were no adequately trained people. He also stressed that the chiefs refused to participate in the evaluation process and that the mayor or the president had no legal capacity. Therefore, it will transfer this obligation to voivodship agricultural advisory centres, as the projector proposes, or to agricultural chambers is simply a necessity. But we have another problem on this project. It concerns the financing of the hunting damage assessment process. As we read in the explanatory memorandum: to ensure a sufficient amount of resources in the forestry fund, it is proposed to postpone the existing tasks of the forestry fund to finance specific activities of national parks as defined in Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (4) of the mandatory tasks for optional tasks. In the course of the work on the project in committee, the Environment Minister explained that the funds to be allocated to national parks from the resources of the forestry fund, and as a result of this amendment will not be complementary to the national environmental fund, but there is no provision or legal act that would secure the figures for national parks by NFOŚ. As is well known, national parks, which are the highest form of nature conservation in Poland, are permanently underfunded. A major problem in this context is the very low earnings of employees of national parks. Moreover, such changes in the law contribute to the development of a worrying trend in our country, which results in the fact that new national parks no longer arise and existing ones are not adequately protected. We therefore do not see the possibility of supporting this project, which could result in a weakening of national parks. It is necessary to add a provision or to create another guarantee which will, without a shadow of a doubt, secure resources for national parks to a degree not less than before. For a reminder: the forest fund was created for the restoration of forests, e.g. After natural disasters. We don't remember it at all, and we're spending all this money on anything but this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Let's give it a big round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u437	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u438	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! When a few weeks ago, here in this courtroom, I paid attention to the errors in the bill, to the fact that it is impossible that the chiefs will not be able to estimate the damage that you will bring in a huge chaos and a mess, no one has even leaned over it. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there has not been any great disturbance in the matter of hunting damages is due only to the socialists, the hunters, who have not applied the law that you have passed. A few weeks ago, Minister Kowalczyk also wrote not to apply the bill, which you presented a few weeks earlier, and which you were investigating. I have such a strong belief that you do not have the idea that you want to accidentally change the Hunting Law every time. And worst of all, you tricked the farmers. In almost 2,5 years there were three laws, actually three proposals for the assessment of damage, but these laws were much, much more. Let me remind you that first you promised to set up a compensation fund. Voivodeship officials would estimate hunting damage. It was supposed to cost about PLN 150 million. Therefore, I ask myself, where did these 10 million zlotys come from, where is the amount of costs to be borne by the ODRs today. It's gonna cost about 10 million. What makes such a big difference? Voivodeship officials - 150 million, ODR employees - 10 million. I would also like to say that you have deceived the hunters. For the 2015 elections you went under the banners of defending the Polish model hunting model. And you can congratulate yourselves because this year the first attempt on Polish hunting turned out to be unsuccessful. But I don't know if it's the last one. Minister Jurgiel has already announced that he will demand the liquidation of the Polish Hunting Union. Why? Because he can't handle African swine fever. There was supposed to be a quality exchange of ministers in the government: the minister of prof. Szyszka was mentioned as Minister of Kowalczyk. And I was thinking that at least Minister Szyszka could have discussed it with you. He had an idea. He had a line. It was possible to disagree with his decisions, but he knew what he was trying to do. But here we are dealing with some chaos. Today, one bill, in three minutes, the second bill, and we pretend there was no bill. That's the law, ladies and gentlemen, at least it shouldn't create. All this time, I confirm that the bill that we made in March this year is bullshit. It has been challenged to the Constitutional Court by Members of PSL, Kukiz and many other Members. Today we are amending the Hunting Damage Act, but in the coming months we will again have to change the Hunting Law Act, because it is unconstitutional, hits the parental rights and self-government of social organizations. Therefore, I think that we will talk again in this Chamber about the Polish model of hunting. Today you are eliminating Polish cynology, Polish falconry, but I hope that soon the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will force you to change your decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And how do you vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u439	Thank you very much. Three Members joined the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, the Law and Justice Club, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Mr President, what is the reason why we are updating this law so quickly? Will the proposed amendment contribute to a more efficient assessment of the damage? Will the representatives of the voivodship agricultural advisory centers manage this task? And why is it that a farmer doesn't have to be present when assessing the damage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u441	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no Minister for Agriculture, but I hope that the rapporteur will answer this question, which I have already asked several times. It's about vacations in ODRs. As soon as the bill went to the Sejm, I wrote a letter to the Minister with the same question. I have heard a lot of voices that there are no employees in the ODRs, and people don't want to work there because of very poor funding. And now we want a government institution that doesn't have any employees, to entrust a very important thing: an estimate of the damage. If there are no employees there, we'll have trouble estimating the damage again, and there will be great dissatisfaction in the country. Please inform me about the deficiencies in the ODRs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u443	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last club appearance we heard the complaining, why in 2.5 years we presented three solutions. I therefore have a question for you. Why haven't you presented a coherent solution for eight years of your governments? After all, farmers have been complaining, complaining for years about the lack of adequate compensation estimates. Why didn't you lift a finger in this regard for eight years? [[You promised this country. And what are you doing now?]] Would you like to hear it, Madame? I listened patiently. Second line. The question was why this solution with voivodeship structures is to cost PLN 100 million, and the solution using ODR forces is to cost only PLN 10 million. It is obvious, Madam Member. This is a solution closer to the municipalities. There is a representative of the farm advisory centre in each municipality. Voivodeships or their employees would have to go away. We're looking for a good solution. Why don't you cooperate with us, just beat the foam? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Was that a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u445	Thank you. Now he's asked for the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry... The Minister doesn't want to speak. I understand that the representatives of the applicants also... [[They're here, ……]] Yes? [[If you'll allow the marshal, they are.]] Well, that's short, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u446	I'll try very hard. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to respond to some of the charges that have been filed here, because I think these charges are unlawful. Why won't the farmer be on the estimate? Ladies and gentlemen, if you knew a little bit about how the estimation works right now, you would know that at this point the farmer doesn't have to be in the estimation either. It's not new, and it's for the good of the farmer. Very often the hunter goes to the field to estimate, and the farmer works. If he estimates well and the farmer agrees, there's no problem, he doesn't have to be there. It's important that this is well estimated. That's how it works so far. I don't understand why you guys are doing a plarum around this right now. I think you're just trying to foam and say it's bad. Why not the communes, not the chiefs? Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to be clear here, because it is also important to be honest: I think that, yes, it was a mistake that it was the chiefs, that it was a duty to be the chiefs. But in some municipalities, the mobs solved this very wisely and appointed an employee in the municipalities. The municipalities were doing very well. Personally, I would be in favour of leaving this estimate to the municipalities, not the Councils. I don't think that would be a mistake at all. But we know that the Rural Union and the communes have opposed, they don't want this solution, which is why we're looking for another solution. The Civic Platform says: agricultural chambers. Darlings, if the chiefs aren't, because they're a social role, why should the councillors of the agricultural chambers do it well if they're also doing their social roles? A little sense in the proposals. I understand that you can be against it, you can propose because there is a right to it, but it takes some sense. Again Civic Platform and Polish People's Party: we have been working on this for the third time in this term. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems with the assessment of damage are eternal, they occur in many places, although not everywhere, it is necessary to make it clear. There are a lot of hunters who did it right, and there was no problem with that. But even as the hunter did it well, you know, Madame, that he was a judge on his own behalf and that it was not well received socially. There have been complaints for many years, you have done nothing. [[What did you do?]] No one's taking the trouble, and we're taking it and we're doing it. [[It'll be the same.]] Do we make mistakes? Yeah, maybe we're making mistakes, maybe the Chiefs weren't needed here, but we're looking for a solution because we want to solve this problem for the good of farmers. [[But it's gonna be the same as it was.]] The Polish People's Party screams that it is for farmers, but it is really just a group of minding their interests, not farmers' interests. [[Shame, sir.]] We take care of the farmers, and we'll find a way to make things right. Cuckoo 15 - small earnings in ODRs. Right, there are small wages in ODRs, right, that there are no employees, that there are jobs, but that there are no employees. After all, here we support ODRs, after all we give 12 million PLN, which will go on wages in ODRs. If they are weak, you should support this project. Mr President, you did not say whether you would support or not. You should support it because we support the ODRs as you wish. ODRs need to be supported in Poland because they were broken by the seymikas when the seymikas took over the ODRs. Now we have to fix it, we have to fix it. Next idea: Why not Arimr? Yeah, why not Arimr? After all, there are many questions to be asked: Why not yet the one why... ODRs, because you have to support ODRs, because ODRs are in every municipality. There's an ODR employee in every municipality unless there's a vacancy. And if not, there should be an ODR employee in every municipality. And we're gonna help that there's gonna be an employee. You tricked the farmers, says PSL. If we're talking about scamming farmers, then bigger scams for farmers than PSL has been and will not be. They've been crooks for farmers, and they're crooks so far, because they didn't do anything about it, they didn't want to do anything, because they were keeping track of the hunters' business. And here you say you're cheating the farmers. [[What kind of language is that, sir?]] Then why do you say such things? You've been cheating on farmers for many years, and now we have to fix it. Why was there 150 million in that first project, and now there's 10 million? That is why, Madame, you may not know enough about this. 150 million were with damage, and now 10 million are estimated costs. After all, there is a difference: the cost of estimation, and 150 million are the cost of estimation and hunting damage. You just need to know a little bit about it. The question is why so quickly. Mr Starzdowski asked why so quickly. That is why, Mr President, the matter of the Chiefs has failed. It must be made clear that the Chiefs were not prepared. If they were communes, they'd make it. We need to fix this. Sometimes we admit mistakes, correct mistakes, draw conclusions and move forward because we have to serve Poland because we are here for Poles and for Polish farmers. That's why we do it so hard. [[Applause]] And everything. The last gentleman in Kukiza asked why ODRs. I've already answered that. Mr President, I think that if you also take this honestly... During that term the ODRs were broken, they were handed over to the Sejm, the ODRs were destroyed, the meaning of the ODRs at all, and it's not at all as far as the ODRs are concerned. This needs to be fixed so that agricultural advisory centers can bring to the village - apart from the fact that it brings proposals and finances, because this is needed - biological knowledge, technological knowledge, because this is very important. I think we're on the right track to fix the farm advisory centers and what the predecessors have ruined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u447	Thank you very much. [[I ask you to correct the misunderstood speech that you have made.]] And you were mentioned? [[I didn't mention any names.]] [[You're welcome, Marshal.]] No. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws (prints No 2551 and 2613). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law, print No 2551. High Izbo! By Law of 11 July 2014, the Sejm amended the provisions governing the scope of concessions for the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons contained in the Geological and Mining Law. During this term of office, these provisions have already been improved by the parliamentary draft No 364. Unfortunately, there's still something to fix. Errors have been identified to prevent the proper conduct of administrative investigations into the exploration, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Corrections should also be made concerning the selection process or the design of geological works, etc. The transitional provisions contained in the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws which regulate the issue of concessions granted on the basis of the provisions in force before the date of entry into force of the abovementioned Act should also be amended. amendments, including acquired rights, e.g. the right of the entity which has discovered and documented the deposit to obtain a concession for the extraction of hydrocarbons from that deposit. High Izbo! The next set of rules addresses the problem of so-called. concessions 2020. Most coal and lignite mining concessions issued in the 1990s expire around 2020. A change in their term of validity would result in the whole procedure being passed, as in the case of a newly issued concession, which, with much more complex environmental rules and local conditions than in the 1990s, could lead to the retention of coal and lignite mining and the principles of rational resource management require the use of available deposits to the end. Other problems dealt with here by the amendment include: free conduct of geological studies in the Polish part of the Baltic Sea bottom, the need to clarify the provisions on determining professional qualifications, obtaining additional proceeds for the extraction of natural gas with the content of helium, which is recovered at the processing stage, and a number of other problems. High Izbo! I'm moving on to a detailed presentation, very brief of course, because I don't have much time. In short, I would like to discuss a few of these solutions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of this amendment is amended to the Geological and Mining Law. Recording of the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 extends the catalogue of fossil deposits owned by the State Treasury with precious gases and rare earth elements. The provisions on hydrocarbons shall apply to noble gases. Record of the amended Article. 15 clarifies the principles of exercising the right of priority, i.e. power to request the establishment of mining use. This is possible if the trader has actually identified the deposit and raised the recognition to a category allowing the development of the deposit to be carried out. If, on the other hand, it has raised the category of recognition for a part of that deposit, it has no right of priority to the whole. In turn, in the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1b of the provisions provide that the exploration and recognition of hydrocarbons and their extraction within the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland or the exploitation of hydrocarbons will require the opinion of the Minister of National Defence and the Minister responsible for fisheries. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 a provision was added requiring the concession authority to agree on the concession with the Minister responsible for the management of fossil deposits. There is some consistency and symmetry with the rules, such as the provisions of the Council of Ministers Act, which gives a certain competence to the Minister. In turn, the provision of the article. 29 clarifies the grounds for refusing to grant concessions which are too general. One of these conditions is e.g. where the intended activity would prevent the use of marine areas as intended in the marine water spatial planning plan. In the event of minor minor minor minor changes, it will not be mandatory for the subject to a qualifying procedure to be re-examined in the event of changes. In the event of significant changes, such as the identity of the entity, ownership data, capital data, sources of origin of the measures, the procedure will be carried out ex officio only in this respect, which is subject to changes, and the entity will provide only evidence of the circumstances of those changes and will not have to submit the entire application. That's an easy one. for both the licensing authority and the trader. These changes are contained in Article. 49b. 1, 3 and 5 and Article 5 Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It's a different change. The second open door hydrocarbon concession award procedure is introduced next to the tender, which allows the concession procedure to be carried out at the request of the trader. But at the same time, as so far, it is the minister who sets out the areas for which he wishes to grant this concession. The procedure allows for a clear reduction in the cost of licensing, because there is no need to prepare expensive information. Those amendments are set out in Article. 49e and in the inserted article. 49ea-49ee. Amendments to Article 49j abolish the operator's obligation to have a minimum of 50% shares in the framework of a cooperation agreement. This makes it easier for businesses to act and the operator remains responsible for the performance of concession and statutory obligations. Amendments to Article 40za introduce the possibility of obtaining one investment decision in the case of a hydrocarbon deposit documented by one geological documentation and situated within a minimum of two concessions awarded to either one economic operator or the parties to one cooperation agreement. In addition, the security lodged for non-compliance or inadequate fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the concession and the financing of the decommissioning of mining works in the event of expiry, revocation or loss of the concession's power shall be waived. Entrepreneurs are afraid to block significant funds as a security deposit and limit the scope of the works, because the amount of the security is proportional to the size of the works. In addition to the security, the concession body has other means of supervision or discipline of entities. The amendments described are set out in Article. 49h, 49v, 49x, 49zd, 49zf and 49zh. In the event of an extension of the period of validity of mining concessions for coal and brown coal, agreeing on changes to these concessions with the mayor, the President will be replaced by the opinion of the local government body. I will not discuss in detail all the changes contained in the article. One, I'll just say, as the last change, that in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 162b-162f The provisions on the establishment and operation of Geoinfonet, which were intended to facilitate the collection, sharing and processing of geological data, are repealed. I would like to remind you that all possible deadlines for this project have passed, and the work on the programme has not come from the initial phase. Art. 2 of the project contained in print No 2551 amends the Law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland, specifically to art. 28 and 29 of this bill. These amendments are intended to ensure the participation of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. the environment in the authorisation process by the Minister for Maritime Affairs. Art. 3 in turn, the project contains amendments to the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The amendments provide that, in the event of an extension of the concession for the extraction of coal from the deposit within the mining area designated by the existing concession, the requirement to obtain a decision on environmental conditions will not apply. Similar provisions are provided for lignite and, let me remind you, it will be possible for lignite to extend the concession to 6 years. The extension will be one-off for both fuels. The introduction of these changes is justified by the rational economy of fossil deposits, i.e. pursuing the use of all available resources and maintaining the continuity of extraction. Art. 4 contains amendments to the Act of 11 July 2014, which I have already set up and criticized on several occasions, which was intended to simplify and often complicated the situation and the licensing body and the entities seeking the concession. These amendments aim to ensure consistency of the rules governing the licensing system. I'm not gonna make those rules either. so much detail, there's no time for that. I will focus on the transitional provisions. These provisions take into account the general principle of the application of existing provisions to proceedings which have been initiated and not completed, but there are exceptions to this rule, as this does not apply, inter alia. a provision on the relaxation of security requirements, which also includes existing concessions. In accordance with the provision of the Article. 12 - that is one of the transitional provisions - the existing hydrocarbon concessions will be adapted to the changes envisaged to facilitate business. Other exceptions to the principle that the existing rules apply are also beneficial for entrepreneurs. High Izbo! Art. 19 in turn provides for the possibility to submit by 31 December 2018 an application for the conversion of the concessions referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 repeatedly mentioned law of 11 July 2014, in concessions for exploration and exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. A. 24 concerns implementing provisions which remain in force until the date of issue of the new legislation under the new law, but no longer than 24 months. According to Art. 25 The law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. 1 amendment 57 (b) b. This is the change that refers to the toll table and talks about the charges for added precious gases. This Article shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In short, I have discussed the main changes that are contained in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. Naturally, the committee introduced a number of drafting and legislative amendments in the course of its work. The whole of the project is contained in the committee's report in print No 2613. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, please adopt the draft law in print 2613. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u449	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Czesław Sobierajski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, print No 2551. It aims primarily at reducing the investment risk incurred by entrepreneurs in the exploration, recognition, extraction of hydrocarbons from deposits, while safeguarding the interest of the State Treasury, as well as ensuring an effective extension of the concession for the extraction of coal and lignite from deposits, i.e. concessions 2020. The honourable Member has discussed all this very well. In addition, the project extends the catalogue of minerals covered by mining property to include precious gases and rare earth elements, as well as strengthens the position of the Minister of the Environment in the process of authorising scientific research in Polish maritime areas. The project also modified a number of existing solutions resulting from experience with the Geological and Mining Law Act. Although we are, of course, in favour of the bill as Law and Justice, we are proposing three important amendments. The first amendment concerns Article. 54. We're adding lips. 1a. The idea is that mining supervision will actually determine immediately, as unfortunately a tragedy will happen, in companies seeking and recognizing hydrocarbons from deposits within the sea areas of the Republic of Poland, i.e. immediately and actually. In addition, this amendment aims to adapt the wording of the Article. Paragraph 184. 1a Law to the nomenclature applicable in Directive 2013/30 of the European Union. It also aims to reduce the involvement of human resources and financial resources as regards mining supervisory authorities to determine the causes and circumstances of light accidents through the accident team set up by the entrepreneur. This is the essence of this amendment. The second amendment concerns Article. 49. The following paragraph is inserted with the letter a. Here the point is that there are currently differences between the provisions and the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament. So we need to adapt this to the CCS Directive. It's about carbon dioxide injection. This amendment concerns this. I don't discuss it in more detail, but that's the point. Then there are amendments to the Article. 55. The fifth amendment shall be added there. The point is that it is the extension of the concession, the one-off extension also applies to sulphur extracted by the opening method, including in the case of extension of the concession - a rational deposit economy - and without extending the scope of the concession. It's been said. Like mining plants, the Grupa Azoty, sulphur chemical plants and others have been licensed until 2020. The process is so laborious that they are at risk that they may not make it in time. What would happen then? They'd just stop producing. Can we imagine that? Oh, no. So this amendment is about to eliminate this so that there really is no threat. It's not just about these, it's about other companies. These corrections are precise and I'm putting them in the hands of the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u452	Of course, we support the bill in its entirety, with the amendments I have tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u453	Thank you. Mr Bogusław Sonik will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! I present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, print No 2551 and 2613. Turning right to the merits of the case, surely in a large part or even in most cases this project deserves support. On the other hand, there are two main concerns. One that a decision on the environmental impact will no longer be needed for the renewal of the concession. It's already been said here that the mines in the past operate on the basis of regulations from the early 1990s. During this time, much has changed and it seems that this should be taken into account. The second point, which is worrying and to which I will make an appropriate amendment, is Article. Point 55, where, instead of the former arrangement with the governor, it is proposed that only an opinion be delivered by the governor, which may or may not be taken into account. I propose in the amendment to restore the previous provision which says: the issue of an investment decision requires agreement with the mayor, the president of the city responsible for the place where the intended activity is carried out; the criterion of agreement is not to affect the intended activity of destination or the way in which the property is used as provided for in the relevant article. In addition, I am making a few amendments to improve the legislative and logical points of this amendment. Namely in the article. 1 after point 1, I propose that you add point 1a, which will be: methods of supporting the extraction of hydrocarbons are: fracturing, injection of liquids or gases to increase the rate of draining of the deposit. In this situation, it is proposed to introduce a definition of methods to assist the extraction of hydrocarbons, indicating specifically that they are fracking, embossing liquids or gases in order to increase the rate of depletion of the deposit. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 I propose that points 19 and 20 be deleted. The aim of this amendment is to delete the provisions according to which, in the context of the examination of compliance with the conditions of the tender, inter alia, The scope of cooperation in the development and implementation of innovation in the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons from scientific units led by the Minister for the Environment is also to be assessed. The justification for this amendment is that an entrepreneur seeking a concession and financing from his own resources the purchase of concessions and, if necessary, the exploration or extraction of deposits should himself decide on the selection of partners, including scientific bodies. The existence of the so-called existence. I take the letters of the Minister of the Environment as a misunderstanding, even considering the freedom of economic action. The amendments are also proposed in Article. 1 in point 37, where reference is made to Article. 69. The reason for this amendment is that the draft law provides for the division of the current delegation to be issued by the Minister for the Environment, inter alia. requirements for education, professional qualifications in individual professions for two mandates: for the Minister of the Environment and for the Minister for the management of fossil deposits. The amendment envisages a return to the current regulation, i.e. a single regulation, provided that it is issued by the Minister of the Environment in agreement with the Minister for Copies. And two more amendments. The first concerns the deletion of point 38 in Article. 1. The amendment provides for the lifting of the additional mandate for the Minister of Economic Affairs with fossils and a return to the current regulation, i.e. a single regulation, provided that it is issued by the Minister in agreement with the Minister for Cosmines. It is also proposed to leave in the article. 1 in point 40 of the Act, without introducing an additional obligation to obtain, as part of the approval of the draft geological works, opinions of the new institutions, the President of the Higher Mining Authority, MON. The geological administration always has the right to seek any opinion and should not be transferred to an entrepreneur. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u455	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sitarski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending geological and mining law, print no. 2613. In general, it is about regulations concerning the exploration, recognition and extraction of fossils from deposits. Now there is a reflection, Minister: it has finally moved, and I think this is the right direction. On this subject we also discussed here, in the Seym, we discussed, and I personally discussed the issues of concessions, the threat of concession terms. This problem has been spotted. Moreover, all the conditions that are included here are partly met by the needs of mining companies. It is absolutely necessary to agree that the state's raw materials policy should be conducted properly, but also in a way that facilitates the operation of mining plants in Poland. In general, open door policy, which is applied here, will also support new initiatives as much as possible, identifying the exploitation of rare earths, which was not before, is also one of the important points. I think one of the most important things... It is well known from the practice that local government does not always understand the needs of the company and enters into unnecessary conflicts, the cost of which must be borne by the entrepreneur, not the local government, which has already taken place in previous stories. The opinion of the local government is, but non-binding, so this is also a relatively good solution, because it is necessary to rely on the expertise of the decision-making person in the Ministry of the Environment. I have absolutely no objection to this project. And one more point: there was a question here about the possibility for the Ministry to designate scientific centres. I believe that Polish scientific institutes, Polish universities with the Main Mining Institute at the head, I believe, lead units, leading universities should participate as much as possible in any concession projects and thus - mining of minerals would be much more accurate, better quality, in a proper way, without damaging the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u457	Thank you. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u458	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Modern Club, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws, print No 2551, and the committee's report, print No 2613. The draft law aims to introduce changes to the simplification of rules which, you might say, cause many difficulties in interpreting or prevent the proper conduct of administrative proceedings and in fact hinder the operation of hydrocarbon extraction and exploration activities. The government also wants to reduce the risk of investment for entrepreneurs, which I think is right. One of the good provisions of the Act concerns the possibility for traders to obtain concessions for the extraction of hydrocarbons at their request, without having to compete in the tender. It also wants to reduce the risk of investment for the company. That's what I've been talking about before. The project clarifies the grounds for refusing to grant concessions. The company may not get it for the sake of state security. It's the so-called. The state's raw materials business. The concession may also not be obtained if the intended activity would prevent the use of the sea areas of the Republic of Poland in accordance with their intended purpose resulting from the planning acts. In addition, the project introduces a second procedure in addition to the tendering procedure for the award of hydrocarbon concessions at the request of the interested party. This will be possible if the area concerned is not covered by the tender notice. In principle, however, the possibility existed in Poland almost before 2015. I also took the liberty of familiarising myself with the August 2017 NIK report, which shows that Poland did not really define and pursue a coherent concession policy for the exploration and recognition of copper deposits, hydrocarbons, including shale gas. Another concession was awarded inefficiently, with delays, with excessive discretion. As a result, there is still no reliable data on the potential of shale gas, which makes it difficult to carry out a realistic raw material policy. The area controlled by NIK is one of the strategic spheres of the economy. The wealth of copper deposits in Poland is estimated at as much as 28 million tons. It is important for almost every branch of the economy and for many areas of everyday life. In turn, exploration and extraction from its own sources of oil or natural gas, including gas from unconventional deposits, in particular shale gas, is of great importance for the prospect of ensuring energy security. The assessment of existing activities in the field of licensing for exploration and recognition of both copper and hydrocarbon deposits, including shale gas, issued by NIK to subsequent ministers was negative. In its report, NIK also points out that, while copper extraction areas have not changed significantly over a controlled period, the area covered by the concessions for shale gas has radically decreased. However, it is the opposite trend - to make further concession areas available to businesses - that would keep the extraction at an appropriate level and increase the scope of search work. This desired trend would be guaranteed by a stable legal situation and a smooth and sound concession procedure on the part of the environmental department. However, the rules have changed several times over a controlled period. In fact, the Resort did not sufficiently secure the civil legal interests of the State Treasury in the agreements for the establishment of mining use for the purpose of exploration and recognition of oil and natural gas deposits and copper deposits. The NIK submitted its comments, which are in fact the answer to the... This law responds to the comments presented by the NIK, which only delights and strengthens your position. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Modern Club, we are in favour of this Act, but we are paying attention to certain issues. I think it is important to say that the procedure for this law is described as reprehensible. Tuesday, time of day. 9 - committee, at 9 p.m. 16 - subcommittee. There is really no time to discuss this project with experts, which is not in line with building good law. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u459	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u460	There are records that may conflict with economic freedom, and I'm talking about a list...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u461	Thank you very much. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u462	...environment. We're also...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u463	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u464	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u465	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u466	Parliamentary Club PSL - ED agrees with the assumptions contained in the bill under review. We treat the Act as a purely technical set of regulations that regulates and simplifies formalities related to the extraction of fossil raw materials in Poland. In a comprehensive manner, it regulates issues related to obtaining concessions for the extraction of hydrocarbons, mainly shale gas, the exploitation of amber deposits and the extension of the concessions for the extraction of hard coal and brown coal. It will be a lot easier for investors to issue tenders for the exploration and extraction of minerals. The introduction of this open door procedure will have a positive impact on the extraction of shale gas, the potential future of Polish energy. At present, the provisions relating to this raw material are contained in 15 laws. The proposed changes will also prevent the expiry in the near future of more than half of today's 65 concessions for the exploitation of hard coal and brown coal. We therefore support the intention to harmonise the provisions of the Geological and Mining Law which make it easier for businesses to obtain concessions for the extraction of minerals and to continue carrying out investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u467	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator (prints Nos 2506 and 2615). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u468	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, print No. 2506. The project entered the Sejm on 4 May 2018. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent on 8 May the above draft law to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for first reading. The provisions of the Act so far allow for a reduction in the salary of Members and Senators if their conduct prevents the work of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly, as well as their bodies, by gross violation of the relevant regulations, including in the case of unjustified absence and absence of participation in meetings of the Sejm, the Senate, the National Assembly, and their bodies, and in the case of the behaviour of a Member or a Senator who does not respect the seriousness of the Sejm, the Senate and the National Assembly, but only the sitting room. This also applies to the reduction and loss of the right to the parliamentary diet of Members and Senators. The proposed amendments provide for the above mentioned reduction in salary, as well as a parliamentary diet or loss in the event of unworthy behaviour of a Member or a Senator also outside the sitting room, in particular meetings outside the Parliament building, as well as meetings of Parliament committees or parliamentary teams. These regulations aim to increase the prestige and seriousness of the Polish parliament, severely damaged by unworthy behaviour. The first reading of the committee took place on 4 June. The Commission accepted four amendments. Amendments 1 and 3 clarify the issues of behaviour affecting the seriousness of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly not only at their meetings but also at the meetings of their bodies, i.e. Bureau of the Sejm, Senate Bureau, Senior Convention, Sejm and Senate Committees and National Assembly. On the other hand, amendments 2 and 4 extend the provision that infringements in a gross manner of peace or order also apply to the area on the Board of the Senate Office. The Commission, after first reading the draft at its meeting on 4 June 2018 and considering it at its meeting on 7 June 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u469	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. First of all, the importance of this term must be stressed: the seriousness of the Sejm. This term was already included in the 1991 Sejm's Rules of Procedure. It is not defined by law in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, nor is the seriousness of the court defined in the Law on the System of General Courts. According to the Polish vocabulary, Witold Doroszewski and according to a certain judicial practice, I mean various disciplinary bodies, the seriousness of the subjectivity is the way of being balanced, controlled. From the point of view, it is also acquired by work, merit, the ability to settle cases, authority, prestige. This seriousness must be in line with the place, it concerns a state authority or an institution. Depending on the situation, there are certain standards of behavior that deserve to be... The idea is to behave in such a way and not differently in a given institution, bearing in mind also the dignity of persons and respect for those who take part in a given event, speak publicly in a public debate. For this reason, the group of Members I am representing considered it necessary to amend these provisions in order to introduce into the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator those amendments which were mentioned by the rapporteur, Mrs Halina Szydleko. At the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, because there were various questions extending the scope of these provisions, we specifically stated that it was about maintaining the seriousness of the Sejm, the Senate or the National Assembly at the meetings of these bodies, but also at the meetings of the Seniors Convention, the Sejm Bureau, the Senate Bureau. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, so far this assembly has one committee, the Rules of Procedure Committee. The second amendment introduces a provision concerning violation of its conduct in a flagrant manner of peace or order on the premises of the Sejm Office or Senate Office. This is about behaviour that violates the public order that should prevail here, even for the sake of the safety of all of us and of third parties. There have been various incidents, even from MEPs to journalists. In this Chamber, too, we had examples of behaviors that should not take place, even if the Seym Speaker was occupied. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... There were no appropriate instruments to regulate these matters in a disciplinary manner. Therefore, amendments have been submitted to the High House, which will initiate a subsequent procedure, when the scope of these provisions has already been adopted, with regard to amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. For the Council [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Law and Justice Club to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u471	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the committee's report on the amendment of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, of course, a negative position. What does this bill introduce? It extends the possibility of penalising the deduction of part of the salary or the parliamentary allowance for the behaviour affecting the seriousness of the Sejm not only during the sitting of the Sejm, but at all meetings of the Sejm, the Senate, the National Assembly, i.e. the meetings of the committee, the Convention of Seniors, the presidents of the committee. It also introduces the possibility of punishing Members for a gross violation of peace or order on the premises of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery. You might think, ladies and gentlemen, if only you read these new draft laws, if you did not have knowledge of what has been happening in Poland in the last 2.5 years, that these are good records, reasonable. No one would have any doubt that if a Member had come to a committee meeting, away or in the Sejm, in a poor psychophysical state, it should be possible to punish him. If someone had led to some strange situation in the Sejm, a fire threat, insulted a Sejm employee, a lady of peace, of course he should also be punished. But we are aware of what is happening in Parliament. Members of the opposition are being punished and the possibilities for the Marshal of the Sejm to grant penalties are radically increased. This law goes in this direction, so that in a moment it will change the Sejm's rules and be able to punish parliamentarians in another way. Last week, a few days ago, during the speech of Prime Minister Morawiecki here, which was some extremely wicked tirade, an unprecedented example of deception and aggression towards anyone who thinks differently than the Law and Justice law, as well as mockery from opposition, mockery from democratic principles, several or several times - Mr. Marshal counted exactly this - one of the opposition parliamentarians, Sławomir Nitras reacted. And he was the only one being punished, although the debate at this point was very hot and many people were speaking. Now the possibilities of punishment will be greater, but I would like to assure those who think that this will scare the opposition and that its voice will be heard that nothing like this will happen. It is our duty to talk about the bad things that this government does, about the bad influence of decisions made by this parliamentary majority on Poland. And you're not gonna scare us off getting paid, cutting off parliamentary allowances. When referring to committee work, it may be added - perhaps it is a minor matter - that the meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity has been convened on this matter in a manner that does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Art. 152 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provides that the members of the committee should be informed of the meeting of the committee at least 3 days before the meeting, unless it has been convened following decisions taken at the meeting of the Sejm. The first reading of this project took place on Monday 4 June last week, and was probably interrupted so that the parliamentary majority could make changes, remove the long-term vice-president of this committee, your colleague, who was recently absent from parliament due to illness, and as a result you do not have a majority in the committee. The work continued on 7 June, but the information that it would continue was obtained on 6 June, which was against the Sejm's rules. It can be said that in the context of what is currently happening in Poland, it is a minor matter, but if the rule committee does not comply with the rules of procedure, then what we can talk about. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shame.]] During our first reading, we subjected the original records of this project to devastating criticism. Its reading made it clear that it would be possible to punish parliamentarians for everything, for all the behaviours that undermine the seriousness of the Sejm, including private ones. The applicant has ensured that it is about the provisions that are currently in place. We had no reason to doubt honesty, but to hear something else, and to read something else in the draft law, all the more so since the explanatory memorandum of the law was an intermediate version between one variant and another, which showed that it was possible to punish for any behaviour resulting from the execution of the Member's mandate, i.e. behaviour at a press conference, etc. We would like to ask what a flagrant violation of security and peace in the area belonging to the Sejm Chancellery means. Or, for example, It can be interpreted that providing food to protesters would be such a gross violation or, in the end, even, I don't know, too expressive press conference at which the Marshal of the Sejm will be criticized? A little of this, of course, I am mocking to show that this is another way to gag the opposition's mouth, but this is a test that will be ineffective and which will show the voters once again what the intentions of the ruling party are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u473	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u474	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. In our view, this project is an abstract and ridiculous project. In fact, since checking and disclosure, from civil control of how Members and Senators are supposed to behave in the plenary room, there are media. It is the media that is the fourth authority that shows, in this sense, civil, and checks, how Members behave in the plenary room, how they behave in the Sejm, how they carry out their duties as Members of Parliament. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is not from you that the sanctions imposed on parliamentarians are imposed on you, but on the image of the media in newspapers or on television - it is definitely up to you - it is up to you how Members behave. Then the public sees whether the Member concerned behaves ethically or unethically, morally, or immorally, decently, or unworthyly during his duties as Member or Senator. If we are aware of such behaviors that we have already seen, such as the trip of Karski or Zbonikowski to Cyprus, where they smashed up the melex and behaved unethically... [[On a business trip.]] ...this illustrates the behaviour of Members and how the Members of the Law and Justice behaved. I would like to remind Mrs Raven a few years ago when an indisposed woman asked questions to journalists and said that she had a birthday two days ago. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]] And an example concerning Mr Andrzej Pałys, from another political option - the Polish People's Party - which comes out before the Sejm and does not really know where he is, where he is. Another example is a Member from Mr Protasiewicz's Civic Platform, who shouted at Frankfurt Airport: Heil Hitler. [[Why don't we talk about Kukiza?]] One way or another is, of course, reprehensible and unacceptable behavior, but it is through the media that we really learn that these behaviors have taken place. I will mention, for example, the conduct of one of the Eagles of Law and Justice, a Member of Law and Justice, who has lied publicly, lies that he does not receive a salary, yet this allowance does. Is this ethical behavior or unethical behavior? [[He's breaking the Sejm's weight.]] Looks like he's violating the Sejm's seriousness. In such cases, I have here a question for the Member of the applicant - when Members are lying openly, will there be penalties? If so, I am asking for a penalty for Members of the Law and Justice for their promise in the election campaign that they will not raise taxes and when they rule, they will increase taxes. However, the lie expressed publicly is also a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And talking on the phone by the marshal during the proceedings is worthy?]] I have one last question, because really this project, as I mentioned, is a project that shouldn't happen at all because it's not that way. Not that way, because this is really a project that hits all of us, also because today Law and Justice rule, tomorrow may rule another political option, and such instruments given to the ruling party serve nothing good. We should all know how to behave in the plenary room, how to behave in or outside the Sejm, because above all, we represent our constituents and conduct... it is up to us first and foremost to behave morally, to behave ethically, not like the Members of Law and Justice. Because this bill, however, is a tribute to Mr Pieta's behavior, which we know is how he behaved on the beach, and whether it's... [[It's not Friday, it's Jackowski.]] Whether Senator Jackowski or Mr Pięta - it is already, so to speak, from one political environment. But to sum up, in a moment's time, when it comes to this bill, Members or Senators will have to mow grass in a suit, because to this, ladies and gentlemen, you will lead to the fact that any behavior may be attached to whether the Member behaved ethically or unethically or reprehensiblely or impeccably. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, we, as Kukiz.15, apply to reject this abstract project in its entirety at second reading. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u475	Thank you. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are looking at a law that should really be called the Law on the Training of Members by the President, because it is hard to resist the impression that this is the purpose of the Act. Marshal Kuchciński was once offended when the opposition Member said to him, "Mr. Marshal, my dear, but you did not see anything wrong when Jarosław Kaczyński from this speaker spoke to the opposition Members, saying, "The murders of the traitors." You simply apply double moral standards every day - this is Kalego's morality - and today you want to judge what is moral, what is consistent with the seriousness of the Sejm and what is not? You can see by hand that you simply wish to create this law such a statutory whip on those Members who honestly, honestly recite the current government. When I hear that PiS politicians are supposed to judge what's worthy and what's not worthy, I just have the creeps on my back. After these changes, will it be worth calling PiS politicians a national change camp? It's gonna be real, but it probably won't be worth it in your eyes. After these changes, will it be worth calling the understudy at the Constitutional Court three people who have been illegally elected to seats already filled? It is true, but in the eyes of the PiS, it will probably be unworthy. After these changes will it be worth calling the judges who were elected to the KRS, the PiS-nominat? It'll be true, but it probably won't be worth it in the eyes of the PiS. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose that you create a committee of parliamentary dignity with your personalities of dignity, namely Mr. Tarczyński and Mrs. Pawłowicz in the first ranks. This is gonna be a really good solution. This is absolutely not about the dignity of the Sejm, this is all about your convenience. This is about the convenience of PiS politicians who either because of arrogance or because of their cowardice can't stand a fair review of their actions. You're afraid of independent grades, you're afraid of people's opinions, but you're not gonna force us to remain silent with punishments or threats, because we're gonna keep telling the truth. And then, if necessary, we will pay every penalty you impose on us. You can train this in your own company, but we will not be intimidated by any law, by any law as Members of the opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u477	Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is nothing more than an attempt to close the opposition's mouth exposing the true face of the PiS government. It's supposed to be a democratic package, and what's it like? There's an authoritarian package. In front of us from the temple of democracy, which is the Seym, you make the Seym silent. In a moment, Members will not be able to say anything, because everything will be a violation of the Sejm's seriousness. The opposition disciplines, harasses and now gags her mouth not only in the plenary room, but also in the meetings of the committee or the Senior Convention, or on the premises of the Sejm Chancellery. If you want to preserve the seriousness of this House, start with yourself and judge your own Members and their conduct. Why don't you have any consequences for them? Because, as I recall, no member of the PiS has been punished in this term of office, no one has received a financial penalty, and unfortunately no one has been able to count the opposition members on the fingers of two hands. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to be those censors, why not judge the behaviour of Mr Tarczyński, Mrs Pavłowicz or Mr Kaczyński? Are they not violating the seriousness of the Sejm? Because in my opinion, they are the ones who are primarily violating the seriousness of the Sejm. By blocking our lips, you break the basic principles of democracy. It's a punishment against the entire opposition. You have democratic mechanisms blocking power as an obstacle to achieving the goals set by Nowogrodzka. But even by imposing financial sanctions on us, the biggest financial penalties, you won't shut our mouths and we will continue to work to show you this cash change, your hypocrisy. Here I was talking about these examples of your fellow Members, so I will only quote one quote from the committee meeting, at which Mrs Pavłowicz said: I have an appeal to this part of the left-room to master the rudeness of her representative, who without insulting [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whoever can't just open their mouths. Is this an insult to the Seym? [[Applause]] I'm filing a motion for rejection at second reading, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u479	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. One might say briefly: for theirs there are high prizes, million briefings, apanages, and for the opposition - financial penalties and oppression. This is the democratic package a la PiS. Today we are dealing with another episode of this pathetic show, just remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, that you will not rule until the end of the world. Sooner than you think you're gonna be beneficiaries of this bullshit legislation, and then it's gonna hurt. This project is nothing more than another instrument of pressure from the Marshal of the Sejm of PiS and the Sejm Bureau mostly against the democratically elected opposition. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński's statements about militaryism in the Polish parliament or the ravages of Poland are widely known. Will such statements also be subject to violations of the dignity of a Member and a Senator? The PiS philosophy of restricting civil rights, writing by the police people who ask questions at election meetings with Members, is a sign of the separation of power from citizens. The Seym was a siege for more than a month. Corridors were sealed off, entrances were closed, all in fear of the sovereign. A sovereign who can always be said to destroy the courts or build a private army and shooting range by his will. It is symptomatic that you cannot listen, which is particularly evident in rejecting all opposition requests, preventing questions from being asked that you do not want to hear. The beginning of today's Sejm sitting is the best example that censorship has returned. What Poles remember before 1989, they can feel again, and these younger ones can see what the Polish People's Republic looked like, where the Sejm is facaded, the government is facade when government television broadcasts propaganda of success, insulting the opponents of the government, when it is finally possible to call off the best Prime Minister of the Third Republic in one day. This project is part of your policy of punishing, introducing financial penalties for the opposition, while your PiS Members insult people, show their middle finger, scream and insult others by collecting multi-thousand prizes, not to mention councillors who receive million-dollar salaries from Treasury companies. It's just a shame. It is remarkable that in this term of office, not a single penalty has been imposed on Mr PiS. Or may I remind you, because he was a fine figure in the period of the Polish People's Republic, even a prosecutor during the past system, and more specifically, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, of horror, compared his opponents to rats. The project is another tool in your democratic package. You will punish, punish financially, for a while, and close the opposition, as Piłsudski did, and yet you refer to his legacy all the time. Mr. Marshal! The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will clearly vote against these harmful changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u481	Thank you. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u482	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! They thought, thought, and invented a threat to the opposition. How's that gonna work, marshal? Capisone. Kapiszon, because the opposition will not be frightened, because the opposition in this term is increasingly aware of its rights. She is aware that you are breaking the constitution, she is aware that you are violating the mandate of a Member and a Senator, she is aware that she cannot ask questions, cannot participate in discussions, cannot justify amendments, cannot intervene that she is prevented from asking difficult questions. You tighten the screw, you violate standards, customs, parliamentary practice. This project is directed to the opposition and is prepared by the PiS. You're gonna use it, we're gonna laugh at you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna be squealed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u483	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days a financial penalty has been imposed on the opposition Member Mr Sławomir Nitras, but he was not the only one. The president of the Club Modern Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz was also punished financially. For what? For violating the Sejm's seriousness, but in fact, the marshal could not explain what exactly the President was being punished for. We're getting less and less, but the Marshal is punishing us more and more. This is an absurd situation that should not take place in a democratic state of law. In addition, you say that these changes aim to increase the prestige of the Polish Parliament. I do not know how to prevent Members from speaking to these better standards of Polish parliamentarianism. I think these rules, this parliamentarianism is getting weaker. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u485	Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I wanted to respond briefly to these speeches, because this project is not a bat against the opposition, as you say here. You're saying he's gonna shut his mouth. You can criticize... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are afraid of difficult questions.]] ...if you want, you have grounds for it, you can criticize the government, you can criticize us, but do it in a manner worthy of this House, worthy of parliamentary debate. I want to emphasize here... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Tarzyński, Pavłowicz.]] Even such behavior - now you are disturbing me in my speech. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And Terlecki speaks on the phone.]] It is also simply a complete lack of personal culture by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Speaking on the phone Mr Marshal.]] This is also the case in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, it is so all the time. A lot of reservations here were simply demagogical. I can say this: I have been in various groups, I have been at the meetings of the bar, I have held meetings of the Chamber, I have been at various representative meetings, in sports and cooperative unions, I have been chairman of the Seym, I have three terms of office of the Vice-President of the Provincial Government, two terms of office in the Council of the City, a term of office in the Senate, but such a low level of culture of discussion, debate as in this Chamber... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But some Members.]] Some of our fellow Members, also from our club. Also from our club - I'm not afraid to say it. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] There shouldn't be that kind of behavior. It is simply that we should all take care of the prestige of this room and that our speeches here, as well as in the organs of the Sejm, the Senate, in committees, be of the right class, and that is unfortunately not so. Mr Rzepecki. You made a mistake, sir. The point is that this law only applies to the behaviour of Members at committee meetings, the Sejm Bureau, the Seniors Convention, the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure Committee - because there is one committee. Here, in this Chamber, you give examples of Members' speeches. You know, you're a young Member, you're a young man, and I think that when you evaluate these people and their behavior in the past, you should be the last person to mention it. You should just be more restrained in these assessments, especially since you probably don't know everything about what situations this has happened. I think this is not the place for you to judge these Members, some of their behaviour from a distant or distant past. With regard to such statements as the court of Members, the national change, the doubles in the Constitutional Court, the PiS-wskie nominators... There are no understudys at the Constitutional Court. Doublers, Member, are sometimes in team games. You know, these are the kind of fighters who take turns. They're doubles. And there are judges who, in accordance with the regulations of the relevant laws...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u487	Let me get to the point, sir, because you are moving away from the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u488	...the Constitutional Court laws have been chosen by the Sejm. These terms, ma'am, are highly inappropriate, as are these: the KRS of PiS-ovski Nominations. You're just insulting these people. It was the Sejm who chose them, and since you did not vote, this is your case. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The National Judicial Board may be elected in the manner set out in the Act. There is an appropriate provision in the Constitution and we had the right to choose the National Judicial Council in such a way, because it is high time the judges stopped choosing themselves, as it has been since 1989. In conclusion, I believe that this project will fulfil its tasks, but only when it is supplemented by a change in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which will be examined as soon as the law is passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u489	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. [[And the corrigendum?]] I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal without referring it to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]] Madam President, this is no longer the time for discussion. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I was mentioned by name and surname.]] But that was in answer to the questions. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I was mentioned by name and surname. I would like to correct what Mr Matusiewicz misunderstood.]] That's not an option anymore. We've closed this point. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal...]] ... Report from the Legislative Commission... [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I was mentioned by name and would like to correct.]] ...about the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] ...to examine the correctness and legality of operations... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] Don't bother me, okay? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Can I file a formal application in accordance with the regulations?]] ...to examine the correctness and legality of operations... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal motion to report, Mr Marshal.]] ...and the negligence and omissions of public bodies and institutions... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I submit a formal motion. He's out of order.]] ...in terms of ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] You interrupt me while I'm reading. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I have already filed a motion for correction. I was mentioned by name and surname.]] Madam, I will finish reading and I will talk to the Member. You're interrupting my time again... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No. Mr. Marshal, I've requested a corrigendum...]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the agenda. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I am filing a formal motion, Mr Marshal.]] You'll report him when I'm done reading. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I have already filed a motion for correction and now a formal application.]] Just a moment, ma'am. [[Voice from the room: Wait for the half-minutes.]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and public institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties (prints No 2475 and 2604). Now file a motion. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: About the corrigendum - it was the first one I reported. And now I'm filing a formal motion.]] Please make a formal request in writing. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I will present it in writing in a moment.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u490	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to make a formal request for a few minutes' break to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u491	You're kidding. Now we're gonna vote for a break?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u492	Mr. Marshal, let me justify my request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u493	There's no way we can vote for a break right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u494	Exactly, because you're afraid of the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u495	Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u496	This bill is to gag us. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u497	I ask Mr Wojciech Sharama to submit a report to the committee. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Congratulations, Marshal. That's the best piece of evidence.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, this is a joke. You're embarrassing Parliament.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission authorised me to submit a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in the area of ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties, print No 2475. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee meeting, two projects were discussed because two projects had just been submitted to clarify matters relating to unpaid VAT, with unpaid excise duty, in order to clarify matters relating to unpaid VAT. The Commission voted that print project 2475 would be carried out. The most important amendment adopted by the committee following suggestions from the Sejm Analysis Office and the Legislative Office is the determination of the period to be examined by the committee. Thus, the title of the resolution, as proposed by the committee, should read: on the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the existence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015. Therefore, the scope of the committee's work has been clarified. This change in the name of the committee shall be one-sounding with the provision of the Article. 1, which talks about the scope of the committee. The remainder of the resolution proposed in print No 2475 has no longer undergone major substantive changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u499	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bartus will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in relation to the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and public institutions in terms of ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties. The report is contained in print No 2604. The appointed Committee of Investigation will be tasked with examining and reviewing the negligence, omission and incompetence of the team running our country in 2007 and 2015. I would like to stress that the governments of the coalition PO - PSL led to the fact that in the country there was a VAT extortion of more than PLN 250 billion. Annual VAT fraud losses, carousels, etc. amounted to PLN 30.50 billion. This amount is higher than the need for the implementation of the 500+ programme over a year. At the same time, I would like to remind you that when in 2007. The platform included governments, the gap was estimated to be 5% .9% , and Poland was one of the leaders in the European Union in terms of the effectiveness of VAT revenues. After 8 years, however, when the coalition of PO - PSL gave power to Law and Justice, it was a completely opposite phenomenon. Within 8 years, the gap has risen to over 23%, and it is estimated that up to more than 27%. Previously, the rulers as if they had not noticed a sharp increase in differences between theoretical and actual VAT receipts and did not take any action, they were not looking for legal solutions to stop this process. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why did this happen? Who decided that for eight years there was no real fight against tax frauds, the VAT mafia, especially carousel crimes and the grey zone in the fuel trade? Who let you rob the whole community? The rule of law and justice shows that what could not be done in the years 2007 to 2015 manages to be done now. Our government's rapid and effective efforts to fight the VAT scandals, real legislative action, fuel package, single control file, stricter criminal sanctions, fiscal reform plus rising GDP have contributed to a significant increase in the state's VAT revenue. There's a clear indication of that. The State's revenue on this tax increased in 2017 by PLN 30 billion compared to 2016 and by PLN 44 billion compared to 2013. What seemed impossible becomes possible. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want nine people on the committee. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my full support for the creation and effective operation of the Committee of Investigation, which will explain why and how in 2007 and 2015 all Poles were robbed by VAT fraudsters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u501	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, you will speak with Isabella Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Supreme Audit Chamber presented information on the results of the review of the implementation of the State budget for 2017, in the part for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, Part 19. In fact, from the Supreme Audit Chamber we learned that the next ministers from the government of PiS: Paweł Szalamach, Mateusz Morawiecki and Teresa Czerwińska, delayed the introduction of a central invoice register by 2 years, i.e. solutions that allow to correlate the moment of invoice with the transfer to the tax administration's server and to make the purchase of a service or goods available to the tax account. In the opinion of many experts, this IT solution is the most effective way to seal the tax system. This was recommended by the team appointed by Minister Mateusz Rzczurk, the team responsible for: combating VAT-related crime. Why have other finance ministers in the PiS government allowed billions of zlotys to flow from the state budget in 2016, 2017 and 2018? In 2018, too, because so far the company of Critical Applications, which had introduced the same system, has done nothing, only the next president changes there, is probably the third one, with the entire board. If it weren't for people with disabilities it wouldn't be 500 PLN, but 1000 PLN. I am convinced that the public should find out why, after entering the Ministry of Finance at the end of 2015, instead of continuing the project with EU funds e-taxes, the project which allowed the implementation of IT sealing solutions for the collection of PIT, CIT and VAT, instead of continuing this project, set up a special purpose company Critical Applications; it was supposed to be a miracle. It was to implement this project immediately, very quickly, and in a few months we were going to have a central invoice register. Unfortunately, the result is that the company has done nothing, the only success of it is that it has cost us, Mr.Polish taxpayers, 13 million. That's what the other presidents cost, their wages, their checks, because nothing else happened in the company. The second result of the operation of PiS in the Ministry of Finance is the killing of the e-tax program, i.e. the program sealing the collection of taxes. Recently Minister Czerwińska gave 80 million PLN, which were intended for this project, because the Ministry of Finance under PiS is unable to implement it. Therefore, the Civic Platform amends, which will allow the Parliamentary Committee of Investigation to examine why the PiS government knocked out the teeth of the tax administration in 2016 and 2017 by introducing the KAS, which is one big chaos, and why it gave up the rapid introduction of a central invoice register. And don't tell stories about spectacular successes in sealing, because you're really failing, not success. It is enough to compare GDP dynamics with the growth rate of VAT revenues, impose the structure of PBK on it, impose a trade balance on it, if Mr Horała knows at all what I am talking about, and then it turns out that the sealing is not 30 billion, which is said by Prime Minister Morawiecki, at most 8 billion. And now note: of these 8 billion 6 billion is the deferred effect of the Civic Platform. You can read this in the 2014 multiannual financial plan of the country, because we have calculated the results of our actions. I encourage you to read. Two billion, on the other hand, may be the result of your actions, but I don't think there's anything to congratulate... [[Voice from the room: Good and this.]] ...and it's not some spectacular success. You don't know it yet, but your finance minister already knows. That's why she sent a letter to all the IRS asking what's going on with the VAT. In the first quarter of 2018, although GDP increased by more than 5%, VAT revenues only increased by 0.5%. That's your sealing, and instead of doing your job, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You shoot blanks and just make a propaganda bang, that's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u503	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of taxes in Poland is not only a question of VAT, but also excise duties. Then, in September last year, when Kukiz (15 was the first to submit a draft of the Extraordinary Commission for VAT and excise fraud, we were provoked by a statement from one of the trade unionists who said that they had been ordered by one of the prominent customs ministers not to control fuel tanks. It shocked me terribly, because this is one of the profit generators in Poland. Fuels are a very sensitive element, generating profits for companies such as Orlen and ordinary entrepreneurs, because fuels are either expensive or cheap for some reason. On the other hand, as regards the situation of VAT, I would like to say that with some disbelief I accept the fact that, however, the draft resolution is cut out of the period 2016-2017, which is why the Kukiz project is thrown into the trash bin15, although it is very coincident with the draft Law and Justice, and it is thrown out only because it is these years: 2016 and 2017. Kukiz.15 takes the view that VAT fraud is a crime problem, not a policy problem. We want to heal the Polish state so that no one in the future can extort VAT, and those who have led this VAT to be extorted have responded to the Court of State. If this is proved, if this is confirmed in the committee's investigation, then such actions will be undertaken, but we do not assume anything in advance. I will say more: the VAT problem is a European problem, because it is a sick tax, very complicated. I wish the whole European Union to withdraw from this idiotic idea - indirect tax - as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Kukiz,15 will support this resolution on the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission, because we want to make this situation clear. We are not talking here about 800 million, as in the case of Amber Gold, we are talking about billions, which in front of the whole Polish state and all the millions of officials were brought out. That's a fact. I think it's indisputable. We all know that about 200 and with duties, about 300 billion could have left Poland's borders. The humour will not improve that today VAT is also being removed from the tax system, but in a slightly reduced way, because it is about 28 billion PLN a month, which just still scares me. We must absolutely - and from that will be this committee - in an efficient, fast, substantive manner, away from politics to explain ways, to publicise this subject and finally to eliminate something that has caused the possibility of stealing from citizens for sums that are practically the amount of the national budget. It's shocking. In no way does it make me feel any better about the fact that in the European Union there is a talk of EUR 380 billion drawn up, as in Poland, during a similar period, because I am Polish and I am only interested in Polish interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u505	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the State Treasury's income in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties, and now: from December 2007 to November 2015. [[It's some kind of program.]] I would like to draw attention to this period, because it is equal to the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. On the other hand, honourable Members of the applicant, I am very curious how you will calculate the VAT gap for this particular period, which is not for an equal year, and how you will draw conclusions on the correctness and legality of the actions taken in 2007 and 2015, since you are not talking about the whole year, but about a certain period of the year. It's a big conundrum. And I know what this comes from - from total indolence, because people who prepared the resolution did not fully realize what they were talking about, what the VAT gap was about. [[Applause]] and what elements fall within the scope of this concept. Because it's not just so-called. It's a gray and black zone, but it's also a tax calculation error. This is also tax optimisation, which is not necessarily a crime and inappropriate action. This is, of course, an action which is unintended by the legislator, but falls within a specific legal regime of legal solutions. So these are the elements that are unverifiable. As a modern one, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, we requested that the Commission's work be extended to include the period for 2005 and 2017. Why 2005? Since the EU tax on goods and services entered into force on 1 May 2004, the first year for which an analysis could have been carried out, 2005 is precisely the year. And it doesn't matter that this year it was relatively low so-called. The VAT gap, but these years have an impact on subsequent, so without a detailed analysis of previous years, we will not come to rational conclusions concerning subsequent settlement periods. Therefore, I will make amendments on behalf of the Modern Club concerning the extension of the period as regards the activities of the Committee of Investigation for the years 2005 to 2017. The Member here has already talked about the years 2016 and 2017. I don't know why you're afraid of extending this year's 20162017. Did the VAT gap decrease and even expand in 2016, according to independent sources? It was 2.9% GDP, or PLN 53 billion. 2016 is the rule of law and justice, no one else. VAT-owska Luka - 53 billion. Then you boast about the alleged seal in 2017, but forget that you have amended the act on the tax on goods and services. As a result of this change, the quarterly accounts were wound up, which resulted in two accounting periods, i.e. October and November, in the case of income tax on goods and services, were included in revenue in 2017. What's more, you've been hobbling in the budget. There has been a refund of the tax on goods and services for 2016 to the 2017 account. It's nothing but creative accounting. With these creative accounting procedures, you're now bragging. You're pointing out that it's so-called. sealing of tax on goods and services. This is no seal, which is an example of the current data, which concerns the year 2018. In the first quarter of 2018, with GDP growth of around 5% or more than 5% and an increase in consumption of 8,1% VAT increased by 1.6%. What does that mean? This means that there is no sealing of the tax on goods and services in 2018 and the gap has widened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I'm making amends, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u507	Thank you. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Legislative Commission on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, prints 2475 and 2604. In the common language, let us talk about a resolution setting up a committee of inquiry on VAT. I regret to say that the Legislative Commission, when working on two draft resolutions, did not stand up to the task. It was rejected, and it was immediately at the beginning, a good project by Members of the opposition, the Kukiz Group15. The result of the committee's work is not the concern to close the existing VAT gap, which was and is a reality. In fact, these are the political screams of the PiS like: grab the thief. None of us question the existence of a VAT collection gap. Besides, the problem isn't just about our country. The European Commission already established in 2014 that this gap at EU level amounted to EUR 160 billion. In Poland it developed at the EU average and amounted to EUR 9 billion, i.e. 24.1%. According to the European Commission, cross-border VAT fraud amounts to around €50 billion per year, i.e. 1/3 of the VAT gap is cross-border settlement. Here we cannot act alone, alone as a country. VAT gaps are large amounts, large losses in income, so it is not allowed to pass indifferently alongside this issue. Yes, we agree, we need to examine, we need to figure out what the problem is, where they were and are made mistakes, eliminate them in future accounts. It is not true that the problem concerned only the governments of PO-PSL, as suggested by the governing party by adopting the survey period only from December 2007 to November 2015. By choosing and determining only such a period of study, you confirm only the purpose of your actions. This is an ordinary political pursuit, not an in-depth and substantive study of an important issue for the country. According to the evaluation of the implementation of the budget for the previous year, the Supreme Audit Chamber notes the increase in revenue, but at the same time emphasises the prosperity of the world economy, which is of great importance. It also indicates incorrect transfers of VAT refunds and the failure to enter a central invoice register. The numerous developments of economic analysts confirm that the gaps continue to persist at a very high level in 2016 and 2017. In total, it is even the amount of PLN 100 billion. So why do you propose to close the VAT gap in November 2015? Doesn't this government, the ruling party, care about the substantive explanation of this issue? I think I'm asking a rhetorical question. What you care about is political fighting. You're becoming absolutely unbelievable, dishonest at this point. You do not really care about Poland, about millions of Poles, but only about lying about reality. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, I make an amendment to cover the VAT gap from the beginning, i.e. from March 2004 to December 2017. We are convinced of the need to check the VAT accounts for the entire period of its operation in order to eliminate all irregularities and omissions in this regard in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u509	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. Of course, I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u510	I'm gonna get to the questions so I don't waste any time. Why are you trying to reduce the duration of this committee by adopting this resolution only in relation to the years 2007 to 2015? Mr Pampuch said why and what deformities are if estimation is adopted in this way. Why are you trying to protect the 2005-2007 period? The Government of the Civic Platform and PSL has prepared projects on the estimation of the gap, the development of methodology and its structure. This was supposed to be in 2016. You're not continuing this, you've only planned this for 2018. The central invoice register was supposed to be, and he's not here. So you should, out of decency, support the amendments so that the evaluation period, if you take the [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a resolution also concerned the years 2005 to 2007. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u511	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the reason for the delay in setting up the VAT extortion committee? For the last 10 months, the draft law of Kukiz,15, has been in the so-called law. The freezer. What was the reason why our project was frozen while we were talking about hundreds of billions of money lost from the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u513	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the rapporteur like to speak? No. You're very welcome, sir, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u514	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is, of course, a question of the intentions of the applicants. I can only repeat what was said at the committee meeting. The applicants have made it very clear that, in the years that you wish to extend the operation of this committee, there was no such situation as the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in the provision of State revenue for the tax on goods and services and excise duties. [[What do you mean it wasn't? I've been talking about this for five minutes.]] That's the shortest answer. [[But it's wrong.]] The time that has been prescribed for this committee is not accidental. This is the time from the beginning to the end of the Civic Platform's rule. [[We know.]] There is no Member here who spoke about some circular dates related to the end of the calendar year, the end of the financial year. For my part, I would like to draw your attention to the following, completely technical: the committee of inquiry refers, when there is suspicion, to the high probability of committing unlawful acts, illegal acts, acts that violate the interests of the State, financial interests, budgetary interests of the Polish State in this case. In order to reach such conclusions in the years 2016 and 2017, you need to have, ladies and gentlemen, just this legitimate suspicion and some evidence. I mean... [[Voice from the room: We're talking about it.]] Dear Messengers, You're on the finance committee, aren't you? What do you want to talk about at the meeting of the Finance Committee when the implementation of the 2017 state budget is being considered? What are you going to talk about now that you want to set up a committee of inquiry, claiming that there have been errors and omissions in this tax in 2017? [[But in black and white, we have the NIK report.]] [[Voice in the Chamber:...the report shows this.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[NIK said it clearly.]] Such period of examination by the committee shall be justified. It's a clear, compact period... [[And ready.]] ...and for which certain persons are responsible. The purpose of extending this catalogue is only to blur the work of this committee and extend it in time so that it cannot complete its work until the end of its term of office. [[You don't believe what you're saying.]] And that is probably what the Members of the applicant do not agree with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u515	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm closing the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Legislative Commission in order to consider the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Member? [[By correcting Mr Sharama's statement.]] Did you mention the name of the Member? [[Yes.]] But we've closed the discussion. [[He mentioned the problem I was talking about.]] No, my fellow Member. The discussion was already in committee, and now only if you misunderstood. [[But she was misunderstood by Mr Sharama.]] But Mr Sharama answered your question. [[But he misunderstood them, so...]] Question? [[Yes.]] Good. One minute. You ask the question again, I understand, correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u516	Dear Marshal, Mr Sharama, the rapporteur, misunderstood the interpretation given concerning the examination of the period. Dear Member, I would like to say to you that the arguments you have used concerning, among others, the period for which the committee should work relates to the gap in the estimation of losses. I would like to tell you that the estimated losses in 2005 and 2007 on average are higher than PLN 20 billion per year. Therefore, it would also be worthwhile for the period 2016.2017 - also the VAT-owska gap is assessed - to show which tools were not used. We said, among other things. on the central register of invoices. And it was black and white as stated by the Supreme Audit Chamber in relation to the budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u517	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities and the occurrence of negligence and omissions of public authorities and public institutions in ensuring the revenue of the State Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties, prints No 2475 and 2604. The scale of VAT fraud in 2007 was one of the lowest in Europe in Poland - we took second place after the Netherlands at the time. According to data prepared by PwC experts, the VAT gap at the end of 2007 i.e. at the time of the takeover of power by the government of PO-PSL amounted to PLN 7.1 billion and at the end of 2015, i.e. At the time of the takeover of power by the Government of Law and Justice - the United Right, it was already PLN 50.4 billion, so it increased more than 7 times. On the other hand, the cumulative level of VAT gap between 2008 and 2015 amounted to as much as PLN 262 billion! Thanks to the establishment of the Committee of Investigation, citizens have a chance to find out why such gigantic extortion could have occurred. Whether the cause was simply the indignity of the state authorities, or it was a conspiracy of political elites, parts of business, some consulting, consulting, legal and public officials - not only officials - which led to theft on such a gigantic scale to the detriment of the State Treasury. But in fact all the citizens of the Polish state were lost, and the most vulnerable social groups: pensioners, pensioners, families of many children, disabled people and their carers, who were deprived of higher benefits and a decent life by the failed governments of the coalitions of PO and PSL. Today, the Government of the United Right is making up for these negligence. The Sejm Investigation Commission should address not only the scale of VAT fraud but, above all, the monitoring of changes in the Polish law on this tax in the years 2008 to 2015 - changes in the laws, regulations of the Council of Ministers - which allowed for an increase in fraud in the years to come. Those in charge of this situation need to be identified. from the staff of all the authorities and institutions involved in the entire legislative process and appointed to take care of the financial interests of the State Treasury, in particular those of the competent departments of the Ministry of Finance, including the Department of Taxation on Goods and Services and the Legal Department and the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, as well as the managers of those institutions at the time. The possible responsibility of Prime Minister Donald Tusk should be examined, who, following the outbreak of the Amber Gold scandal in 2012, signed an order eliminating the Department of Economic Interest Protection of the State prosecuting the so-called mafia. White collars. Today, such a structure - under a slightly different name - functions again. There are also economic crime departments in every regional prosecutor's office. A negative role in this criminal activity was also played by judges who treated VAT frauders gently, including tax criminals - which was allowed by the judges. Cassation judgment of 12 August 2008, which cleared the criminal charges of the tax fraud of Opole. Supreme Court in judgment, sir. Act V KK 76/08 stated that the comparison of the content of the article. 76 §. I of the Tax Criminal Code and Art. 286 § l of the Penal Code leads to the obvious conclusion that the first one is a provision of lex specialis in relation to the second. The judgment did not refer to any earlier judgments in this regard. This allowed the possibility of qualifying these offences only on the basis of criminal law, with consequences in the form of e.g. lower risk of penalty or shorter limitation period. This ruling was unfounded and was contrary to the rules in force. It gave a sense of impunity to all VAT mobs and resulted in a sharp increase in VAT fraud. Only 24 January 2013, sygn. Act I KZP 19/12, the Supreme Court adopted a resolution that changed the previous bad practice. He pointed to the need for a coincidence of common and criminal offences. The Committee of Inquiry should also examine whether the PO-PSL coalition has not exceeded the powers and responsibilities of the then Head of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Interesting can turn out to be, for example. a thread of the view expressed by the then Director of the Office for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in a letter dated 27 February 2009 on the necessity of qualifying as such. VAT fraud only on the basis of the provisions of the Tax Criminal Code, as well as the selection of cases at risk of statute of limitations, and order the preparation of alternative applications for penalties based on the provisions of the Tax Criminal Code, which provide for lower penalties. He pointed out that there was no possibility of provisional arrest on the basis of a strict penalty risk. The recommendation of the then Head of the National Public Prosecutor's Office resulted in the redemption of VAT fraud proceedings. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The VAT scandal can be called one of the biggest lootings in Poland's history. This case must be clarified, and the guilty must be judged and punished by the justice system. The Free and Solidarni Circle declares its full support for the parliamentary draft resolution of the establishment of a committee of inquiry on VAT fraud, which took place under the PO-PSL coalition in 2008.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u519	We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Waste Act (prints No. 2550 and 2635). I ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law was examined at the meeting of the Environment Committee. Several amendments were tabled to him, which had, among other things, been tabled. extend the period of entry into force of this law, alleviate a little responsibilities towards entrepreneurs. But these amendments did not fully take into account the interests of the people and social groups who had protested against previous solutions. The committee therefore rejected by a majority all amendments tabled during the committee's meeting, except for the drafting remarks made by the Legislative Bureau. The Committee on the Environment and Natural Resources therefore proposes to the High House to adopt the proposed text of the law, together with the legislative and editorial amendments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u521	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why did this bill ever show up? This is a response to what is happening in at least several cities in Poland, and to what the residents are proposing to be concerned about the operation of certain industrial plants. It turns out that some of the products recognized at some point by the Marshals of the voivodships... They're basically so-called. silent consent, without issuing an administrative decision, and in fact merely and exclusively not considering a request made by some traders, allowed certain products and substances not to be considered as waste, possibly even hazardous waste, only to be considered as a by-product which may be subject to further processing, e.g. burning without special precautions. This causes that in the assessment of a large part of the inhabitants e.g. Mielec or Szczecinka are very serious problems with keeping the air clean. Therefore, they have been demanding for a long time to tighten up the provisions of the Waste Act and environmental protection so that what is happening in such plants can be monitored to a much wider extent than before, because so far only sampling has been possible, in fact, during which it is not always possible to determine what is happening in the plant and what kind of substances, perhaps also dangerous, are coming out of the chimneys. On the other hand, these inhabitants demanded a change in the procedure for granting status so-called. by-product for substances or objects arising from different types of production. That is why Members of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, have tabled a bill that responds to such expectations and tries to address the dangers that already exist. The first part provides for the possibility of monitoring to a much wider extent what kind of substances are escaping in plants that process or burn by-products outside the EU Directive, but the EU Directive allows it to do so. In the second part, however, we significantly modify the way in which decisions are made to treat the substances or products concerned as by-products, i.e. those which do not need to have very tight limits on further processing. Instead of the silent consent of the Marshal, as has been the case so far, we introduce the need for a decision by the Marshal of the Voivodeship and in making this decision the Marshal must be assisted by the opinion of the Regional Environmental Inspector, who in special cases can carry out a check to see what the properties of the product are and whether it can be considered as a by-product, or rather should be treated as waste and then more detailed rules should be applied. We also want to ensure that for all by-products that have been reported in Poland so far, and this possibility exists since 2013, the whole procedure has been resumed, because so far practically all notifications - so it is clear from the Ministry of Environment's data - are issued under silent consent, i.e. there was no administrative decision which clearly indicated what type of products and why they can be considered as by-products. We want to make sure that all permits are verified. If they were reported in accordance with the rules and all the data and studies that had to be carried out at this time will not raise doubts, then the next decision of the Marshal of the voivodship in this case should not raise any doubts and should be issued very quickly. According to the Code of Administrative Procedure, there will be 30 days, and in particularly justified cases, 60 days. The presence of a voivodship environmental inspector is intended to prevent products that are hazardous to human health and the environment from being burned in such a way as to prevent the removal of these fatal or dangerous effects for humans. We want this period during which companies interested in obtaining consent to the treatment of a given substance or product as a by-product to have six months to obtain the consent of the Marshal of the voivodship... We understand that in some situations, if the Marshal's decision is negative, businesses should, of course, be able to appeal against such a decision. Hence, we predict that the Minister of the Environment will be the instance of appeal against the decision of the Marshal's office. We want the law to enter into force as soon as possible, so we are proposing here this traditional 14-day deadline. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a parliamentary club, we propose that this law should be adopted by the High House for reasons of social interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u523	Thank you, sir. Ms Hibner, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding amendments to the Environmental Law and the Waste Act, print No. 2550 and 2635. The purpose of the revision of the legislation is to verify integrated permits and to clarify the procedure for the recognition of objects or substances as a by-product. The authors of the project had a good goal, but as usual, the devil is in the details. It's just an underdeveloped project. In the Environmental Law Act, the proposed provisions give more powers to the Marshal of the voivodship, while in the Waste Act they limit his competence as regards independence in decision-making. The Marshal of voivodship may increase the requirements for integrated monitoring permits if there are particular environmental considerations to do so. However, the Act does not specify what environmental considerations are to be regarded as specific. This imprecise provision will create a problem for both citizens and control services as well as for the licensing authority. In the case of issuing decisions under the amended provisions of the Marshal's Waste Act, this freedom is no longer available in the decision-making process and is linked to the opinion of the Regional Environmental Inspector issued in the form of a provision. This concerns a decision to consider or refuse to recognise an object or substance as a by-product. According to C.P.A. the opinion is merely a supporting material for the adoption of the decision; it must not constitute an order determining its final provisions. In addition, no appeal procedure in the form of a complaint is envisaged from the Regional Environmental Inspector's opinion. In addition, the proposal establishes the status zero and forces any entity that manufactures or uses a by-product to make a new notification, but together with the new documentation needed for the Marshal's decision. As part of the verification, we consider that there is a new notification, and this is also a matter of procedures from the WIA and the Marshal's decision, but it is not understandable to repeat the whole procedure together with documentation and research. In the case of operators making changes in the production process using a by-product or producing a by-product, new studies and documentation are certainly necessary. However, the entire process of obtaining integrated permits, permits from the Regional Environmental Inspector and finally the Marshal's decision lasts 6 months, which makes even in the case of the 24-hour-worker WYŚO, as the Minister said, this time is unrealistic. That is why I am making amendments that will once again make it possible to bend over to this document and give it a chance to verify this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u525	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am very pleased to be present on this platform, because I feel that Parliament is working on this bill. It worked the way it should. Namely, there was a problem, citizens had a problem which they reported through their own actions, through politicians, through Members of all options, they announced it in the media on each side. The government took the initiative, decided that something had to be done about it. Today, the Sejm is dealing with a law that will de facto help people, so Parliament is working and for this reason I am very happy. I would like to thank the citizens, especially the inhabitants of Mielec, Szczecinka, Żar, but also other towns, for their determination to bring them into line with their expectations and inter alia. solve a problem that is not just a problem, for example. producers, but also concerns waste. We still have a lot of work ahead of us, including. According to the Ministry's assurances, we are waiting in the committee, in the subcommittee, for changes to the Regional Environmental Inspectorates. We look forward to transferring more competences, to greater changes in the WYŚ, which will have more tools, but everything is going in the right direction. This law is primarily the end of the so-called law. Silent consent in this area. All administrative consents that have been issued or which will be issued for a few more weeks will be re-examined, so even if someone receives an integrated permit at the end of June, they will have to obtain a new consent within 6 months. At this point I would like to assure and reassure all entrepreneurs: We are not against entrepreneurs, we are not in favour of closing down various types of companies. If, as you assure, your representatives on the committee have been assured, you are smoking biomass, then you have absolutely nothing to fear because you will receive another such consent. However, from this place we say not to make out of Poland a dumpster of Europe. We do not agree, the Polish parliament, the Polish government does not agree that waste will be imported into Poland, otherwise it is not called, post-production from other countries only to have cheaper energy to produce products in Poland. It has already been said that the law is a little underdeveloped here, but it takes time, because in Poland, standards are much lower than in our European neighbours. I hope that someday we will also adjust these standards to the level they have, so that no one can make a dumpster out of us to bring here and burn waste. Because so that new companies will be created, they will grow, let's call it waste management, companies in this field will get richer, pay more taxes, since all of this will be spent on health care and the comfort of life will fall. So there's no such thing as this. In the end, what can I say? I wonder who the Civic Platform represents. You can't not say such a small private here, but because I have another 1 minute 40 seconds, I'll take it. I don't understand who Mrs. Hibner represented. As far as I know that she tried to intercede for entrepreneurs, which is perfectly understandable, I do not understand why the money that entrepreneurs are about to earn puts their business above the health of citizens. It was clear that she was on the side of these entrepreneurs. First of all, at the subcommittee meeting, she voted against this draft law, which Article. 5a makes it clear that it is in these specific environmental considerations that entrepreneurs will have 6 months to obtain a new permit from the Regional Environmental Inspector. I don't understand this action. You say you're on the side of the citizens, you say you share the pain with them and you want to help them. You were eight years old, so much time you ruled. Now you keep saying that, and you're voting differently. It's completely incomprehensible to me, but calmly, people aren't the same as they used to be, they understand, they read more, they can draw their own conclusions. I hope they learn from your actions. At the end of what I can say, Mr President of the subcommittee, I thought it was great to lead, there was discussion, there was a social side allowed, and in my opinion its representatives were very competent, prepared, prostrate towards them. There was this discussion that should be held in Parliament. I am pleased and I hope that this law that we will establish will be observed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u527	Good evening. Thank you, sir. Another speech, this time on behalf of the Modern Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u528	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will refer to Mr Kukiz's populist statement15. I think that this approach to the case, writing a bill on the knee, a bill that meets the needs of some group of their own voters, is just a scam. Because it has to be said that this bill, this amendment, is completely reckless and contains a lot of mistakes, and I'll tell you what it is. The aim is to establish new conditions for an integrated authorisation and to clarify the procedure for considering an object or substance as a by-product, to consider it as a by-product. A similar provision concerning the silent consent of the Marshal of the Voivodship proposed The Senate in the form of an amendment to the draft Waste Act last December. The amendments then assumed that the Marshal of the voivodship would be obliged to issue within 3 months from the date of receipt of the notification from the manufacturer of the object or substances resulting from the production process, a decision regarding the recognition or absence of the object or substance as a by-product. This was also to be done after agreement with the Regional Environmental Inspector. However, the amendment was rejected by the Sejm. We believe that new regulations are needed to help clarify the control of objects and substances arising from the production process and are not always properly categorized as hazardous waste. However, as set out in the proposed new legislation, the process of recognising substances as a by-product in which the Regional Environmental Inspector will be involved as an opinion institution and the Marshal of the voivodship as a decision-making body for a maximum of 10 years has been completely distorted. However, in the course of the work on the project, there were many, often valid, reservations in the committees. As noted by the Polish Towns Association, there is a risk that the imposition of additional environmental monitoring parameters on regional municipal waste treatment facilities may result in an increase in prices for waste management, which may be burdened by residents, i.e. residents will have consequences. Art. 1 of the project introduces the possibility of imposing additional measurement obligations in justified cases, but this provision is very vague. It does not specify the specific environmental considerations invoked by the designer. The impreciseness of the rules in practice implies uncertainty in the legal situation of the addressee of the standard. The justification also does not explain the need to impose stricter requirements than those which apply in Europe, i.e. they are sharper than European law expects us to do. The rule leaves the door open to broad interpretation, which certainly does not serve to create and adopt a law that is intended to serve all citizens. The impreciseness of those provisions giving such broad powers to administrative authorities may result in a breach of freedom of economic activity. I hope you're aware of that. In addition, the rules lack time limits for procedures, which can also impact businesses that are legally active. The proposed regulation is not accompanied by an impact assessment to any extent, which was not formally required, because it is a parliamentary project, and this is such a way to circumvent the requirement to include an impact assessment. According to the project so far, the recognition of an object or substance as a by-product will expire 6 months after the date of entry into force. That means a lot of entrepreneurs... Perhaps there will be about 1,500 new decisions, which can cause paralysis of the institution. The projector did not assess whether, in the face of the relatively difficult situation of voivodship environmental inspectors, whose number of employees leave massly, which in effect directly translates into effectiveness and effectiveness, the proposed regulations will not introduce delays, i.e. simply paralysis. Nor has the impact of the regulation on the possible increase in the amount of waste generated been assessed. The change in waste management regulation in Poland is undoubtedly necessary, but the projector completely missed the stage of the impact assessment which he wants to carry out. Such an assessment is urgently needed in this particular case. The absence of an appeal against a decision is contrary to the principle of a two-instant administrative procedure. It's an art. 78 constitutions. There is a refusal to recognise a given object or substance as a by-product if it is not hazardous waste, but suitable for further use. The provisions thus designed may result in an obligation to dispose of waste contrary to the will of the owner, which also undermines the constitutional guarantee of ownership and freedom of business. The projector did not reflect on excessive state interference [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the economy, these are Article. 20 and 22 constitutions. The project does not bring us closer to solving illegal arson problems of garbage dumps, it does not bring us closer to healthier air. But he's gonna implicate a series of legal ambiguities. In this case, we are unable to support this project. Thank you very much. [[It's a massacre! Disgraceful!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u529	Thank you. Request for corrigendum. Wait a minute, Mr PSL, Mr Maciej Masłowski from Kukiz, 15 with a request for correction. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u530	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! A minute is sufficient, because Mrs Lieder of the Modern Party referred to my statement, in which I criminally assessed the behaviour of Members of the Civic Platform. Right, I didn't mention you, and you also voted in a subcommittee meeting against this bill. [[Applause]] What's more, you claim that the bill was written on your knees and in a hurry. So here's what I'm going to tell you: I don't know how you can write a bill on your knees if it contains 1.5 pages. Your speech, I counted it, it had three pages, it was shorter than this bill. That's once. Two. Apparently, you think it's better to do nothing than do anything. If the bill is at least intended, in its intention, however to help people in their problems, in terms of clean air, e.g. In Mielec, it is reprehensible for me to say that this is hopeless, too fast, too bad, and besides art. 5, and in fact it's the clou of this bill, these are four lines. If you can't figure it out, I don't think there's room for you. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, that's not nice. That's not nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u531	Mr President, I draw your attention because this last sentence has been particularly rude and is really suitable for the ethics committee. [[I'm sorry.]] That's rude behavior. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u532	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are considering, we are analysing, the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Environmental Law and the Law on Waste, prints No. 2550 and 2635. When I listened to the speeches of the rapporteur and my speakers, I wondered, and I kept wondering whether the bill, which, on the one hand, we hear, meets expectations, contains such important content, introduces so many changes and limitations for entrepreneurs, should not be preceded by a public consultation. Why? [[The voice from the hall: Jesus!]] I don't know if it was Jesus to me. I don't feel that high, I'm sorry. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Good. If you can, just let me know. [[Right.]] In this case, will we not once again create the situation that legitimate entrepreneurs will be faced with a fact? We're talking here, and we're trying to respond to social expectations. Let us also always bear in mind what we will cause with our records. Is it not behind these records of overzealousness and searching for new sources of funding, searching for those who are practically difficult to find something by tightening? We ask ourselves whether it would be better to have it as a government project, well consulted, analyzed. I think it would be unreasonable to direct words to the Minister to present a good programme to improve the efficiency of the work of the Environmental Protection Inspections. If we speak and hear at the last point, and here without any hints that we can have effects in the fight for VAT sealing, then why can't we have effects in sealing the waste management system. Why, instead of guarding landfills, we cannot prevent them from being created, but we want to tighten the screw on legal entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! It's all about clean air. I think we need real action, not apparent action. Because how do we assume the government's assumptions regarding the fight against smog and not judge them as provisional actions? On the one hand, one day the government introduces emission levies into the price of fuel, tightens the criteria, and on the other day it is the only day in the European Union to invest in the development of coal energy and reduces the ecological coverage of renewable energy sources. I think we should consider it. For everyone, and for us, it is important to reduce air pollution to take action and take all the factors that will help. How do we refer to the fact that again we have doubts about the effectiveness of local government activities, this time again at the level of the voivodship, and we need to introduce into the mechanism that will function, the supervision and participation of the government factor, the voivodship environmental inspector? Is this gonna make things better? Will it solve the problem? Minister, I'm not saying we won't vote for this bill, but consider this. Let's not take ad hoc solutions. We've already learned here, in this room, that in a month, two months, we're gonna be dating and updating regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's do something good once, make it permanent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u533	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to add themselves to the list of questions at this point? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. He begins to ask questions by Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15 One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u534	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I hear these statements just now - the statements of some of your fellow Members - it simply falls down. You are counting trees that were allegedly cut down by a seemingly evil lex Szyszko, and you can't see Poles who lost their health or their lives as a result of the emission of harmful substances. Economic freedom is a good freedom until it strikes people. It's just obvious. It was clear that these provisions of this law do not agree with those who will act honestly or honestly, in accordance with the rules. And the Polish rules are just softer than elsewhere. Minister, I have a question: What tools will he receive - because they are not - the Environmental Protection Inspection so that the provisions of this law can be effectively enforced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u535	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[And Mr Rometsky?]] There'll be a third.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about a law on waste which proposes to clarify the procedure for the recognition of an object or substance as a by-product, while indicating that this recognition is carried out by an administrative decision. Any clarification or clarification is important. However, I believe that all waste is hazardous and that it should be fully controlled. Of course, the extent of the harm will vary. Some will be more, others will be less harmful to man. About the fact that there is a lot of so-called in Poland. wild dumps, all of us know. Therefore, using today's discussion, while at the same time realizing that I am running a little bit beyond the content of this law, I would like to know if we are going to have such solutions in terms of waste management, which will eliminate all wild landfills. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u537	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. Please, now the Member is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u538	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My clubmate Mr Masłowski rightly stated that Poland has become a dump of Europe in recent years. Dumpster in its entirety, not just as a storage and storage place imported from everywhere garbage and waste for disposal. It has become a garbage dump as a result of the failure to act on behalf of the public services concerned, but also of targeted legislation in this area. Undoubtedly, such an area of targeted legislation is the issue of integrated permits. As a result of the adoption of a provision concerning the so-called. The silent consent of many economic operators operated outside any control area and emitted harmful substances to humans. This amendment to the environmental law and waste legislation prevents this from happening, but the problem remains with the so-called "environmental law." standards defining the parameters and indicators of the substances emitted. Polish legislation is much milder in this respect than in the European Union. Does the Ministry of the Environment provide for their adaptation to the standards in force e.g. in Austria, so that it does not pay to import substances which in Poland are treated as a by-product and not as waste intended only for disposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I would like to say so from myself: By God! How can you poison your people and poison the environment for silver? I don't care about the poisoners' business, people's health is important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u539	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u540	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state that the Civic Platform will support this project. [[Applause]] I would also like to state that Mr Butterwski has gone into such an inhospitable populism. I would like to say to Mr Masłowski that this is not the Civic Platform, it was not the Marshal from the Civic Platform who issued the integrated permit for Mielec. You gave them to Marshal Ortyl of Law and Justice, so in this case, he had the tools in his hands. Your statement shows that you do not understand that we have accepted that this is the first step. Mrs Hibner and Mrs Lieder pointed out the shortcomings of this law in this first step. We expect step two from the Minister of Environment. Minister in May this year. He promised in Mielec that by the end of July there would be a bill and there would be continuous monitoring. I want to tell you that I think you're gonna be running out of time to make this statement happen if you have a government project and there's a consultation, and an impact assessment is required for every bill. We're all for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that Mielec has continuous monitoring, and we are in favour of applying directives and practices resulting from the BAT Directive. Once again, I declare that the Platform Club takes this as a first step and supports this project. [[Applause]] [[Who gave us the marshal's name?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u541	And one last question at this point. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here are some questions that need to be addressed to the Minister. First of all, Minister, will this bill allow for continuous monitoring of plants that burn by-products? This has not been possible so far, and the rules adopted under the EU Directive have in principle prevented this. Item two, very important not only from the point of view of this law, but in general for the sake of cleanliness and environmental protection and from the point of view of the employees of this institution, i.e. Environmental Protection Inspections. Are legal solutions being prepared - will they be in the near future - which will allow for a significant increase in the funding of this institution in order to, for example, raise the wages of workers, but also to increase employment significantly? Further tasks - imposed e.g. this law, and I know that a law is also being prepared to solve the problem of burning landfills or landfills, and it also imposes very serious obligations on this institution - without a significant increase in resources it will be rather difficult to implement. Finally, question three. There's this kind of defense of business here. Do those who act in accordance with the law who apply environmental regulations have anything to fear after the adoption of this law? Is it possible, for example? reproduction of the documentation they submitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] a few months ago or a few years ago, an applicant for permission from a marshal to consider a given substance or product as a by-product? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u543	Thank you, sir. With this question, we've finished asking questions. The answer to this question and to earlier I ask very much of the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u544	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion of this law is a little strange because the Civic Platform has tabled a set of amendments that really abolish this law. I am very pleased with Mrs Skowronska's declaration, which says that this bill will be supported, but I hope that all the amendments made by the Platform will be rejected. If we were to accept Amendment 1, which removes the amendment of Article. 211 by adding the possibility of continuous monitoring, it would actually make no sense in this regard, because it proposes two solutions. Enabling continuous monitoring is one solution of this law, and the other is a very clear and precise definition of the procedure for recognising and separating waste and by-product. As far as continuous monitoring is concerned - here I will answer these questions at the same time - it is, of course, that it has not been applied so far, because the BAT Directive speaks about periodic monitoring or controls. Marshal Ortył, Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodship, imposed a continuous monitoring obligation in his integrated permit and his decision was repealed because this was not provided for by Polish law. The marshal wanted to sort it out, solve the problem, and he couldn't, because the law didn't allow it, hence. is a solution that is very expected by the Mielec environment, but not only. It will allow for continuous monitoring, although it does not impose such an obligation, because it also has to weigh obstacles for entrepreneurs depending on the situation in which they occur. So this continuous monitoring will only be applied for specific reasons when it comes to environmental protection. Another thing is to recognise or determine how to define by-product and waste. Here we define these conditions precisely - not as so far, on the basis of silent consent. The amendments to this solution, of course, also make it actually this law and this amendment would not make any sense. We need to be clear about this. Here I address Mrs Lieder from Modern. I understand that something may not like it, but you said in the first sentence that it was going in the right direction, and then you criticized everything, she said it wasn't good for anything, and she had a lot of mistakes. I haven't heard of any mistake. Let's make up our minds. If... [[Voice from the room: There were very specific things.]] [[No, it was a two-way street.]] I'm explaining it now. Two-instant, here you go. If you read this bill carefully, you would know that there is no appeal against the decision of the Regional Environmental Inspector. There is no appeal order. The order is really about the results of the research, so what do we appeal against? Is it because the test results are one or another? It's not debatable. On the other hand, the Marshal's decision concerning the integrated authorisation is subject to the appeal procedure and the Board of Appeal in the case of the Marshal's decision is the Minister of the Environment. So everything's okay. What is this mistake? I don't understand. There is no decision of YOU, from which there is no appeal, in fact, but this is not a decision, this is a decision. Another thing is to say that there are so many integrated permits and in six months it is absolutely impossible to implement. I'll just remind you that at the moment there are 1188 permits that actually lose within six months... I mean, permits. Decisions concerning a by-product that will actually lose its status. Consider that there are 16 voivodships. If we care about the Environmental Protection Inspection, which actually functions a little bit in the old voivodship structures, because they are so-called. Regional environmental inspection delegations, there are about 40 such delegations that have laboratories, it's actually 30 per cent each. Will they all be tested? No, because some of them don't raise any doubts. It will be almost from the vending machine, but at the same time it will be required by the Environmental Protection Inspection. The Marshal won't make a decision, it'll be a silent agreement. I'm sure these tests will be less, easy. If there's 30 tests for six months, any regional environmental inspector will be perfectly able to handle it. So it is not excessive regulation or excessive burden for entrepreneurs. Of course, entrepreneurs will have to verify, but there is no other option. If we want to open a new card, we have to set the time to which it functions and then we verify it. An honest entrepreneur, once again, has really nothing to fear, even if he is examined by the Environmental Protection Inspection by his by-product or waste. If it's okay, it'll be a formality. If it's not okay if he said it was a by-product, and he wasn't a by-product, he was just a waste, maybe containing a lot of harmful substances, then it's better that he doesn't call it a by-product. That's the explanation. Now a few more answers to the questions that have been asked. As for the decision, I hope I've explained. Public consultation. Of course, the parliamentary project, according to the... Mrs Skowrońska was also present at the Municipal Council in Mielec. Then we both made declarations. I said that we would introduce this by the end of July, although the amendments are very disturbing. If there were no amendments, tomorrow would be a vote. The Commission must gather either early in the morning or at night to give an opinion on these amendments. Tomorrow's vote is at stake. Indeed, this July is not threatened, but the law could be ready by June. And so through the actions and amendments of the Civic Platform maybe the bill will be a month later. But according to my declaration, it will be fulfilled. Of course, it is not a government project, because in the case of a government project it would not be fulfilled, I am fully aware of that. On the other hand, as far as public consultation is concerned, they have been carried out in a very thorough manner - both in consultation with entrepreneurs and in public consultation, in consultation with the public. Personally, I was in Mielec, like Mrs Szczecin, where there were the biggest problems with air cleanliness, with emissions, as the inhabitants claim, harmful substances. Whether they are harmful, continuous monitoring and environmental research will show. Then we can be sure that there will be a repair, or we can really calm the inhabitants and say: yes, research has shown that these substances and these emissions are not harmful. Here I don't understand very much that we reach as a government for some new sources of funding. This law really doesn't go anywhere for any sources of funding. We don't want to take money for someone to exceed their emissions. We want it not to exceed those emissions. No money. That's not enough, there's gonna be an expense, because the Environmental Protection Inspection is actually gonna need more personnel, more labs to check it out. And here I am calming down - not in this bill, but in the government project we propose to reform the Environmental Protection Inspection. There's been rehearsals, that's right. Let me remind you that a year ago it was very ridiculous that it was environmental police, green police, etc. If it weren't for this ridicule, this attack, we'd probably have a much bigger order by now. And today I read in the Gazeta Wyborcza, that the idea of green police is very good. But then it got in the way. Today's atmosphere is that it doesn't really bother you anymore. We are really proposing to strengthen staffing, increase the number of inspectors by 50%, bring environmental inspectors to 24 hours' work, also significantly increase the financial resources for the Environmental Inspection, which is natural. It's also about laboratory equipment, etc. Of course, there are also control tools, law enforcement tools, etc. But I don't want to go into details. A really comprehensive solution. It's already on the government project. I hope that the government will adopt this law in the next dozen days and still in July, I hope, in two sittings of the Sejm, that Parliament will be able to adopt these laws. Mr Maciejewski asked if all wild landfills would be eliminated. Probably not all of them, because someone can always throw a garbage truck somewhere at any time, but we hope that the number of these wild dumps operating illegally will be very, very limited. It's like tax fraud. Are we absolutely sure that all taxes have been sealed and all extortion has been eliminated? No, but as the financial impact shows, the vast majority of frauds have been limited. That's probably how it's gonna be with the waste dumps. Mr Stefan Romecki spoke about environmental standards being the same as in the European Union. Yeah, they're generally like that, they're never lower. Some countries apply higher standards at home, but we apply what is a duty in the European Union. In fact, they are sometimes lower than in other countries. This provision on continuous monitoring is also not a requirement of European law, because periodic checks are a requirement. But each country has the right to apply more stringent measures - among others. enabling continuous monitoring is, in this case, a sharper measure. I hope that this project will help to solve extremely serious problems, especially those that have been highlighted in Mielec, in Szczecin and other cities, but it will also give certainty and such confidence about having a clean conscience for those entrepreneurs who behave honestly on the market, who really have nothing to fear. It is not a question of limiting any economic activity, but of ensuring that this economic activity is conducted under conditions of fair competition and, at the same time, that economic activity does not cause harm in terms of human health. And that's what's important. Because if we're thinking about protecting the environment, about the environment, let's remember that the most important element of the environment is man, and caring about him is the most important thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u545	Does the committee rapporteur, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, want to speak? [[Yes, please.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u546	Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this discussion there were similar themes to those in the subcommittee and committee discussions and the rations of the inhabitants concerning the clean environment, in particular clean air, as well as the rations of some of those defending entrepreneurs who were supposedly limited in the possibility of doing business. Once again, it must be made clear that these restrictions concern primarily those who may not act in accordance with the law. Today we cannot say this without the adoption of this law, which will allow for, for example, this continuous monitoring, which you have already asked for several times, and in the committee, and in the Parliament's Chamber, has advocated. Without this record, we are unable to eliminate parts of the threats to the health and life of the inhabitants, and yet smog, clean air are the slogans that appear in public space just from the country's groups very often, hence, to be honest, I am a little surprised by the club speeches of these two groups, which quite strongly criticised this law. After all, she solves a huge part of the problems that you also talk about on other occasions. I was also surprised to conclude that this law will lead to an increase in waste. If it turns out that a substance - which for now is treated as a by-product, which is burned without any precautions, without any filters that remove harmful substances - will be treated not as a by-product, but as waste, the better it is for the environment and human health, because waste, especially hazardous waste, must be handled in particular. In order to disable it, you need to have a special technology, without which, for example. You can't burn this product, and you'd like me to... One of the representatives of entrepreneurs said this in the committee in this way: we fear that it will not be possible to burn in boiler rooms at these plants, for example. particle board and waste. It's the same as someone who smokes plastic and all kinds of garbage in a house oven, said: I'm afraid that the state today, through the Seym laws, will introduce a ban on smoking garbage in domestic ovens. It's just that a resident like that is gonna burn those waste or garbage like a kilo, and in a big plant, it's not a kilo anymore, it's a ton, thousands of tons. And you're criticizing this bill for wanting to eliminate the incineration of such hazardous waste. It's just a psychic. At the same time, your group often says that it is in favour of environmental protection. Well, at least something's not right here and it's illogical. Similarly, I was somewhat surprised by the fact that this law is supposed to lead to some new sources of funding - I do not know what it really is, because there is no question of any additional fees to be paid by entrepreneurs and which would go to the state budget at least. There is only the question of clarifying the rules and making a clear and transparent administrative decision, which will clearly state in which cases a product may possibly be incinerated without taking special precautions. There was a public consultation question. Indeed, the parliamentary project does not require a very broad public consultation, but it was time for everyone concerned to express their views. Some sent practically the day after this draft law appeared in print, which was posted on the seym website, their opinions. Of course, some of these opinions, especially on the part of entrepreneurs, were negative, indicating some of the elements that you were talking about here today. The same people or the same representatives of business associations also participated in the meeting of the subcommittee, they could freely speak and articulate their doubts. The same could be done by representatives of the inhabitants of these several cities that we have been talking about today in this Parliament hall, so it is hard to argue that this law was adopted without consulting all those concerned. Those doubts that you have sometimes mentioned here have resonated. We tried to explain, also representatives of the Ministry of the Environment tried to explain once again that an honest entrepreneur who had complete documentation showing that a given substance or product met the conditions that would allow them to be considered a by-product that is not harmful to the environment and life or health of the inhabitants, might be calm, may not be afraid of a new procedure, because he will simply repeat the procedure he had some time ago. After all, the research he did with the technology he was using has not lost its validity, because he did not change this technology. Therefore, there is no need to fear that he will have to do some additional research, unless there were some mistakes in the documentation he had previously submitted to one of the marshals' offices, there were some understatements. The Marshal does not really have the instruments to see if all the technical data contained in this type of documentation are true. Only the Environmental Protection Inspection, which has at least laboratories, is able to check whether or not to verify part of the data provided by certain entrepreneurs, because the control we are talking about here is not to be applied to any process of applying for the Marshal's consent to consider the substance as a by-product, but rather to be used in specific situations. And here we come to another element, which you are repeating here again. It's about business concerns. What's so-called. specific environmental conditions? We talked about the fact that it is difficult to create a closed directory that will take into account all possible situations in which the environment may be in some way threatened. Creating each closed directory causes, however, somewhere there are gaps. And what, then we're going to create a new bill so that one or the other doubts can be eliminated again? Hence, this quite broad provision allows the Environment Inspection to approach this in a way that does not make life difficult for entrepreneurs, while at the same time protecting the lives and health of residents. There were also suggestions here that the time to obtain new consent should be clearly extended to treat a substance as a by-product. The law is still talking about a six-month period, so in these several cities we have been talking about today, unfortunately residents for at least 6 months plus possibly it's about cancellations, so perhaps even a dozen months, they will still have to endure the situation in which some plants emit dangerous substances into the atmosphere. And you, some of you, would like to extend this time by another six months. In general, it seemed to me that most of us in this Chamber, regardless of political views, put the lives and health of the inhabitants above the doubts of some entrepreneurs who do not necessarily want to care for the lives and health of the inhabitants and for the clean environment. Therefore, it seems that the arguments of some entrepreneurs, especially those who fear that they will not receive a new consent to accept the substance as a by-product, have been accepted by the States - I hope that only in good faith - as arguments worth applying in the case of this law. In the committee, however, the concern for the health and life of the inhabitants was clearly - and here, fortunately, during the discussion also from most clubs. I hope that the majority of the Sejm will also consider that it is the health and life of the inhabitants that is much more important, and that it is necessary to give the State instruments so that the health and life of the inhabitants and citizens of our country can take care of it, will prevail, and this law will be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u547	Let's start with the corrigendums. Mrs Skowrońska, Civic Platform. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u548	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I don't think you understood what I said, so I would like to clarify this because your declaration sounded like the government was going to submit and adopt a solution for continuous monitoring for the holidays. There was no mention of this law - we will support this law - but it was about the launch of tools which will be under the responsibility of the regional environmental inspectors, so that after a vacation, i.e. During the holidays, in the month of July there was the possibility of continuous testing, this monitoring. Why? Because in Mielec there was just a situation that one of the tests at a later verification showed that the permitted standards were exceeded. By the way, the rapporteur played the last part. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the role of the applicant, he explained, because there were no questions to the Member in this regard. I think that would be the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u549	And one more corrigendum. Mrs Ewa Lieder, please, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u550	Dear Marshal! I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister partially understood me. I said at first, this is the right direction. As you know, I have spoken many times about environmental protection, clean air and how important it is for our lives, for our children's lives. But, ladies and gentlemen, we all have such a responsibility that we must make a wise law. The opposition's task is to criticize what we do together, so that this law has a well-made effect of regulation, so that it is reasonable to include all citizens and that it is fair, not populist, written quickly for some social group. It is very important what air we breathe, but let us be aware that we treat entrepreneurs as black peoples who also [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're citizens who breathe... So we don't fire a kid with a bath under these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u551	Minister, are you still here? No. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u552	I would like to ask the Members of the applicant whether they have knowledge of the solutions prepared by the Ministry of the Environment regarding the slogan expressed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki: we will chase out the garbage mafia. He predicted that within two weeks, regulations would be prepared to tighten up the operation of landfills. He also said, and it was 29 May 2018, that regulations allowing the import of waste into Poland will be amended, but also concerning increased controls and stricter penalties for importers. I understand that a group of applicants, concerned about the garbage economy in our country, is probably also aware of the fate of the legislation being prepared to deal with legislative changes in the authorisation or control and penalties for landfills, and I will know when we will be able to proceed with the ready solutions. Let me just add that the two-week period, mentioned by the Prime Minister, expired on 12 June 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u553	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. You are starting with Alexander Forczynski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few days, children and young people in primary school, middle school and secondary school will receive a promotion to the next classes and will finish their schooling in 2017/2018. In the first year of school after the reform of the teaching system, the first year of return to an old, proven system of education in 8 years of elementary school, 4 years of high school and 5 years of technical school. This is also the second school year when children start their primary school at the age of 7. Many fears were related to reform, many bad and false words were uttered by opponents of return to normality in the Polish school to the authors of the reform. No worries have come true. There were no mass layoffs of teachers, on the contrary, several thousand jobs arrived. As a multi-annual teacher, teacher and secondary school director, I am very happy to see positive changes in the teaching system of Polish children and young people. I see on the example of many students that these changes restore normality in the education system and are primarily aimed at the student's well-being. Dear Teachers! I would like to thank you all very much for your hard work and your work at school. I know how hard and demanding this job is, and I know how much effort it takes for you to prepare well for your lessons to interest your students. That is why I thank you with all my heart for your work, for your commitment. Go on a well-deserved vacation vacation. I wish you all a rest and strength and new ideas to start working in September. Dear Students! Congratulations on your promotions and good grades. I'm happy for you guys for your holiday. Use this time for safe rest, for learning, but not like at school, for learning without a board, without a teacher, but with nature, parents and friends. Rest and learn geography, learn the nature of the visited places, make new acquaintances, friendships, learn to work in a colonial or camp group. I'm sure you can use that skill in your daily lives. Openness to others, new acquaintances and experiences will allow you to spend a pleasant holiday. I also address my wishes to the staff of the school administration, thanking you for your hard and underappreciated work. I'm sure you won't have a vacation like students and teachers. For you, it's time for renovations, maintenance, thorough cleaning at school. Thank you for your efforts, for your work and your sacrifice. Once again I address the students: Dear students, rest safely. Please make your vacation great for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u555	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Silent night, steamy June, Poland rests in a blissful dream. I, by my parliamentary custom, shyly knock on your door to reflect with you on further matters that seem important enough to share them with you as part of the message. Sometimes the topic of our conversation brings daily wrestling with understanding of events that absorb us here and now. Sometimes, however, these are, like today, issues from distant history that are so important that they are imprinted with unfailing pain and sadness in the consciousness of the nation. It was the first such transport. Confused heartlessly, stuffed beyond measure to cattle freight wagons, without knowing where they're going and whether they'll ever come back. Above them was the cry of children, the silent murmur of prayer and the shouting of SS men to change with the growling and yawning of German dogs who felt in their animal nature consent to rape, cruelty and death. This first transport carried 782 Polish residents to the Auschwitz concentration camp. To remember this event, the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of German Nazi Concentration Camps and Holocaust Camps was adopted. This day falls today. I'm sure no one ever imagines how much he can endure until he doesn't face the necessity. Similarly, few can imagine what beasts people are willing to commit. And regardless of how relevant the reflections of Ortega y Gasseta on the dehumanization of human nature or the confirmed Zimbard effect of Lucifer are, they also do not in any way invalidate the second nature of human existence described by Anna Pawełczyńska in the Hydra Head or Wanda Przełtawska in her memories and I am afraid of dreams. The degeneration of people, their propensity to do evil or to become an effective instrument of evil was not powerful enough to suffocate the glorious, heroic acts, even miraculous in its inexplicable nature of salvation. If I mention in this context For example, the figure of St. Maximilian Kolbe or rtm. Witold Pilecki, it is in fact my opinion that there is no circumstance that would prevent us from maintaining our highest moral standards and doing everything to avoid detracting human dignity and respect for ourselves and others. You'll say words. It's easy to say that by being comforted by the unimaginableness of the finality of concentration camps and extermination camps. The only thing that's really good for us right now is to barely touch the anticipation of this state. It doesn't burn like a bull's smear through the back, it doesn't burn like a fireplace crematorium, it doesn't choke like a permanent hunger, which puts the body in the position of an embryo as if a natural search for the memory of a mother's safe womb. Physical pain, hunger, cold, disease, German, SS pedantry in the act of murder and even a taste in the ritual of murder is the everyday life of concentration camps. It would be unbearable if it weren't for the hope that this nightmare couldn't last forever, that there would be days without bars, pain, and mortal terror. You fall into a stupor: don't feel, don't hear, don't see, it can't be real. You're looking for a way out. Prayer, fleeting intimacy with another prisoner, searching for a substitute for human instincts in this mess of beasty and murder. How do we survive? And if so, why, if everyone else has gone to the crematorium. [[♪ The bell ♪]] God, you see and you don't thunder! Death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, death, Eternal rest please give them, Lord.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u557	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, but also of the entire government, to the very difficult, even dramatic situation in the soft fruit market. This problem concerns the whole country, but in a special way Lublin region. According to data from the Lublin Statistical Office in 2016, production of raspberries in the Lublin Voivodeship represented 82.8% the total domestic production. In the district of Kraśnicki, the production of raspberries takes place about 5 thousand. growers. Raspberry plantations take up nearly 4.5,000. ha. The crops are about 36 and 40 thousand. t fruit per year, which accounts for almost half of total domestic production. Kraśnicki County is the largest raspberry hole in the country and one of the two largest in Europe. Farmers growing raspberries, strawberries and other soft fruits to modernise their crops, buy machines, start irrigation systems, often invest in plantations with large amounts of money, and borrow for this purpose. However, at the beginning of this year's season the price of fruit is very low. In the case of raspberries, it is only 2 zlotys per kg, the gooseberry was bought in at 40.50 gr per kg. In the case of raspberries it is three times less than two years ago, and gooseberries - even six times less than last year. In both cases, this is well below the cost of production. This may be the case with many factors. There are votes about price conspiracy and imports of fruit from across the eastern border. In addition, the lack of hands for work is also very often imposed on the difficult price situation. I therefore call on the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development to take decisive action to support soft fruit growers, especially since their condition, including their financial condition, has a very real, very strong impact on the local economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u559	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u560	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The school year 2017/2018 will soon be completed by children and young people. The new year, 2018/2019, will begin with the launch by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of another aid scheme for families, named "Good start," 300 for the student. It aims to relieve domestic budgets, and often expenditure on child equipment, preparing them for school education. The information given by the Prime Minister and Minister of Rafalska was certainly pleased by thousands of Polish families, although there are incomprehensible voices confusing the validity of this decision. This last decision of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy concerns almost 5 million children, i.e. three times the number of inhabitants of Warsaw. The cost of performance is estimated at about PLN 1.4 billion per year. Applications for benefits can be submitted as early as 1 July, initially by road online, through the website of the family ministry and through electronic banking, and from 1 August already by traditional, paper road. Applications shall be submitted by 30 November. High Izbo! Oldgarden, inhabitants of the district of Oldgard, to which I refer again! For almost 3 years the Polish government has consistently implemented what it promised in the election campaign. Bet on a family to have a sense of security and constant care of the state. It's happening right in front of us. When I was running for the Sejm, I shared with the voters the concern and regret that Polish families themselves had to cope with the difficulties of life, which were the lack of work at the time, so-called. junk work contracts and high maintenance costs. Offices, state policy stood back to the citizens. This contributed to mass emigration. Today we are dealing with a very different phenomenon. The created law, the pace of implementation of reforms cause that Polish families, Poles, are surprised by the fact that one can live differently, that one can live at a decent level, that politicians prepare the law, which finally nobilitates the family. Jan Zamoyski said: "This is the kind of things that will be common to their youth to hide..." You have to understand, you have to want to understand. There were many reforms to the education system, but there was not a proper and reliable system of care for the family. Finally, after many years of poverty, poverty in many dimensions, there is a change. By the way, I wish all teachers, teachers, educational staff and all schoolchildren all the best. Congratulations on completing the next stages of science, often and life stages, e.g. graduation, congratulations on sports results and everything that gave satisfaction and pride. I wish you a well-deserved rest, wonderful summer days, safe holidays. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u561	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during the examination in this Chamber of the report of the committee on the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence, an event took place which, in my opinion, does not support the seriousness of this Chamber. One MEP, representing one of the parliamentary clubs, in his grief God's speech allowed himself to challenge certain prerogatives of the highest office in Poland, the office of the President of the Republic of Poland. We debated the draft of the above mentioned law, and this Member, having no substantive, moral or any other competence, questioned the President's power. A Member of the Republic who questions the highest authority of the state is something extraordinary. A Member who is to uphold the legal order is questioning this order. A Member who calls himself a man of culture has expressed it in a way that has nothing to do with a culture. But his culture is his business and will be judged by Poles. On the other hand, the content and presentation of the position is a denial not only of culture as such, but also of any rules applicable to every citizen of the state, but already to parliamentarians above all. I'm just embarrassed that those were the words that came out of that podium. And already a curious element of this gibberish was the creation of a list of people entitled to receive this medal and on their behalf not to accept it. I hope that the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union will deal with this speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u563	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u564	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On past Saturday and Sunday, June 9th and 10th, the streets of Polish cities passed marches for life and family. Marches are organized to defend traditional values, respect for life, respect for the social foundation of the family. The fate of the family, its freedom, its prosperity and its future for the next decades depend on how she raises her children. The day of march is the day on which all: mothers, fathers, grandmothers, and grandparents, young and older people say what matters to them, what future they have chosen for themselves and for the generations to come. We must emphasize it, we must show it boldly, proudly and with our foreheads raised we celebrate the day of the family, which itself is priceless, the most perfect, the only one. The warm and joyful atmosphere of the walkway should be highlighted. Participants feel appreciated and warmly welcomed. Marches for life and family build awareness of the community, integrate and give a sense of unity. Marches organize environments of defenders of life and family. This year they passed or will pass in 150 Polish cities. We thank you for this, for your initiative and your efforts. It's an invaluable experience, we have to stay in faith and tradition, respect for life and humanity. Courage and responsibility for today and for the future is a matter for all of us. The foundations on which society is based cannot be underestimated. These inalienable values allowed us, Poles, to survive the partitions and wars. This must be borne in mind, especially this year, the year of the century of regaining independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u565	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our Seym is really an extraordinary place. Today, the High House has been shaken by a debate completely meaningless. Well, a committee of inquiry has been set up to answer a number of questions that have been well known and known for years. A committee of inquiry has been set up. VAT fraud, which will answer such questions. The questions we know are well-known for what they should sound like. So first of all, the committee is to consider the reasons for VAT fraud. The answer to this question has been well known and known for years. Basically, there are two reasons, as everyone will say, even in a fairly well-informed way, for tax advisors. Firstly, the different VAT rates, secondly, the zero rate for exports, i.e. at the border. In addition, the committee will answer the question of who is guilty of such fraud at all. The answer has been widely known and known for years. The fault is who created the VAT Directives, who created the VAT system, and it is in the EU option. The authors of this directive are responsible for this. If the committee wants to pursue them, let it go to Brussels, conduct a proper investigation and draw consequences on the originators. The committee will then answer the questions why since 2007 the VAT gap has been growing and fraud and VAT carousels have increased. The answer is quite clear and obvious, because in 2004 we entered the European Union and VAT mechanisms, just VAT in the EU option, came into force and, as a result, exactly the same phenomena have come to us, which have been common in the European Union countries for many, many years. There were the same problems, the same ways of avoiding or extorting VAT. We have simply imported this problem, just as we have imported EU solutions. Then the committee will probably try to answer the question of how to deal with these problems, how to deal with VAT fraud, VAT carousels. And here again the answer is obvious and known for years. There are two possible solutions. You can either seal the system very much or completely change it, and you have to immediately notice that very strong sealing of the system will actually cause - because it must cause - that many honest taxpayers will have so many problems and difficulties in clearing VAT and so many obligations that it will actually affect their business. The second solution, which is a fundamental change in the tax system, would actually have to be that we move away from VAT to other solutions, for example. turnover tax, for example in the United States. Then the committee will probably answer the question of how to proceed with extortion. The answer is obvious and known for years, because these mechanisms are widely known in Europe and will probably also be known to us. Simply extortion, VAT carousels will move from one industry to another. In those sectors where they have been blocked, there may be fewer, but in others, in particular. in services, they will certainly develop beautifully. Finally, the question is, who should bear the consequences, who is personally responsible for all these phenomena. Of course, the answer is clear and predictable. The Commission will certainly answer that the citizens' platform politicians are guilty of being the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Civic Platform, even though the Law and Justice, when it was in power and was, for example. in 2007, it has done nothing to prevent such mechanisms of extortion or carousel, even though they have been known for years in other European countries. High Izbo! Then why did this committee really arise? For a very simple reason. This is because MEPs do not fully know about VAT. If they knew him, they wouldn't be calling a committee or asking such stupid questions as this committee is about to answer. What's the point of this committee? No. It might as well make sense to set up a committee to examine the number of sides of a triangle or the number of legs in a horse, and perhaps even such a committee would make more sense. So, High Izbo, unfortunately, another waste of time and only beating political foam. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Besides, I think the U.S.S.S. should be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-14-sejm-64-1.u567	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 15 June 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 40]]
