ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on the thirty-seventh anniversary of martial law, let's honor his victims. Those who died in unexplained circumstances, who carried out opposition activities, organized aid for the victims and participated in patriotic demonstrations. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims of communist power. [[Everybody up.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[And they're in our memory.]] Thank you very much. In accordance with yesterday's announcement, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 and considering this item as a item on the 20th agenda; the Act amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for housing purposes into the property right of these land and consider this item as item 21 of the first agenda; the Act amending certain laws to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services and to consider this item as the twenty-second agenda; the Law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care and consider this item as item twenty-third of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents and consider this item as item twenty-four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. We begin to consider item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of Maria Szymanowska. I would like to warmly welcome the President of the Association of Maria Szymanowska, Mrs Elżbieta Zapolska-Chappelle, present at the meeting. I would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and is included in print No 758, and the report in print No 758 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I am pleased to present a report from the Legislative Commission, which is the result of the Commission's report on Migration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Means of Transmission of a proposal for a resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of Maria Szymanowska. Following the adoption of the amendment at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the committee adopted a proposal for a resolution. Let me present this resolution to you. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of Maria Szymanowska. In December 2019 the 230th anniversary of Maria Szymanowska's birth takes place The first professional pianist and composer of European fame, undoubtedly the most outstanding and most effective ambassador of Polish culture in the 19th century. During the period of fights and diplomatic efforts to regain independence by Poland, Maria Szymanowska, together with a group of activists focused on the Royal Society of Science Friends, the then University of Warsaw and National Theatre, actively participated in supporting and promoting Polish culture, composing and performing mazurkas and polonaises, historical songs to Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz's texts and patriotic songs related to the fight of Polish legionaries alongside Napoleon. She was also the first to write music to several ballads of Adam Mickiewicz, thus contributing to the promotion of his works and his ideas. Thanks to her extraordinary pianist craftsmanship and artistic expression, she became a widely appreciated, even admired pianist throughout Europe, performing in the largest European concert halls, and her works produced the most prestigious music releases. During her tour, Maria Szymanowska also celebrated the beauty of her mother's music, intertwining the compositions and performances of elements from the Polish music tradition, expressing her relationship with Polishness. After her concert in Marienbad, the great Goethe wrote: "Mrs Szymanowska gave me a lot of joy in recent days with her Polish lightness. Behind this Slavic order lies an unimaginable talent that borders on madness. A talent that many could overwhelm if it weren't for a combination of grace and forgiveness. And after a concert in Moscow in 1827 Adam Mickiewicz made an eloquent entry into her album: "On any world you shined in the end, you [...] bow your heads in immortal leaves [...] Well, you'll think, when suddenly one sound of incompatible and wild [...] Queen of tones will come out of the cherubs of the disease! You welcome him kindly, he's an old friend of yours. It's the sound of Polish language. Maria Szymanowska left about 120 piano pieces, including mazurkas, polonaises, preludes, fights, marches, nocturnes, as well as vocal songs for texts by Mickiewicz, Shakespeare, Cervantes, Pushkin or Niemcewicz. The music created and performed by her fascinated, among others. Goethe, Schuman, Chopin, Glinka, thus affecting European art. It is time to restore this great and unusual personality not only to Polish, but also to the European and world pantheon of music and culture. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating its contribution to the Polish culture and the whole of Europe, as well as its dedication to the Polish cause, establishes 2019 as the Year of Maria Szymanowska. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Can I speak?]] In the middle of a discussion already? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes.]] Well, here you go. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: If no one...]] ...he reported it. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Good.]] You're welcome, as part of the discussion... There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would simply like to supplement this resolution with some data, which will undoubtedly bring you closer to Maria Szymanowska's figure, because I think it is worth doing so. First of all, we from Mazowsze can be proud because she was born in Mazowsze, Warsaw. From Wołowska's house. As the resolution passed, she was born on 14 December, which means tomorrow will be the two hundred twenty-nineth anniversary and in 2019 the two hundred and thirtyth anniversary. She came from a rather modest family, because her father ran a brewery in Walicow, or Warsaw, in one of the former districts. He was the one who put Maria Szymanowska on music education from her early years, seeing her as a talented pianist. And in 1810. Mary married Józef Szymanowski, a landowner in Otwock with whom she had three children The twins and daughter of Celina, the future wife of Adam Mickiewicz. After a short marriage and a break-up with her husband as one of the few women at the time, she herself supported the family, devoted herself to her musical career and having more and more success as a pianist and composer. She carried out intensive propatriotic activities, engaging with other people of culture and Polish politicians in the matter of regaining independence. She also ran a political lounge where European politicians and politicians fought to restore Poland. She had a great influence on the work of young Frederick Chopin, who tried to attend all her concerts. I would like to add just two quotes, entries after her concerts of various outstanding representatives... One short quote reads: Ms.Szymanowski's piano game is associated with lightness, glow and tender tenderness, especially the right Polish nationality in the game and musical composition. And a quote from Jan Śniadecki, who after a concert in Vilnius wrote this: "The old Pole will not die without consolation, when the great talents born on the Polish soil gain admiration of foreign nations, and in the company of charms and virtues they spread the glory of their homeland. And because we will also adopt a resolution related to Stanisław Moniuszka, it is for my curiosity that Stanisław Moniuszko made such an entry: "The greatest moments of my artistic life to you, the Most Dear Lady, I am obliged. It must be said that Maria Szymanowska died in 1831 when she was only 42. She settled in St. Petersburg and became a victim of the cholera epidemic that reigned there at the time. She just died in St. Petersburg. Unfortunately, after her death, her memory of her was lost both in creative environments and in many other environments. In fact, until this day there is no possibility to restore the grave in this cemetery, where people who fell victim to the epidemic were buried, but the Institute of Poland in St. Petersburg, having learned that we will be in the Senate adopting a resolution related to Maria Szymanowska, was interested in the Orthodox Patriarchate of St. Petersburg, to which this cemetery... And the patriarchate of St. Petersburg decided to resume the search for a place where Maria Szymanowska may rest in this cemetery in order to be able to fund a plaque or a tombstone dedicated to it. They are also looking for burial sites for other outstanding people. In conclusion, I would like to say that Mrs Chapelle, who has been present here for many years, has prepared a calendar of events in Paris. It shall be annexed to the resolution. Which has already been implemented, so to speak, to act, a very rich calendar of concerts, scientific symposiums about Maria Szymanowska in many countries. Polish Radio, Royal Castle, Polish House in Warsaw will take care of this in Poland I'm only serving some of the institutions. Or the Frederick Chopin Institute. In France, the Science Station of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Paris... There will also be many concerts, among others. On the Sorbonne. As for Denmark, on 8 March the Thorvaldsen National Museum in Copenhagen will worship Maria Szymanowska and in Sweden, Malmö The University of Music in cooperation with the Polish Consulate. And so in Uppsala... As far as Germany is concerned, such events will take place in Leipzig and Frankfurt, and Switzerland It's in Basel. In the United States, the Frederick Chopin Foundation in Miami, as well as in Pennsylvania... Also other associations there, e.g. Chicago, they're gonna get involved, and it's all thanks to this Polish-American foundation. There are specific dates, dates for concerts, scientific symposia, etc. So that I think there is a chance that Maria Szymanowska, who at that time was the first of Polish women to pursue her professional career as a pianist and live from it, and was a great composer and great pianist, would be well reminded, although for some time until there is one. And I hope it doesn't happen. Some kind of oblivion. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymański made his speech in the debate on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2019 by the Year of Maria Szymanowska. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 79 senators voted and they were all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2019 as the Year of Maria Szymanowska. [[Applause]] I ask you, Madam President of the Association of Maria Szymanowska, Mrs Elżbieta Zapolska-Chappelle, to approach the Presidency table and to withdraw the resolution. You're welcome, Madam President. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And we are back to dealing with item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services; print no. 1029. Before the break, a government representative presented the government's position and answered the senators' questions. I'm opening a discussion. Is anybody here for discussion, Senator? Does anyone remember he signed up for the discussion? Mr. Senator, right? You're welcome, Senator. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Several technical comments on the work on this law. As you remember, when you were discussing the bill, Senator Frost said that this was an extension of a certain policy on VAT rates. I would just like to remind you that on 31 December, this law, which is in force today, ends its life, which means you are establishing a new bill, a new act, increasing the VAT rates, because if you had not, the VAT rates would have been 1% since January 2019. lower. And whatever you call it, the Poles are convinced that from January 2019 they will pay lower VAT, they will pay higher VAT. Those are the facts. We can argue about words. The issue of the legislative side. Again, the Legislative Bureau says that what is being discussed, to say the least, completely does not fit into the correct legislation. And it offered a solution. And the state: no, no, the legal opinion of the legal opinion, needs to be increased, we increase it. And that's what you're doing! During the committee meeting, I asked, and the Minister also confirmed this in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, it's December. I'll remind you. This Decision shall enter into force on the [[December 13th.]] December 13th. It is even a symbolic date for Poland and Poles. This is a bill on which there is absolutely no public consultation. And I will remind or inform some of you that this bill causes revenue to the budget due to the increase of VAT to 23% and 8% at the level of PLN 8 and 10 billion. If it translates into a family, I'll tell you later, later on in my speech. So you can say that 8 billion PLN more Poles will pay for the budget. A proven, good method: out of your pockets, and then we'll give you something, more out of your pockets, and then we'll give you something. Fantastic to fit into the philosophy of sleep. Margaret Thatcher. Remember, if the government wants to give you something, they have to take it away from you first. And that's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that there is a question of analysis of how this law affects the finances of Polish families. Well, there's no analysis. The next thing you know, it's December. You know it's the end of a year. Why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, didn't the government come with this bill in October, after consulting the government project, properly, in mode and time? We know why. It just happened that there were local elections. Well, how do you put a bill like that in a local election? Local governments will also pay a higher tax, because the tax on goods and services is also charged to local governments. Therefore, on 13 December, on Christmas Eve 8 billion PLN more to the budget. Of course, there is nothing wrong with increasing or decreasing taxes in situations that arise in the financial market. These are things that happen in every country, and Poland should not be free of it. I'm just talking about what mode and time you're doing this. I would also like to talk about this matter, and I am talking about this political element right now... Maybe I'll read you a passage. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, that you know how catechism your own electoral program, but not only that you give 500, also other declarations you have made. I'll read it to you. The VAT increase had the reverse effect of the revenue started to fall dramatically, which forced the budget to be revised. In order to ensure an increase in budgetary revenue, it is necessary to return to lower rates. When we get to power, we'll introduce a VAT reduction as soon as possible. Taxes are to be pro-development, transparent, simple and low. Says who? You were the Prime Minister in the election campaign. Have you forgotten about this? Oh, no. I asked the Minister about it, and I am glad that the Minister replied as he answered at the committee meeting. I accept that there is more expertise in the Minister's activities than in politics. But we are also discussing political issues here, which is why I remind you of what you have declared and why, among other things. You won the election. VAT increase by 1%. What effect will it have on individual families? It has to be said that if this were the only increase in various types of fees, the danin that you have introduced in 3 years, I would not have come out here at all, I would have said difficult, these are the needs, the world will not collapse. But yesterday I read, looking at various kinds of analyses, that the state I'll give you 34 raises again. Is 34 increases an increase in the family budget or a reduction? Well, that's not what you said. I'll just remind you of some. Bank tax... Senator Bierecki has often spoken, and we reach for deep pockets. And you've reached into the deep pockets of all those who do bank operations. That's where you reached. Insurance, commercial, recycling fee, water levy, excise duty on used cars, power charge, issue fee, etc., etc. I'm not talking about the power surges because I heard the good news. I heard there'd be no power surge. That's great! You know, one guy wakes up and says 70% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. And then there's the termination of the contract. An entrepreneur comes and talks to me. I would like to stress: to me What are you doing out there? 70% raises? Are you crazy? How am I supposed to compete in the wood market? And tonight, I'm gonna bring him the happy news: there's gonna be no raises. If this is how financial and economic affairs are handled, I congratulate you. I'm glad you're acting like an Italian government in the 1970s. The less the Italian government interfered in the economy, the better it developed. Keep up the good work, but don't interfere, so maybe we'll grow even more. What's this 1 element, 1%? Does the VAT rate affect the family? It is estimated that in the case of a 4-person family it is the cost of approx. 300 PLN. You can say that 300 PLN is not much throughout the year, but if you add all the other elements to it... I'd like to mention the statistics that the CSO is preparing. It wasn't me. It was the CUS. In 2014 the disposable income of the Polish family was PLN 1 thousand 402 and in 2017 PLN 1 thousand 598. It's a very good trend. You could say it's going in a very good direction. I subscribe to what you have raised, namely that Poles' income must increase, especially disposable income, which is what the family actually has. But I want to tell you about the other statistics that the CSO gives. The cost of living during this period was PLN 968, or almost PLN 1 thousand. Then, at the beginning of 2018 the CUS reported that it is already about PLN 1 thousand 600. [[Oh, my God!]] And here you can see how it's getting better. On the one hand, we give, we say, benefactors, and on the other hand we introduce 34 different kinds of increases and burdens. This is the improvement of every family's situation. This is statistics. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry states that this increase will not affect the activities of particularly small people. Small and medium-sized enterprises. Yeah, of course it won't. It won't matter. 1% ? Well, what does it matter, you might say it won't matter. I would like to say that one of your deputy prime ministers said that the rise in electricity prices is unlikely to have an impact on the increase in service costs. Nobel in Economics next year I already know that a few people will get it for that kind of speech. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we add what is happening on the market... 'Cause what's the situation today? A very well-functioning economy with a high growth of gross domestic product, and that is a fact. Very good revenue of the state budget resulting from consumption, sealing and all those activities which the government, the government of the Republic of Poland is doing, and these are positive things. On the other hand, however, it is not possible to add such a drastic burden on the cost of living for each family. If we add that inflation for this year, ladies and gentlemen, is the highest in 7 or 8 years, and if you go to the store I don't go, but I know a couple of people who walk. And you'll see how expensive food is, it's a picture of a VAT increase that's different. Because from a 1% point of view, that's a small increase. That is why I would like to encourage you to reflect on this. Finally, two words were addressed mainly to the members of the committee, but because yesterday the Minister spoke during the debate, so also to the Minister. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed what concerns VAT in general and, of course, collection. I asked the Minister to speak, the Minister took note of it and referred to it. And the Minister, as the good politicians of Law and Justice do, has read these passages with which I also agree... Minister, I have the doubts you have, too. But as such, you have not read some of the things that you have read as an ever-better and more experienced law and justice politician. If you don't mind, I won't be reading this anymore... Professor Wait, Professor of Economic University from Krakow, wrote in a good... [[University of Cracow.]] Please? [[University.]] Yes, a university in Krakow. He wrote some positive and negative things. But there's one thing I'd like to draw attention to. Why? Because as I hear it... I'm not an economist by education. I'm a hobbyist. In terms of finance, not a lobbyist, just a hobbyist, and I want to say... According to young people, one of the most famous words in the youth slang is the word "jack," according to a survey. Well, then I'm going to say I'm not addressing any of you, I'm putting it in media space. That if someone says that VAT sealing is 300 billion zlotys, it is at least an economic pitcher, spreading these kinds of concepts. I will read this passage in which the professor says that the VAT gap in 2016 and 2017 amounted to a total of over 76 billion PLN, and in previous years it amounted to respectively... and here are the figures which show that the sealing in 2016 and 2017 caused that the VAT gap estimated by methods based on data from the Ministry and the European Commission was reduced by 6 billion PLN. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm done. [[Time has been exceeded.]] Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll just say two sentences so I don't sign up for another five minutes. And now the last sentence, in which the professor writes, that given what is being done in 2018, the increase in retail sales, the increase in VAT collection, etc. It estimates that the VAT gap in 2018 will be 41 billion. So if you multiply that 41 billion for four years, that's at least 160 billion zlotys. So that's half of what you're talking about. Therefore, the instruments for combating the VAT gap are very important, and here they are successful, but it is also clear that, as is the case in many European countries, the fight for better VAT collection is a continuous fight. And I'm not saying that the 40-billion-dollar VAT gap, which is probably going to be in 2018, is anyone's fault. From this we should draw conclusions and do what the government has done so far, or perhaps even more so as to reduce this gap even more effectively. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When discussing the law on amending the law on taxation on goods and services, I cannot refer here to my previous speaker, who pointed out fundamentals. I was taught simple math. If we're talking about the 23 percent level and we're not changing it, regardless of whether or not we're running out of time. We leave it at the same level. It's clear and obvious, regardless of how we apply this simplest math here. But there's also no way to point out a few very important things that you've called here, Senator. Well, I didn't count those more than 20 changes that caused the increase in any load. Yes, some of the legal regulations stem directly from EU directives, which we have simply transposed into the Polish legal order. I would like to draw attention to one thing. If we declare a tax reduction and the Prime Minister made such a declaration This is a declaration that is covered in the actual implementation of our programme. First of all, we have applied a number of different types of reliefs for small businesses, including start-ups, including those that result in better development of the company during this initial period. It is here, in the High House, that we have examined the so-called question. Little ZUS. We have also introduced a number of facilitations that have caused less burden for those who really find it much harder to start. Speaking of VAT, I can also not touch the so-called issue. the VAT hole, which was not only signalled by your ministers, but also debated on it during the process of examining the changes to this law in 2008 and 2015. You didn't listen to your ministers. I don't know if it was a question of conscious lobbying, or if it was a question of closing your eyes. Yes, VAT collection, in your case up to 23%, included those who were the weakest, those who stood before the tax office each time on guard and conscientiously paid this tax, but you absolutely did not notice that the powerful VAT mobs were bringing huge money out of the state budget to achieve unknown goals by pushing in their pockets. You can't not talk about it today. If we are talking about equality, about the fact that the state is going to be effective and that the state institutions are going to carry out their mission to which they are called, then we also need to look at that system, the holes in the system, which allowed for this type of pathology. And you in no way Even though your ministers told you how to do it, You didn't answer that. You often say we don't listen. Yeah, we don't listen to that kind of hints and lobbyists. We don't listen to these people. We listen to those who say seal the system. And from the means of sealing the system we implement a lot of very necessary social programs. I will not mention the very important fact that the 500+ programme introduced at the beginning of this term, which really reduced the poverty of many of the poorest families to a minimum. Even if we maintain this 23 percent VAT, we are talking about the responsibility for the state, for the country, for all the projects we carry out. We're not doing this for a certain select group that is privileged and that generates profits for the West. We are talking about a responsible programme, which is aimed at equalising opportunities in Poland. Speaking of this law, we are aware of it, and we also have a sense of responsibility and a mission that we are fulfilling for Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't going to perform today, but after Senator Leszek's speech, There are a few issues that need to be straightened out, some false information that the senator has told us about. The first issue I was talking about yesterday, but, as you can see, this has not been established by the senator, so let me repeat: Law and Justice do not increase taxes, does not increase VAT. VAT, VAT rates increased the government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2010, with effect from 1 January 2011. [[What year was that?]] It was you who raised the rate of reduced VAT from 7% to 8% and a base rate of 22% to 23%. Well, that's the facts. You can check that out. I didn't check, but perhaps even Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj was a senator then and perhaps even if he was, he probably voted for it. But I don't know, I didn't check it out. But I'm sure Senator Klein was a senator and he probably voted for it. [[Of course.]] He's even confessing. So let us be clear that it was the Civic Platform that raised the VAT rates. That's the first line. Second line. Senator Czarnobaj quotes the statements, and I will also quote a quote: 'I swear to the Poles that anyone who in my government proposes a tax raise will be personally thrown out by me.' Who said that, Senator? I'll give you a hint: Prime Minister Donald Tusk in his exposé. Your leader, the leader of the Platform... [[You can't...]] ...tonight President of the European Council. Maybe after a few years, he learned his lesson and his escape to Brussels it was just like throwing himself out of the government. [[Oh, no, I think that's an accusation. Sir...]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, no...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[What peace? Well, that's an accusation.]] [[That's the level...]] [[Calm down, please.]] So it would be worth knowing the program of your party and knowing the statements of your president, your leader. That's the other thing. The third point, too, to be corrected. That's what the senator said about inflation. I didn't find the data. They're probably out there somewhere. . concerning the level of inflation in Poland. The latest data I've been able to find. Maybe they're newer. This is between June 2017 and June 2018, inflation: 2%. These are the data from the Central Statistical Office. Is 2% It's a lot, isn't it? Mr. Senator says we have some extremely high inflation. She fits into the so-called. the inflation target or within a certain range of inflation targets set by the Monetary Policy Council. And as an economist, as a hobby, I'll tell you, Mr. Senator, as an economist by education, that a certain level of inflation is even expected by the economy. [[Right.]] Therefore, central banks in many countries set a certain inflation target. I 2% this is certainly an inflationary objective that is safe for the economy. And to some extent it is even, I would say, beneficial to the economy, because it stimulates... [[But not for the citizens.]] [[Exactly.]] [[Not for the citizens.]] Another question, Mr. Senator. Data from this year. Growth: more than 5% in 2018. [[Voice from the room: Consumer growth.]] Economic growth, Mr. Senator. Over 5%. Well, to the source of this economic growth There's no time to do an economics lecture here. So is consumption. But also export, which we have record high, etc., etc. A friend of Gavyd's has already talked about the VAT gap here. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's a committee. There were tapes in this case, and I'm sure Mr. Gras told me how fun it was to do business on invoices today. [[Voice from the room: Mr Morawiecki.]] Mr. Moravian Prime Minister wasn't there, please... [[How wasn't it?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's not what I'm gonna say. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] The next issue is the testimony of your Deputy Minister, Mrs. Chojny-Ghost, made under oath before the committee. She talked about how you tolerated the fact that the VAT mafia was robbing the Polish state. If you say today that we reach for the wallets of Poles, then I can say one thing. You guys raised VAT. And who did that money go to? Who did that money go to? We today, maintaining these increased rates of VAT... This is an amendment, Mr. Senator, and you know it very well, an amendment. So we're updating the current law... [[It's over. Do you understand that?]] We are updating the current law. And this money goes to people, this money goes among other things to Polish families, to pensioners and from here... [[But we're taking...]] But you took it. And who did you give it to? [[It was supposed to be better.]] And it's better. [[It's not better.]] It's better, Mr. Senator, it's better. [[I'm sorry, but we don't talk here. Please don't disturb the senator, and I'm asking the senator not to respond to a fight.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you must tell the truth. The situation is that Senator Czarnobaj, representing the formation which raised the same tax, is today trying to convince us here in the Chamber, and through this speaker also Poles that it is the Law and Justice that somehow raises taxes... It's just, basically, it's not true in the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought the debate on this item would end with a speech by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. It turned out that a few other colleagues had spoken, and I therefore decided to add a few words to this debate to the discussion. I think saying that one government in tax matters is doing everything and the other is doing nothing is absolutely not true. After all, we do not deny that you are making a great deal of effort in ordering the tax system, collecting taxes and other things. I can see that. But saying that you didn't do anything before is just saying it's not true. In this House too, in the Senate, in our Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we have taken many effective initiatives. After all, it was with us in the Senate, although it was also a government initiative, we introduced reversed VAT on many products. This was the beginning of the change in VAT policy that we saw. We have seen this issue, we have seen this, and the government, and the parliamentarians have taken action on this issue all the time. The question of the tax gap that you are talking about... This gap in the European sense has probably only been examined since 2010 or even 2011. The VAT gap also exists today. You're saying you've eliminated something big. Oh, no. The VAT gap was in our time, it is in your time and it will probably be every time, because the essence of this concept, this VAT gap or tax gap, is that one is talking about the theoretical maximum amount of tax that can flow to the state budget, and the real one that is always more or less, but is lower... You just have to remember not to go crazy and scream about things that aren't real. The criminals of the tax that Senator Gawada and Senator Frost are talking about here, so to speak, enthusiasm, were in the days of the Civic Platform, were and before, and are now. After all, every once in a while we find out that you or any other businessman or criminal are being detained for extortion of VAT. Let's not make this an extraordinary sensation. As I say, those who want to deceive the state will always be. So in this respect, I ask for absolute moderation and understanding of financial and tax reality. Here's another thing. Inventory. In our time, for most of our governments, inflation was absolutely minimal, clearly below 1%. There was even a deflation, which means the prices were falling. And right now there's inflation. It is also included as an inflationary target in the Budget Act. You're telling the senator it's 2%. And he says it's very good for the economy. But every inflation is bad for the citizen. Well, if you don't get it, I don't know what it's all about... It is worth simply saying this: I had 1 thousand PLN at the beginning of the year, and at the end of the year the same 1 thousand PLN is worth less. So it's always in the case of every inflation that the one who tries to save loses money. Traci, right? Even bearing in mind that even long-term investments, i.e. those at the highest interest rate today in state banks But it can be said that in all of them are clearly below 1% , and current income rates are 0% So the loss is obvious... Well, you can't say that, can you? I am not saying that this is such a loss as the loss resulting from inflation of 10% or 20% or 30%, as it was in the early 1990s, but if there are low rates of investment, inflation is always detrimental to the citizen. If someone doesn't understand it, they just don't understand economics and they're just dealing with demagogy. Another case that's tied up. Fortunately, the Prime Minister said yesterday that he was withdrawing from this issue. With huge increases in electricity prices. Really, the ones that were proposed by energy companies were huge. My wife runs a small business, employs less than 10 employees. I read it myself... Even I was appalled that the future offer of an agreement, in which Energa states in the first sentence that it will benefit her from this agreement, because it will save on energy and the price of energy they propose in this agreement is higher by 40%. I can bring this document, show you From the price that applies this year. [[And so...]] Yes, sir. And I would just like to say to the senators that even in a letter from the state group there is such manipulation of people: you will have something more favourable. Even my wife said, "I'm not really in it." However, I began to analyze it thoroughly. I thought if there was an agreement, but I'm not gonna sign it, it's gonna be the way it was, or at best it's gonna be what they offered. Turns out somewhere out there... No, it wasn't even written in that document. Because I called the hotline myself. They said to me, "If your wife doesn't sign this agreement, the price will be even higher, because our offer is a special offer under the agreement, which is less than 40%. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. [[After I've known you...]] Yesterday, during the debate on a vote of distrust or a vote of confidence, the Prime Minister said that he was holding back that there would be no increase in electricity prices. That's good news. But is it possible to rule in such a way that there will be a 30- or 40-percent increase in energy prices, and then, two weeks before the beginning of the year, it is said that there will be no increase? There is a logical question: since the price was reasonably determined by these companies, where will they now take 30%? income that would be from this increase in sales price to cover its costs? [[A miracle.]] Well, this is some ridiculous economy. Yes? Well, I don't know what that's like. I don't want to be here... I am pleased that the Prime Minister's government has withdrawn from this increase. But how is he going to finance this expenditure of energy companies now? It's just an absolute riddle. I think it looks like this. We're saying that right now there's a good tax situation, there's good cheatability. It might be worthwhile to start such a debate here, in our group, among the senators, including government representatives, about how it might be worth to return to this concept of tax reduction, generally, all, VAT to the level of a dozen percent, and introduce the principle that this tax is equal for all. Then there will be fewer irregularities, there will be less dishonesty, the tax will be uniform. It's a tough decision. We wanted to bring it in. We've run out of determination. Besides, we have come for a moment in the sense that, so to speak, a budget and economic state and a European very difficult one, because that was the beginning of this major global crisis. There was determination in us, but there wasn't enough to do this operation. Today I hear in the voices of some politicians of Law and Justice that there is also this idea that it would be worth introducing a uniform VAT, because then there are much less different types of fraud and scams. According to these accounts, various simulations prepared by the government at different times VAT at the level of approx. 16% for all products would be a tax which would be even slightly higher than it is today. So it would be worth, I think, going back to this case and wondering if we could try this operation. And I think I am convinced that in such a discussion there would also be a lot of support on the part of the Civic Platform, because, as I say, this is a difficult decision, you have to have courage, she requires, so to speak, a longer operation, but I think it is worth going back to this issue. I'm seeing if there's anything else here... I guess that's all I wanted to say in this context. [[It's been ten minutes.]] It's been ten minutes. [[Yes.]] [[That's it.]] [[That's beautiful.]] In that case, thank you very much to the marshal and the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj promised us that he would not speak for the second time. [[That's four minutes.]] Another unfulfilled promise, actually broken promise. [[These are the promises of the Platform.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To keep my word, I'll say I'll talk for four minutes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There I said about 30 seconds, so I'll try, Mr. Marshal, speak for four minutes. I think it'll be shorter. It's about keeping your word. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few more words. Senator, yesterday during the debate, you asked me if I was watching the speech of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of all time, as you said yesterday. Yesterday I said, "Well, God, actually, moms, we finally have a prime minister. I watched it last night. And not to get into a big discussion, because you see something different, and I think it's something else, it's normal... [[They saw the same thing, they just heard...]] Yeah, they did, yeah... [[My heart and my mind.]] And what I'm trying to say is don't talk about it for a long time, because it's like you're falling into what you just said. In a moment, I will refer to two more passages, just as my Polish professor said, when my fantastic colleague, who today is a great lawyer, pulled to answer. This colleague talked, talked about blooming Poland, about that, about everything the professor said: well, Tadziu, thank you very much, from dwarfing 5, from knowledge 3 with minus. That's how I could tell what I saw yesterday when you asked me and what you were saying today. But I also want to say something positive. I don't know about the country, but I noticed. I'm old enough, and I remember those ships in the reed waiting for these citruses to arrive. Remember? He's already entering the port, he's here. So? Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister... Well, this is great rhetoric: I have for you, Poles, also good news, VAT on citrus will be less than 5%. So? And may I? Yes, you can. Yeah, it's just for citrus... [[And the locomotives stopped?]] And the locomotives didn't stop. And now I'm getting to what you're saying. I'm glad you told me that because I didn't know you were an economist. I would like to say this: if we are talking about inflation at 2% She's taller than she was in the past. I'm not going in there whether it's good or bad. I'm talking about something else, Mr. Senator and Ladies and gentlemen, and I'm talking about if inflation is 2%. And it's going to count for locomotive, steel production and other things, it could be up to 1.5%. But food prices, maintenance prices... I've given the numbers, I'll read them again, about the disposable income and the cost of living. The disposable income increased, but the most increased cost of living: from 1 thousand PLN to 1 thousand 600 PLN. And these are the facts given by the CUS, Mr. Senator. Now about the height of the raises, different. Here, various experts say you've done it 34 times. And you said you wouldn't raise taxes. And here you're right: you're not raising taxes, you're raising taxes of all kinds. The issue fee. After all, the main problem of Poland today is the atmosphere, air. What is the main cause of these problems? Yeah, carbon tan. And who's gonna pay the issue fee? Drivers. You, instead of simplifying certain mechanisms, complicate them by increasing loads. Mr. Senator Frost, I would suggest what Senator Klein was talking about. I know history is a teacher of the future. And many mistakes have been made in previous years. We want to talk about what you're doing. And whatever you'd call it, if there wasn't a bill, we'd run out of 23 percent VAT on December 31st. And as far as escape issues are concerned, the promise, keep that in mind, draw conclusions. But in the discussion, the one where we're talking about today's situation, I suggest we talk... This is what Senator Kleina is talking about: let's talk about today's situation concerning taxes, burdens on Poles, rising food prices, how they affect... etc., etc. And saying all the time: and remember, two years ago, five years ago, six years ago... it doesn't catch on today. And that is why I would like us to talk about what is the subject of today's debate about the cost of life of Poles. Finally, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, one more question. Senator Gawada said, of course, you chased these little ones and left the big ones behind. I really encourage you, especially the members of the finance committee, to read the Professor's article. You may disagree with him, but it's worth getting acquainted with. And the last thing we need to do is chase the little ones. I know you're only after the big ones now. But by accident, you still wanted to catch that mechanic who exchanged a light bulb for five zlotys. And that's why don't talk about these things. Because this kind of tripping will happen at any time and any time. And that kind of thing doesn't build the whole picture. These are individual situations. I hope that chasing this mechanic or an electrician for 5 zlotys is an episode that should be taught rather than an example. Therefore, do not generalise the various types of actions based on individual events. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I listened very carefully to Senator Kleina's speech, which I always admire for a lot of life experience, but also for being able to come out and explain with such great patience issues which are obvious to everyone, only to the state of the Senators of the PiS seem unobvious. That's what he explains at every meeting. And a little bit like that, to be honest, she's throwing peas against the wall. Now I'm going to say to Senator Czarnobaj, Leszek, you're wrong. You're wrong. It wasn't 34 charges, no. It was 38 charges. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] [[Who's gonna give me more?]] The last calculations indicate 38. And yes, it's not called a tax. It wraps itself in beautiful gold and it's called a fee on it, from smego, from that. However, all these fees are charged to further professional groups. Leszek Czarnobaj also mentioned electricity prices, said that he would now go to his friendly entrepreneur and tell him that energy prices... that there would be no more growth. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not true. At least I don't believe it. Because today, a number of companies have already concluded contracts for the next year... [[It's already signed, yes.]] ...already signed. What's going on right now? Are we going to adopt a bill that cancels tens or hundreds of thousands of contracts for the supply of electricity to businesses? [[Who signed it?]] Especially since when you ask the Prime Minister or Minister Tchórzewski about these energy prices, you guys start to go rogue. They're starting to swim. And it turns out they might lower the price for Mr. Kowalski, who has a household, but if he has a company, they won't lower it. [[Before the raises...]] And nobody really knows what to do with it today, because the energy policy of the government has led to a drastic rise in energy prices, and so the highest in Europe. We must realise this: we have the highest energy prices in Europe. [[Before the raises...]] Right, before the raises. I assume the raises came into effect. There was a discussion here about how our economy is developing, at what rate. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy is on three pillars: export, investment and consumption. Today we have such a situation that consumption opportunities are running out, because the price of the basket of basic services has increased from 1 thousand to 1 thousand 600 PLN. Consumption already has its limitations. You have successfully killed your investment policy, and now, by raising electricity prices, you will kill exports because our companies will no longer be competitive on the market. The Senators of Frost and Gadawa are classically turning the cat's tail. They say that from January there will be 1 percentage point more and that this is not an increase, this is not a decrease. It's not the same. It's not the same. Immediately, it is immediately soothing the eyes, saying that the ZUS has been reduced, which in practice, as I am reported by entrepreneurs, is fiction, and the CIT has been reduced to 9%, which concerns the marginal number of entities in Poland and is a PR action rather than a real action to improve economic efficiency. At one point I heard the opinion that in previous governments the VAT gap, the 40 billion was pathology. The PiS government has set up a special committee. I'm talking about Mr Horala's committee. But if there's a 41 billion VAT gap under the PiS, it's perfect. It's just an economic process. Maybe there should be a follow-up committee here, too. Why didn't the PiS government clear the 41 billion VAT gap when the same billions in previous years were pathology, negligence and some terrible pain? In the discussion it was said that the Prime Minister had announced that the tax on citrus would fall to 5%. [[Voice from the room: VAT-Up.]] VAT. I remember that. There are ships in the rendezvous, only these bad shipbuilders protest and refuse to unload these ships. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, there was a protest from the farmers. They protest because they have nowhere to sell their apples, their vegetables. And now the question. Do we want to support the import of citrus into Poland at the expense of our fruit and vegetable producers? I think that's the way to answer the announcement of Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Applause]] One last question. That's really gonna be the last sentence. Minister, this is actually a question for you. Your government informs you right and left of the excellent budgetary position. When I open the paper, I read how much budget surplus we have. It's not even said we have a smaller deficit, but we have a surplus. And I read, how much money at the end of I, II, the third quarter gathered. And I have a question for the Minister. Minister, why do you need another $8 billion? Why do you want to take another $8 billion away from Poles if you have a lot of money with which, I understand, you don't know what to do? What do you need the money for? Maybe we shouldn't change the VAT bill after all. You can leave these stakes until the end of the year, and from January let 8 billion remain in the pockets of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Frost. Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Czarnobaj says you have to look at what you do, not what you say. Exactly. What did the Government of Law and Justice do? He reduced the CIT tax for small enterprises. He is the lowest in the European Union. [[How many companies are involved?]] [[How many are involved?]] We've introduced a little ZUS. We have introduced such a banking tax as is applicable in the UK, Germany, France, perhaps in 85 countries of the European Union. These are more facts. Next line. I was very concerned about what Senator Klein said. What did Senator Klein say? He said, let's raise VAT on food, raise VAT on drugs. Because what does the introduction of one VAT rate mean? The fact that today's food prices, which are... are... [[Voice from the room: What is it? Go ahead.]] ...which are taxed at the rate of VAT... [[7%.]] ...8% ... [[A voice from the hall: Why are you setting him up?]] ...will, according to what the senator proposes, be taxed at a rate of 16%. Well, your show was 3 times 15, but even you. That's what you pulled out of. And it might be worth saying here what the Civic Platform wants to do. That's not gonna keep that 1%. more in the case of VAT on food or medicines, because the Platform proposes a 100% increase in VAT. Well, that's what a linear bet means, whether it's 15% or not. Is it going to be 16%? What Senator Klein was talking about, who's a big supporter. By the way, the biggest scams aren't made on differences in VAT rates, whether or not someone's making an 8% rate. , or 23% Only those VAT mafias just didn't pay VAT at all. They were left invoices, they were pillars, so to speak. No matter what was the VAT rate, what was the product or what was the service taxed on any VAT. I agree that, of course, if there was one VAT rate, it would probably be easier to settle, but it had nothing to do with or mostly had nothing to do with VAT mobs who didn't want to pay that tax at all. And the last question, because I no longer have time, namely energy prices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have a problem with energy prices. But the problem is that the Paris Agreement was signed, not by the Government of Law and Justice. Which forces a very large fee for CO2 emissions. Of course, we can say that we will suddenly introduce green energy, but the reality is that today the basic raw material of energy is coal, whether we like it or not. [[Voice from the room: And you want to keep it.]] [[Russian coal.]] And you can't change that in a year, two, three years, you can do it in 30 years. Because today we are facing a dilemma that there will be either coal or this energy simply will not be. [[Voice from the room: There will be no.]] Well, it just won't. [[Voice from the room: Russian coal?]] And, ladies and gentlemen, last year, the price for emission rights was 5 euros, and today it is 26 euros. And unfortunately, it translates into energy prices. Why? And because this is the result of the policy of the European Union, which, seeing that the issue prices, the prices of these emission rights are very low, has made this a financial instrument. And today, not like last year, when only power plants were allowed to trade those rights, which means... Today, probably since January this year, it is a normal financial instrument and simply investment banks, investment funds are starting to invest in emission rights. The prices have gone up. Of course, environmentalists, these green parties, the European Commission is pleased. But this is the reason today that the government, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski, are doing what we can to maintain low energy prices in these difficult climate agreements imposed on us by the European Commission. The declaration by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is clear: next year consumers will not pay any more for electricity. [[Who's gonna pay?]] [[Not consumers, but taxpayers.]] [[Voice from the room: Taxpayers.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! A few comments, I would say, in the spirit to which you encouraged Prime Minister Morawiecki, i.e. in the spirit of inviting the opposition to cooperate and constructive discussion, but also in the spirit in which Senator Klein gave his speech here, because this presentation in my opinion was also in such a spirit that it showed the problems that stand before us, in fact, regardless of who is in charge. Of course, one can argue, and here very interesting was the exchange of views on whether it is a reduction or a raise or leaving at the same level. This can be played and various rhetorical figures can be built, while the value of VAT is 23%. I'll say I'm a little disappointed in that. I'd be more pleased if the tax had been reduced or if it had been restored... Well, whatever you call it, but if next year the VAT rate was 22% Or even less, because at least I stand in the position that tax reduction is generally beneficial for the economy. But apart from the taxes... And I hope that in the years to come I would like to address the Minister here as an opportunity to further reduce taxes and also to reduce the budget deficit. Because we are happy that the budget deficit is record low, but we must remember that it is still a deficit. Right? So, of course, it would have been better to say that this is not possible at this time, but, unfortunately, it would have been much better if there hadn't been a deficit if the budget had just been balanced. That's definitely an important goal. And the opposition certainly Perhaps the government would finally approve if such an objective were to be achieved. But one more thing is very important, which was not discussed in this discussion. too many speeches, namely the issue of simplifying the tax system. Again we can move words, argue whether this system has been simplified or not, we can show both cases. Well, there's a temptation, also for the rulers, to say, camouflage something or call some extra charges in other words. But I'm sure you need it. And that would be best done in cooperation with the opposition. The real simplification of the rule, the real simplification and differentiation of tax rates, and the diversity of different danins, let's call it, public. It's very necessary. And now a word to Senator Terminski. As for the fact that we here, on our side, do not understand or understand little about the relationship between taxes, tributes and even social programs that the government is implementing... Well, we understand that because he's a complete elemental. After all, it is known that the government does not produce goods, it does not produce wealth, it divides, and thus, to implement social programs which, at least so far, are very significant and noticeable. And it is even the state you admit that has limited the areas of poverty in Poland... Yeah, but it's got a price, of course. We pay for it with taxes, there's no other option. However, raising taxes obviously affects the economy in a negative way, so it is important to maintain a certain balance between these social programmes, say, between some government's social sensitivity and economic issues. And there's definitely a time when... I hope that in the future, in the coming years, there will be the possibility of a greater burden on producers, entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized ones, who make a huge contribution to the economy. They also feel that the conditions for managing in Poland are getting better, but we would be glad if they could feel it even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski. Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u22	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! My previous speech began by saying that I admire Senator Kleina's patience in translating the intricacies of the budget, the intricacies of economics. In the next movement we had 2 speeches, 2 senators, I have the impression that from 2 other blocks, and yet probably from the same... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...who understood absolutely different. Senator Bobko. ♪ Respect ♪ - ♪ Respect ♪ - He understood that Senator Kleina called for discussion, discussion, dialogue, seeking solutions to simplify the tax system. What did Senator Frost understand? Senator Frost understood that Senator Klein was calling for a tax increase. I think Senator Klein would have to do it again and try again to explain what he meant, because I don't think everyone got it. [[It's a waste of time.]] As for the electricity that was discussed here... Ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, a law was adopted that limited the possibility of developing renewable energy in Poland in a drastic way. However, the latest auctions, in terms of energy prices, show that windmills are able to produce energy at 150 PLN/1 MWh and coal power plants It's 350 zł/1 MWh. And now I ask myself: if three years ago the possibilities of wind energy development had not been reduced and if we had, I don't know, a third of renewable energy today, the average energy price would have been lower or higher? I suggest we go back to first grade high school, to math class, and see what average is. And I have no doubt that today we would not have the most expensive electricity in Poland. You talk about saving the economy all the time. I hear that one of the ministers is behind coal, that the President is behind coal, the other minister, the Prime Minister is against coal... And let me tell you this: our energy mix should be designed in such a way that we use maximum national coal resources and have the rest as part of renewable energy. Meanwhile, today we are using coal resources in Donbas, in the former republics of the Soviet Union, in today's Russia, and in fact we are sponsoring the Russian economy, bringing more and more coal from that Russia, while killing our own energy mix and killing the possibility of reducing energy prices in Poland. Senator Frost said one sentence, one sentence at the end. Until I wrote it down. That there will be no increase in electricity prices for consumers. Well, either it's another manipulation, because it's about to turn out that the consumer is just a natural person, or maybe he actually knows something that we don't know. And now I ask myself: is the gas station the consumer of electricity, or is it not? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask myself: is the glassworks the consumer of electricity, or is it not? Because in my opinion, if we write the word "consumer" with a small letter, this applies to absolutely every entity that consumes electricity in Poland. But if we start hamletizing and try to prove that the consumer is only Kowalski at the end, then these energy price increases will affect us all next year, very, very much, and the price of the basket of basic goods will increase not to 1 thousand 600 PLN, and to 1 thousand 900 PLN, to 2 thousand PLN and exceed any possibilities of absorption by Polish families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this debate, which is highly polarized and in which, above all, there are accusatory elements, and less substantive, lacking, I think, the voice of the citizen involved, and this is what I am trying to do in tax matters, and not only to be. A committed citizen is also a man who draws experience from the past As I say, I move in a tax context And he's watching the outside world. Maybe about this outside world, because it's the most famous, the least you can talk about. There is no one tax doctrine in the world, and it is right, because we would be completely globalised. Here I must argue with Senator Czarnobaj, although we sit side by side and we are more cordial to each other than, as it would seem, with the Senator of the Solidarity of Frost. Well, Mrs. Margaret Thatcher said that if you're talking about giving someone something, that means they have to take someone away first. The English are famous for their beautiful moth vouchers. Paying taxes is not a contribution, Mr. Senator Czarnobaj It is a way of organizing a society, including, for example, for the implementation of the idea of solidarity. 200 miles from the shores of the United Kingdom there are several states, millions of communities in which there are very high taxes and in which Mrs Margaret Thatcher's claim, even if these are Protestant environments, has been accepted with insult by these societies. I'm talking about Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway. Besides, Margaret Thatcher didn't have a funeral, so if someone's counting. For a beautiful funeral, let's... I speak especially to those who support low taxes. You too, Senator Frost, will not deserve a solemn funeral, especially on the part of the union. Well, they turned around, whistled and even worse, obscene scenes took place. Neither did I for these reasons wanted to speak, reminding me a bit of history. As I said, the issue of tax proportions falls within the national identity and thus, among others. diversity in this respect. That's what happened. It's about this debate, so there's only low taxes, which means we're living on someone's tab. It happened in the 17th century, that is, in the beginning of the bankruptcy of the Noble Republic, which, like us here, proclaimed the slogans of constant tax reduction or non-payment of taxes, which led to the fact that even kings, forced into this homeland, fled under mysterious circumstances... It is the nobleman who, as it turned out in this debate, still exists, who was against taxation, any tax, including those collected to defend borders and even their property. And that's what caused it, Mr. Frost. It's worth knowing, because today you're in charge. Charles XII, brave, but first of all armed with state cannons, which arose from the taxes of Swedish citizens or then residents, crashed 4 countries, including the Polish nobility, which at the sound of Swedish cannons not only did not manage to remove their swords, but even ran away from fear. And that's what's important. The State's power lies not so much in taxes as in an efficient tax system. And it's not true that every tax is a contribution. This tax is a form of organizing a community. No one's gonna clean their own house or their own house. It will be cleansed when we take Community action. But Community action can't just rely on passwords. More than that, sometimes the tax system merges the nation. Unfortunately, in France, the motorways, which are the essence of the economy, are the foundations of the economy there is transport. They are private and thus, of course, closed to many, and in those Germany, where they are still and to the surprise of all, free of charge, because the principle of solidarity of the state is implemented, because there is a principle that everyone has access to it, everyone has the opportunity to use it... And this highway consists of German taxpayers. It is similar in Sweden and Denmark. It is worth remembering this when we talk about it when we are being seduced by journalists who cannot conduct a tax debate and start all political debates by asking: when will you lower taxes? And it is true that taxes in Poland are among the lowest in Europe. And maybe that's why there's not enough money sometimes to clean up the streets or to insure them from weather disasters, among other things. It's cold. If the frosts come, our highways will probably be clogged again. I am also saying this because we live in a great community, a community that is characterised by enormous consumption. But even more important is the way of investing, including by the state. The State is an important element of the investment. You said you needed to invest in demography. Well, what great sums these are, what great challenges. Then you need to know what that means. And I hear that Prime Minister Morawiecki is bragging about tax cuts, and you, Mr. Frost, say you've lowered your insurance. I say again: the rates for those insured, let's say, businessmen... What right do you take away those who have worked 40 years for their future for their life? You take them away and give them to others in the name of populist politics. It's not an instrument of propulsion. The drive instrument is an investment, and it's not every investment Because the communists also invested a lot, even overinvested Only an appropriate investment. I'm asking you, where are those electric cars that were supposed to be millions of dollars this year or next year? I haven't even noticed the screw in that car yet. Thirty... [[They're in these new apartments.]] Oh, for the kids. But these are Japanese, Chinese, not Polish, Mr. Senator Augustine... I ask this because it could be this Polish investment, it could be those Polish 3 gr put into the development of civilization, in investments, in good pay. Mr. Marshal, I don't want to have this debate... [[Thank you.]] ...I don't want to count how many taxes have been raised, how much have been reduced. One thing is certain: you can't live on credit, because credit to be repaid will always be higher than its basis than the contribution to this credit. And under the PiS government, unfortunately, the debt has increased again by 1.5%. Which means we're probably gonna have to pay 2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! Well, there's nothing like talking about taxes that excites you. It's obvious. So it should not be surprising that it is hot today and that we reach for different axiological bases, etc. I only wanted to refer to two things, but Senator Rulewski provoked me and I'll start at three. Well, I am close to the idea that taxes must be applied that they must be shared wisely in order to carry out various works, to deal with matters that are important to society as a whole. And since it is a rude act, it always wakes up and arouses controversy, the more that... because I understand the statement of Senator Rulewski holistically. There is no belief that taxes are properly distributed fairly, distributed efficiently, and that they are really used to increase and permanently extract people in difficulty on the surface of their own self-existence, on their own income. This is, of course, difficult, but not the place for this debate here. But I would like to remind you of two things that are important with regard to this law. One. The Civic Platform, raising VAT from 22 to 23%, has done so in the worst global financial crisis and the biggest financial difficulties our country has experienced. It is often emphasized that then Poland's debt increased because it increased but it was the price that we would maintain this minimum then and the only economic growth in Europe and we would somehow go through this crisis more gently. There's nothing for free, which is why you had to raise that tax. But there was a promise that if the situation went back to normal, if growth returned, this tax would be reduced. [[The bill reduces it automatically because it was for a certain period of time.]] Yeah, yeah, that promise was written down in the bill because it was guaranteed that it was a temporary solution. Growth returned, and it returned when the Law and Justice came to power, very critical of that movement and promising that it would absolutely reduce this tax back to 22%. So don't be surprised that we're all going back to those words today. Well, if you hadn't promised, we probably wouldn't have any reason to go back to that. But these promises have been made, and today they are not kept, although the budgetary situation allows them to be kept, absolutely allows them to be kept. So if you don't do it, then there is a question about truthfulness and the value of your promises and what this money is meant to be for. The second point I would like to address is the words of Senator Mr.Mroz, who we probably owe to raising the temperature of today's debate. Mr. Senator, I think we'll agree on this... Because you've been to this committee meeting, just like I have, and you've heard it. Well, you're the president, so I can call you to the stand as well. As a representative of the Ministry during our committee debate, he said that 20% of this increase was responsible for fees and climate issues. For 20%. So covering yourself with this now is absolutely an abuse. You have to be precise. I agree with you, sir. That this is a 20% issue And everything else is the result of wrong decisions, mismanagement. There was talk of RES here, I'm just gonna throw in a combination of the power sector and the mining sector and pull its financial results down. Look at the stock market, how in WIG20 are the quotations of energy companies, which, as we know, And we support these energy companies, they have huge investments to make, also from EU funds, for which own contribution is needed. In view of these results, in view of such a decline on the stock exchange, these companies obviously do not have any money, and the investments must go and develop. Where do you get that money, if not from the market, if not from people and companies? That's the essence of this raise, that's the point. So this mistake, this one, even I'd say, the temptation you've succumbed to... I remember our governments well, and that there was also an idea at the time to connect power plants to mines. Yeah, that was the idea. Only then the energy sector defended itself with arms and legs, showing that it would ruin him. We have not succumbed to this temptation, and you have done so. And we have what we were afraid of, and you have not taken it into account as a serious risk that will ultimately hit consumers themselves, all consumers, no matter how we translate this money. Because let us remember that the compensation project covers only the year 2019. And then what? What, by the end of the world, there's gonna be these subsidies? No, it's not. So we all know I don't know how the government's gonna get out of this. That these are clearly 2 wrong decisions: the one concerning RES and the one concerning energy policy. You could get angry and watch the boards of companies change, how many wrong personal decisions were there, how many briefings, etc., etc. Of course, we also have to pay for this carousel of positions, for those highly paid people who are not managers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add one more thing. Mr. Senator, of course, the 20% that is at the price of energy is not enough. Except for fairness, let's add what's going on. After all, it is not about making difficulties for anyone, nor about making Poles angry, but about making less people die in Poland every year because of contaminated air. Because today they die to 50,000. Their lives, our lives are taken care of by the Union. While we were in it, we agreed that this was an important issue, requiring effort, demanding, unfortunately, to bear certain expenditures, costs, etc. And that's what everyone has to do on their own. I hope you're as smart as you can be. So I will always object to such an argument here that an external Union is doing something to some country in spite of. Well, it's not. There are certain goals, common to us, important in this case. It is about a clean environment, after all, our environment, our own, Polish. So I would ask that, as we speak about these EU decisions, it is always to say what the objectives behind them have been, what they want to achieve. Because then we catch the balance that is at stake in the assessments of our common European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several points that have been said in this debate should also be corrected. First of all, the idea that public debt is growing. Well, the data I have in front of me is the data from the Public Finance Debt Management Strategy for the years 2019 to 20202, prepared by the Ministry of Finance, clearly show that the truth is completely different. Here we are dealing with a decrease in debt nominally by PLN 3.5 billion between 2016 and 2017, because here are data for closed years. So in zlotys, that's 3.5 billion zlotys less. This is much better in relation to the gross domestic product, because we are talking about a decline, which is very significant: the ratio of the amount referred to in the Public Finance Act... The state public debt converted at average rates and reduced by the value of the pre-financing funds for loan needs in the next financial year at the end of 2017 was 47.7%. GDP. This is below 48%, the threshold specified in the stabilizing rule. At the end of 2016 I will say this so that the senators have this data. It was 49,4%. So we have a drop in GDP from 49.4 to 47.7%. Therefore, the argument that the public debt is growing here is absolutely not valid. It falls both in relation to GDP, which we are growing perfectly and in quota terms. It is worth knowing not to mislead the public. This law contains a very important element, an important mechanism for the return to the 2011 rates. In 2011, the government of Donald Tusk increased VAT rates from 22% to 23% and from 7% to 8%. Yes? The Act contains a mechanism when we can return to these rates from 2011. Well, there are legal conditions when this happens. When the public debt falls below 43% gross domestic product and when the deviation from GDP is 6%. We at the meeting of the public finance committee asked the Minister when, according to the calculations and projections prepared by the Ministry of Finance, this could happen. I will leave the Minister with an answer to that question. The Minister has all the data with him. I can tell you that soon. And the specific dates resulting from the projections prepared by the Ministry of Finance will leave this pleasure to the Minister. Thus, this law contains a plan to return to the 2011 rates. This bill is a very balanced bill. After all, we do not depart from the mechanism of the annual renewal of those rates which were raised in 2011 to the mechanism which was entered into the Act. That's very important information. Having corrected the information on public debt, I must also refer to the issue which was raised in the speech of my previous speaker, namely the issue of rising energy prices, and pay attention to what the government praised Donald Tusk. Success was when we sold CO2 certificates to other countries, making a profit. It was a billion-dollar income. Now we don't have those certificates. So much for referring to Senator Augustine's speech. Amount data What amounts have been obtained as a result of the sale of those certificates and also... [[At what prices?]] Excuse me? [[And at what prices?]] And at what prices? And also about the involvement of a group that's currently being interested in the prosecution, as far as I know. Yes? So that we are dealing with criminal activities in the trading of these certificates. I'm sure the Minister will be able to present it or present it to us at the request of the senators. That is my request to the Minister. I think that the information that will appear in public space, the sale of these certificates in previous years, the prices that were then offered and the current prices of these certificates will allow us to determine who did this damage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The discussion is quite long and I do not want to go back to many threads, but one subject is so current that I do want to address it. It is about electricity prices for companies. We have shown great concern about prices for individual customers here, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very important whether companies know at what price they will buy electricity when they start the new accounting year. In fact, the company's strategy for next year was a month, two months ago. There was information that the current would get worse. Energy has come up with proposals for new contracts. Those who believed the Minister that the increase would be made have signed such agreements, with a higher price of 30%. Now what? In view of the fact that the increases will not be made, can we conclude that these agreements are invalid and return to the old price? Or should we say that the companies that planned their strategy are losers and now they're gonna pay for it? Or should it be considered that the Minister has misled entrepreneurs by talking about increases, and at the moment these companies could file a lawsuit? Well, because they took the Minister's statement seriously, they planned their strategy based on this information, and now they're going to suffer huge losses. There are companies for which the cost of electricity is crucial. And if we have companies in the same industry, one of which is 30% cheaper than the other, then the one with the more expensive current falls out of the market. It's a pimple. There's no other way. You can add money to a state firm. Not to a private person. So please take this question seriously: will the government withdraw from the energy increase also be able to cancel all these contracts with energy for next year, which assumed an increase in electricity prices for companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u31	Mr. Senator Rulewski. For the second time, right? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Bierecki, thank you for not calling my name as a polemitist, but you argued with me about the debt. Well, I have to correct your remarks, which makes me sad, because I think you're in the economy... He leads here, on behalf of the Senate, the most important of the committee. The latest figures indicate that Poland's public debt increased by PLN 27 billion. If you're confusing the terms "debt growth" and "absolute growth," then... You're right, just like the Minister, who's been asking us all kinds of smokescreens about my questions. Indeed, the increase, the relative rate of growth has decreased, but the increase has taken place and is already 27 billion PLN this year. This is 500+ and other additions. Moreover, Mr Senator, Mr President of the Commission and Mr Senator rapporteur, including a third of the debt, this is giving money abroad. If the state is so concerned about fighting abroad... that it's draining... And here you legally oblige Poland to pay appropriate, high interest abroad. And let me tell you more: in this debt there is no debt to pensioners. I mean, contributions are capitalized. There's a promise that they'll be paid. And that includes debt. It's not included either. And that's why it's... But Senator Frost is right that it's actually the debts that retirees will pay for. Today it can be said that each of us, even the one born under the 500+ programme, is already burdened with 26 thousand PLN. And when we talk about tax policy, we can't abstract ourselves from the fact that we can have a lighter, stricter tax policy, but we have to pay our debts. There are discussions as to whether it is beneficial to be indebted to others in order to develop. They're doing it. I don't want to praise you here. The Americans certainly, Anglo-Saxons for hundreds of years: they owe themselves and others pay for their debts using the money course because they have world money. But the Polish currency of precisely such a rank of world money does not exist and the debt was created precisely because the financial and economic policy of the Polish state in the last 3 years was unfortunately aimed at weakening the zloty. And that debt... So the good of real capitalists, the sharks of financers in the West will only arise as a result of a change of course. They don't have to do anything, the course changes and Poland has to pay them a lot. That is why we need to look with care, on the occasion of the budget debate, at not losing these important and less political issues. It's a matter of energy. As an engineer, I'll say it. There is no Senator Mroz, few people notice... PiS locally, but not only locally says that we have to save coal, Polish gold. Well, as a technician, I'm going to say today: gold isn't coal or gold, not even gold. Vanadium and lithium It's what it's supposed to develop and develop civilization. Vanadium is 3 times more expensive than gold. I would like to say that excessive protection precisely, which is inefficient tax, as I call it, has caused if not the collapse of part of the chemical industry, it is freezing it, among other things. My bets. And it even put up... the prices of coal energy, which were driven plants, laid down these plants, one of the largest plants. And I will say with regret: this is unreconstructable. No one will build such plants as Poland first built before the war, later strengthened by German militarism. And it's worth remembering, too. But this is an economic policy that is not the subject of today's sitting, so I will not speak any further. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u33	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u34	Well, at the end of the day, we'll see. [[You can provoke someone else to speak, so please don't...]] Well, I'll try, but... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am literally provocative, because the bill as a law contains some proposals. I'd just like to remind you, however, that this bill postpones the VAT reduction for a period of... [[Ad Kalendas Graecas.]] ...well, not precisely defined That's what I'd say. Senator Bierecki here mysteriously announced that someone knows and someone will say, but whatever he says, it will not be a guarantee, it will only be a calculation. However, I would like to remind you that Law and Justice in the election campaign said that this reduction will happen immediately, that it is one of the fundamental points, such as the one. raising for all citizens the tax-free amount to PLN 9,000, I think... [[8,000.]] ...$8,000 for all citizens. This promise has not been fulfilled, and it probably will not. That's not the point. It's like Senator Augustine said here that if there was no such promise, no one would blame him for not lowering himself. Well, there are different policies in this area, but this promise has not been fulfilled and this law does not fulfil it either. As for energy Because on this occasion we have devoted a lot of time to electricity prices, and I would like to say that we are in a world of absurdity. Because, on the one hand, costs are rising, and there's no doubt about it. Energy companies have grounds for asking for price increases. Whether this is going to be a 30% increase in prices or not by 30%, this is another topic That's what the Energy Regulatory Office is for, he's on it. But they certainly have grounds. If the government wants to apply some compensation, relief, helping citizens or even small businesses to relieve them, of course it is also possible. However, if the whole plan is to be that companies raise prices, then companies fund a special fund, and this fund pays off these compensations, then we are really in a land of absurdity. And this country, I apologize for the colloquialism. I'm talking to my piss buddies. That's how you swallow. What kind of approach is that? What kind of professionalism does that prove? But it's not over, it's not over. After this announcement, the Energy Regulatory Office rightly states that if companies have this PLN 1 billion, then why increase prices. They say they don't, that's why they're increasing. Therefore, the Prime Minister is performing and joyfully declares that there will be no raises. Now you don't know who for. I think he mentioned that for Kowalski. There's a lot of Kowalski in Poland, so these... [[But not much...]] ...they won't pay any more. I don't know what it's gonna be like with the others. If that was the end, then, let's say to ourselves, we would say: well, we have here a normal policy of controlling such already very obvious prices, in a situation where we know they must be increased, but they will not be increased, because there are choices, there are choices, so they will not be increased. But after the election, of course, the bubble will burst. I'm sorry I'm saying this for the third or fourth time, but that's not the end of it, because today... Ah, Minister Tchórzewski said that energy companies would therefore withdraw their requests for increases in energy prices and that the case would end. Only today, at the session of the Sejm Committee, Minister Tchórzewski stated that energy companies have no reason to withdraw these proposals... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...therefore, these proposals will not be withdrawn. Well, then they have grounds. What will the Energy Regulatory Office do? I don't know. So maybe there's gonna be compensation? But if they do, what kind of money. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a farce, this is just a farce. I don't know about the Members of the Law and Justice, but the Senators of Law and Justice, the people, so to speak, ready to reflect, with a lot of experience and knowledge... How long can you tolerate this? Well, how long can you tolerate a minister like Mr. Tchórzewski, who for 3 years cannot afford any energy plan for Poland for many years? Now, on the occasion of a climate conference out of the blue, the hat announced an energy plan. What's in this energy plan? [[Coal.]] That by 2040 in the energy mix 16% nuclear power plants will be supplied by 2040. [[If it doesn't...]] Because 1 nuclear power plant, if it's got about 2 blocks, it's 1.5 MW, something like that, and 16%. This is about 9 MW, which means that by 2040 we will build from 4 or 5 nuclear power plants. All this in this beautiful, proud country is publicly presented and you do not react, you accept everything. It offends the intelligence of all of us proud Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u35	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the amending act... [[Voice from the Chamber: But, Mr Marshal, the Minister had something to say, as foretold by Mr Bierecki...]] There were no legislative proposals, which is why I didn't ask the Minister to refer... Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister has the right to refer to legislative proposals and such proposals have not been made. [[Voice from the Chamber: Was there a motion to reject the bill? What do I do here?]] [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] Well, you had time to apply. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Bierecki announced such an important speech... it was about energy and taxes and all sorts of things, and we didn't go on because we thought there would be an important response from the Minister on these important issues.]] Well, there was time for that on the committee, the minister was at the committee meeting. [[But these were some new things, supposed to be new things that were kept secret...]] I don't know anything about new things. I'm sticking to the rules. [[Okay...]] If there were legislative proposals, the Minister would have the right to refer to them, but there were no such proposals. [[We're not gonna be able to make that claim.]] Well, we can't... [[Can't the Minister refer to the debate?]] [[Voice from the room: Nah...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1028 and the report of the committee In print No 1028 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 4 December this year. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed a draft amendment to the excise duty Act. Of course, this is not about changing the whole law, but specifically about two groups, namely electronic cigarette liquid and innovative tobacco products. The term "Innovative Products' means tobacco burned in the temperature range between 300 °C and 400 °C. It is proposed to maintain the 0% rate after 31 December, by 30 June 2020, and this is a symmetrical proposal, as regards the construction principle, to the construction of the previous law. Since I have witnessed a discussion on the previous law, I assume that it will certainly create different types of interpretation and social opportunities, whether this proposal to extend the zero rate means an increase, a decrease or a maintenance of the tax at the same level. This is a government submission. The Sejm adopted this proposal on 22 November. At the committee meeting, the Minister discussed the reasons for this change. They're two. The first is that it is a market for new products and companies that are tycoons on the market, more capital-rich, have the ease of adapting to the new market situation, but for smaller, small and medium-sized producers this period was insufficient. That's one reason. The second is that the European Union is also working on common solutions for this sector, and they are not yet developed, if they occur in the coming months, they will be implemented in our legal system and if they do not, the Ministry will come forward with its proposals. The senators accepted these explanations and none of the senators spoke in the discussion. Many organisations have addressed letters to our committee, representatives of these organisations were present at the committee meeting and have taken the floor. As far as electronic cigarette fluid is concerned, they all felt the same way. 2 entities had a separate or negative view on the maintenance of the zero rate as regards novel products. As I said, all the other players were in favour of this proposal. We've moved on to the vote. As a result, the committee unanimously, with 5 votes in favour, adopted the proposal and so requested the Higher House to adopt the proposal without amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Radziwiłł, Minister Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u38	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you what organizations were asking for... what kind of projects they supported, and what kind of ones they opposed? Could we get information on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Like I said, when it comes to electronic cigarette fluid, everyone agreed. And when it comes to novelty... [[But, I'm sorry, what kind of organizations were they anyway?]] I'll tell you what. Two of them opposed this legislation, the Business Centre Club and Imperial Tobacco. Both of you. One is a company, the other is an organization signatured by one representative and both opposed to maintaining this zero rate. The Polish Tobacco Producers' Association did not support this amendment either. All other organizations, i.e. the Polish Tobacco Industry Association, the Agricultural Economy Institute, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, the Federation of Polish Entrepreneurs, the Employers of the Republic of Poland, the National Section of Tobacco Industry Workers, the Polish Association of Tobacco Planters, the Association of Entrepreneur's Rights Defence, and the National Chamber of Commerce supported the proposals presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u40	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask if anyone at the committee's meeting ever considered that tobacco industry representatives... Because you could say all those organizations that you mentioned, either directly or indirectly represent the tobacco industry. Am I right? Yes? [[Yes.]] Was there a discussion at all about a context which stems from Poland's signature and ratification of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which explicitly prohibits influence or prohibits the impact of trade interests in the tobacco industry on lawmaking? Was there even a discussion about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u42	No, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we haven't raised that issue. Rather, we dealt with budget and financial issues, because that is the scope of the issues that are the subject of our committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u43	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Minister Radziwiłł. I'd like you to come in here, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the first question I would like to ask is: have you considered what impact this regulation will have on the health of Poles? Very simple, but, let's say, big question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u45	Thank you very much. The fact is, maybe I'll start with a bigger line. The point is that this topic is important both from the point of view of companies and of course the health of Poles. We know this bill is important. It is only worth remembering what is the main factor that has decided that the mechanism for imposing this tax and all these obligations has been examined. The point is that, in the framework of the discussion in the European Union on the revision of the excise Directive, which could mean that this harmonisation process is about to emerge, we are dealing with... The basic problem is that the experience of European countries shows that these countries have a problem with the effective taxation of these new goods, and this is because there is a huge possibility of entering the grey zone. And in that sense... We were dealing with an example of Italy that withdrew. Generally, there are countries that are considering introducing a zero rate. We want to say the same thing... From the point of view, you can say safety, citizens' health is important... There is, of course, an element associated with the impact of the price on the purchase of cigarettes, the more expensive products, the more this discourages the use of cigarettes, but it is important to benefit from... This bill right here... We want to quickly transpose the banning regulations in order to effectively implement the obligation to apply bandorol, which will be of such value that legal cigarette liquids, legal novelty products will be used, and we will avoid such a situation that we are dealing with products that are much more dangerous than nicotine alone because we do not know exactly what the smokers of these electronic, innovative cigarettes really are... We do not know what their impact on the health of these people is. And we know that it can be much worse if it is a product produced abroad, containing some unknown chemicals, then its quality, the composition can be much worse than nicotine itself, which in the scientific sense is known to have an impact... For this reason, the influence of this law is... the logic of this law is as follows. Of course, we know that there is a risk of affecting the competitiveness of Polish small companies vis-à-vis these large companies if we did not make this change. But there is a second dimension, a health dimension, and we want to prepare this law and the way in which the National Tax Administration operates so that there is no situation that smokers will move to the grey zone and buy components online, which is already being observed. Well, they don't buy those goods on which excise duty is imposed, with banners, normally in points, in shops, shopping galleries, where it is visible, they only use cheaper products, non-tax, they buy online, it's parallel, you can say, black goods market, completely out of state control. And that's the risk that we want to avoid with this bill. We also want control by the National Tax Administration to be as effective as possible. And this is for the benefit of citizens who, when buying legal goods, know that it is, in fact, burdened with all these negative effects of nicotine, but it is not much worse. So that's the assumption of this bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u46	Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, unfortunately, I, during the discussion as to whether in the information that appears in relation to this law, am observing such a procedure that you are continuing here, that is to say, mainly about the oil for electronic cigarettes, while this amendment covers two types of products. In addition to this oil, which somehow fits what you said from poverty, this amendment, which is simply a reduction or a proper non-application of excise duties, is also intended to apply to the so-called. innovative products. Most people don't know what we're talking about. And novelty products are nothing but cigarettes, because it looks exactly like a cigarette and it's a cigarette. Just this cigarette. You put it not in your mouth, but in something that used to be called a firefly, and now it's a device that heats that cigarette up to a slightly lower temperature than when it burns, you can say that in simplification. Packages with these cartridges, which are de facto cigarettes, look the same as packs of cigarettes, and what's inside looks the same as cigarettes. And I don't quite understand what the problem with banning these packages is, and what the problem is when it comes to treating these products as something else. Because in fact, they're just cigarettes. They may be, according to some, are slightly less harmful, but they are certainly harmful, because they have all the attributes of a cigarette. There's no doubt about that. I have to say, I'm disappointed that you're answering half the question. Because you're basically just talking about oil. Could you comment on whether the government even considered the health aspects of these novel products, namely, in short, those cigarettes put in the electronic fireplace? Because that's the way to talk about it. This name is created in my opinion only to wash people's eyes. It is not by you that it is created, not by the government, of course, but by producers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u48	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u49	Thank you very much. Here's the full approval. I mean, if we take these doubts seriously, And we take them very seriously. In fact, this law does not in any way respond or respond very little to the problem presented by the Minister. What are we talking about? The question needs to be asked whether the current classification of novel products is really appropriate. And we are open to discussing it this month or the next month. Because notice what this bill will do. She will find that innovative products are innovative products, which are completely unrelated to cigarettes. It's already against what the Minister thinks, because it's a separate classification. The rate of taxation of this commodity is PLN 1 70 as opposed to much higher taxation. So we're actually dealing with like three possibilities. The first possibility is that we say: we leave this at zero and the tax rate in mid-2020 will be 1.70 PLN per package. The second option is that we're making a change. And she's really prepared. We've been informed that he's gonna show up. The amendment which says: innovative should be covered by this banning mechanism, all obligations for companies producing already from 1 January 2019 plus a tax rate of PLN 1,70, i.e. here we are introducing this tax. But here's the question: are we really resolving this problem that the Minister is talking about? So it's not really about whether this 1.70 zloty we put on something that is de facto a cigarette, as the Minister thinks it is or not, because it doesn't really solve the problem of what an innovative product really is. In fact, in order for us to take seriously what the Minister is talking about, we should actually say that we should not remain within this law, referring to how this law treats an innovative product, because she, so to speak, classifys it in a separate, very mild way, with low taxation, in such a way that it can be said that the manufacturers of novel products generally have no problems with this law. One American company, which is a manufacturer of innovative products, has no great objections to introducing this rate of PLN 1.70, because it is much less than standard taxation of packages, which can sometimes be nearing PLN 10. It can therefore be said that the introduction of taxation under this law on innovative products is not a problem for these large companies. Rather, if you take seriously what you're saying to the Minister... And on our part is openness to conduct this discussion, or the current classification saying that they are not cigarettes, that they should be taxed less, is appropriate and should we not in fact say that novel products should be taxed as cigarettes. This is kind of a separate topic and indeed in the coming weeks we want to return to this discussion of course. We actually do one thing, as I understand it. Namely, we say: there is indeed a topic related to e-cigarettes. And here, I understand, there was no dispute. The only dispute that was at the meeting of the Senate's public finance committee concerned the topic of innovative products. There is a conflict of 2 companies: the one that produces, and the one that believes that this is competition. And it is true that we are dealing with a dispute between two companies. One company states that it is actually good to introduce this obligation. In fact, from a point of view... What was the motivation when we were wondering whether to really delay these obligations in terms of innovative products? It's not even about the money here. Because the money that sometimes appears... the amount of PLN 1 billion is exaggerated. We know from the current trends that 20 million PLN would be the maximum amount that the Treasury would be able to obtain from the growing market of innovative products during these 18 months of extension. But it's not that I'm going to say that I'm going to impose this obligation. Here is the question whether we agree first and foremost on obligations imposed on the company, namely, first, banning, tax warehouses and obligations related to the legalization of tanks, meters and all other things. You can say that here is a little bit like this: our signals are that this big company that dominates the market today, in general there are no problems to fulfill all these bureaucratic obligations, because it is generally well known. And we've already got a report from Green Mountain that it's closing, you can say... Those who would like to enter into this and compete, already have a little tied hands, because it is not easy to learn all these obligations connected with the establishment of the tax warehouse, it is not easy to spend significant money on all these obligations related to the legalization of tanks. Each tank, each production network must be approved by the Central Office of Measurements. Therefore, it can be said that this component also affects what competition is. Please note that if you... Finally, I'll say... it's okay that we're dealing with a serious question, which is why I declare that we want to ask you what the difference is... We also have a problem with the fact that we're actually looking for, so to speak, the answer to the question of who's the expert who's supposed to answer that question. We are open, we want to open this discussion as much as possible, because we really don't want to, so to speak, make an illusion that we have a cigarette that actually burns at some temperature, let's say, 100 or 200 degrees lower, and here we have a deep classification difference, with a huge change in the level of taxation. Indeed, the first step should be to ask ourselves whether it makes sense, in the sense that innovative products, which are so similar to cigarettes, should not simply be treated as cigarettes. And then that wouldn't be the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u50	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think a little differently than you put it here. Maybe first of all, the argument that you used to extend this zero rate will prevent companies from entering the grey zone. But the mother law is from December 2017. A year was for this. So, what's next? If we didn't do something in a year, now it's gonna be another year and a half? And then there'll be another six months or next year? You didn't convince me of that argument. We're dealing with four groups here, as it's said nicely, stakeholders. The first is an ordinary citizen who smokes. I understand that in this way you do not discourage the citizen from smoking, because if the stakes are lower or zero, the novelty or electronic cigarette will be cheaper, and this citizen will simply switch to it if he wants to smoke. The second group is our tobacco producers. I understand that in this way you create more competition for them. If I'm not thinking right, then you're gonna have to get me out of the way. The third interested party is simply the Treasury. And this is about income that will not affect the Treasury in connection with this excise duty. These are the three stakeholder groups on which this bill is negative. And there's one stakeholder group she's responding to. They are those who produce electronic cigarettes and novelty products. But it's starting to smell like lobbyism, Minister. Why them? Why isn't it something like that? specific types of cigarettes? You didn't explain it to me. Because they can't be taxed? The year was to find a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u52	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u53	Indeed, these four groups of actors are well defined by you. Only the signals we have from these groups are a little different. Firstly, the previous speaker, Mr Senator, pointed out that, in fact, growers, Polish farmers who produce tobacco, are supporters of this bill. They say that actually if And that's standard... This is, of course, the result of a certain logic that we have. There is, of course, this specific character of Polish agriculture, in which the participation of tobacco growers is quite... Tobacco production is quite important from a policy perspective related to the Ministry of Agriculture. But in general, supporters, you can say... We get such signals that growers, these planters' associations, generally want cigarettes not to be reduced at any rate. Of course, there is a certain, you can say, conflict between public health Mr. Minister will probably admit it. And the interests of this industry. And in this sense, growers aren't worried about competition. They just produce their tobacco leaves. I assume that they are in favour of this bill, because they hope that those tobacco leaves that they produce will have too much better because these different tobacco products will be more popular. There's just going to be an increased demand for nicotine. In general, farmers are in favour of this. As far as companies are concerned, that is the latter component, we are dealing primarily with disputes between large companies, actually between 4 companies, which... The two largest and 2, let's say, smaller companies are the four global companies that are active on the Polish market. It is worth remembering that this is not just a dimension of the interests of these companies. Companies contact us primarily with associations that send us letters. These are employers' organisations bringing together different kinds of institutions, bringing together employers. And their argument is that, so to speak, somehow noticed. And they say that Poland is the largest cigarette producer in the European Union. In fact, Polish cigarettes are mostly produced for export. It can be said that hitting Polish cigarettes through various organizational solutions will cause damage to jobs. Of course, it is worth balancing this with the state budget and with public health, but it cannot be said that this is a completely irrelevant argument. The third thing is that the rivalry between these companies that employ these people has all these factories. Of course, this is the result of the whole Polish privatisation that we remember and the small companies that entered the market. Of course, for the time being, we are talking primarily about the e-cigarette market, although we are also getting signals of interest in the area of innovative products. One company has already volunteered. Therefore, we are dealing with a certain kind of game between big companies, which, in fact, are not very opposed to such a solution, to introduce various bureaucratic obligations related to, as I said, banning, i.e. buying banning machines, adjusting lines, organizing tax compositions, measuring devices... So you can say that big companies know that it involves responsibilities, but small companies, small associations of small producers... Polish companies are also very active when it comes to cigarettes, and already boast about the fact that they dominated the German market. They say that if this bill comes in, it will actually result in the complete domination of those big companies for which this tax warehouse, these huge costs... And they actually do it in these, you can say, halls with plastic containers. Of course, it's all safe, but if you have to replace a plastic container with one that is much more expensive, much more expensive, then these Polish small companies will have to, so to speak, give up production, they will be under pressure. In fact, they are the ones who hear this loudest cry to consider whether this law should actually come into force at that time. We were faced with signals that in fact they adjusted very late. So there's an agreement on this business map, except it's not that the negative ones... That's what we see here. Of course, this minus is public finances. Well, we consider how to effectively affect public health so that this non-smoking effect is achieved. I have the impression that it will be easier if there is a threat of the grey zone, to fight for this harmonisation mechanism and through this mechanism, because in other neighbouring countries these products will also not be so easily accessible and online sales will not work. Of course, we are watching what is happening when it comes to working on the excise directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u54	Thank you, Minister. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u55	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to remind you of such a brief quote. As I said before, Poland has been a party to the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control for many years. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of this Convention requires that the parties, when establishing and implementing their public health strategies for the control of the tobacco market, act in a way that protects these strategies against the commercial impact and other interests of tobacco companies in accordance with national law. Cigarette excise duty I don't think there's any doubt about that. It is one of the elements of the anti-titonic strategy. That's what this excise duty is for, nothing else. In the document on guidelines on how this article should be applied, the World Health Organization says: "In view of the fact that products produced by tobacco companies pose a fatal threat to human beings, these companies should not be granted incentive benefits to set up or operate.' Meanwhile, the justification for the government project can be read, among others. Such a sentence: The draft law takes into account the demands of the industry to extend the period of preparation for new fiscal and administrative burdens, e.g. obtaining a permit to hold a tax warehouse, lodge an excise security and mark with excise marks. Minister, there's something I don't understand. Please comment. In my opinion, this justification is simply clearly contrary to the international document which Poland must apply. What you're saying, discussing whether these innovative cigarettes are, or are they not a product similar to normal cigarettes... In my opinion, this is not the case. It simply follows from this justification that companies have asked to defer excise duty in time. He's supposed to be introduced later, I understand. I think there's something wrong here. Minister, please comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u56	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u57	Thank you very much. As I understand it, the logic of a document of an international nature is that we should, as a law, avoid such methods of logistical impact of companies... The point is not to have a negative impact so that companies do not have that kind of influence. When we consulted this, we were dealing with a formalized process. We discussed with entrepreneurs associated with organizations. I don't remember getting a letter from a single organization from a single company. Rather, we're talking about a business relationship or companies that were... I'd like to mention the long list you were talking about, the senator. As far as the second element is concerned, these are, as I understand it, guidelines for the application of the Convention. I am not a lawyer and I am not able to tell whether the guidelines are a law in Poland. I don't know if it's possible to say... or if there's a record in the guidelines. As for the shape, it means that in fact any activity, the consequence of which is any simplification, making it easier for some company that produces cigarettes... I don't know if that means it's possible to apply. I feel like there's a double problem here. First thing. You have to look at it in some proportion. It was already mentioned here that every time the Polish government makes any simplification for any tobacco company, for example by lowering its taxes, lowering the CIT rate or wondering how it is going to re-procede this excise procedure, it already violates this guideline. Is this a collision with this guideline? It's a matter of technology, a legal issue I can't tell you about. Perhaps the legal services of the Senate are able to express themselves, answer that question. In various ways, tobacco companies can be beneficially affected. And the other thing. Of course, here as if without... here, of course, I'm trying to find such a very general argument about my doubts, but really... I understand the logic, the logic of not wanting tobacco companies to dominate, to have a negative effect. And okay, yeah. This is not about allowing Polish law to be created under the dictation of tobacco companies, but whether such a provision or the same guidelines, which already tell in a very precise way what this law should have content, is a component that we should literally apply, or give back as if this spirit... Well, that's to be determined, too. I understand that here lawyers, the Senate's Legislative Office is able to answer the question of how to properly interpret the Convention, the WHO Convention that the Minister spoke of.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u58	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have, frankly, doubts about this law, for a simple reason, because the naked eye shows differentiation in terms of excise duty, in relation to the manufacturer of the traditional product, namely tobacco cigarettes, and in relation to the producer of the so-called. an innovative product. One of the products that is already present on the Polish market is not going to mention the name, so as not to advertise it, this innovative tobacco product is de facto a regular cigarette plus a filter, plus rubber, plus a plastic tube, having... [[Cell phone signal]] [[I'm sorry, but something's happened. There's no one whose phone...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He's got his phone...]] I may repeat once again that in practice this innovative product of this foreign concern is a de facto ordinary cigarette plus a filter, plus rubber, plus a plastic tube to make a cigarette into an e-cigarette and give it an innovative character that justifies exemption from excise duty. Even the taste of this innovative product is traditional or menthol. Therefore, I wonder why the government should have such a law in respect of which there may be confusion as to whether by accident in the background Wanted, accidentally, I think I didn't mean to. There are no practices that may be considered as having some loose connection to something called lobbying. What's the bill for? What's the point of differentiation because... I would like the Minister to explain why the government makes such a bill in this regard at all. This is a fundamental matter. Either there's equality between players and certain rules of the game, or they're equal and evener. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u60	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u61	If we want to take seriously what the senator says, we should start discussing what an innovative product is and what is different from a cigarette. And in fact, as I said before, we want to return to the discussion as to whether we should apply this law... Because, in fact, in order for the senator to be aware, there are two options, or this bill, which is here, will be adopted by the honourable House and this will mean that innovative products from 1 January... I mean, if this law is not adopted, if it is rejected, innovative products will be treated in a preferential way, it will be a rate of PLN 1,70, taxation significantly lower than the taxation of traditional cigarettes. Yes, from 1 January 2019, i.e. in half a month. And if this law is adopted, this process to impose a preferential rate will occur in mid-2020. So this is... That's all this bill's about. But I understand that the thread is different. The theme is: should innovative products be treated preferentially? Okay, we should get back to this discussion, but this is a separate topic that needs to be raised. In fact, we can say this: the logic of this discussion is not about whether innovative products really should remain preferential. Perhaps not. But this bill doesn't apply. But the questions are right, right? In the sense that it is really necessary to go back to that. This law only refers to whether manufacturers of e-cigarettes and novelty products are to be taxed from 1 January 2019 or whether they are to have a transitional period. The argument about innovative products... I understand we're not going back to discussing e-cigarettes, because the subject is already here. I'll tell you what. It's very deeply discussed. The argument for giving a transitional period for innovative products is as follows: we are also dealing with small companies that will potentially want to enter the market for innovative products in Poland. This is not an important amount for the state budget, but the final part of this whole reflection by 2020 may be that there is no such thing as innovative products... And this obviously requires a separate initiative, which of course I declare We'll start by getting opinions from different centers. It's gonna be the first step. In the first step, we should... Perhaps, if this law comes into force, it will turn out that innovative products are real cigarettes and should not be 1.70 zł per package, just almost 10 zł excise duty, which is standard for cigarettes. But it's a separate subject. What I can declare to the senator is that we will seriously lean on this and start a discussion with various scientific centres. Anyone who wants to speak will be able to speak. We're taking this case. This is obviously a more substantive issue, isn't it? It's just that we're not really settling this issue by law. We are already operating in a certain legal framework, a novel product, it is so regulated, and it is rubber, and indeed... For some people it may be wondering why it is, but this law does not resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u62	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u63	But, Minister, I'm afraid you haven't convinced me. The Lord has deepened mine, so to speak, doubts. Because, logically taking your statement before you think about it, it might turn out that some company, for example. He's gonna make billions of zlotys out of it. I wouldn't want to witness a situation like this in the future. I have the following question for you: wouldn't it be better to draw up a bill which would rule out differentiation in advance for different entities? Because you can analyze, for example, those products that are on the Polish market, and determine precisely whether they contain tobacco or not. The Tobacco Control Act clearly defines the various types of products that are treated as tobacco products. So why make a bill that raises such doubts and may be the source of some unnecessary discussion that doesn't, of course, arise because of the government? Maybe it's better worked out and maybe the Ministry would propose such amendments to the bill, so that it would be accepted and that there would be no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u64	Thank you very much. Minister. There you go. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Cold, cold again.]] [[No, it's okay.]] I hear voices that it's cold. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes.]] Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Then consider it. The discussion is warm, but I hear voices... hot... [[It's an innovative smoke...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u65	Yes. Firstly, the sum of billions of zloty is the sum presented by one company, which distributes this information and is active... The publicly known Imperial Tobacco company fighting the dominant company on this market represents this number of billion zlotys. As a matter of fact, We are looking at this discussion from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance this is a kind of game, a rivalry between two companies in the sense that this... If we can accuse someone... In answer to the question of how this law can act, it must be said that on the one hand it is not so that the extension of the zero rate is for the benefit of one group. But you can see that actually the voices and arguments that are distributed among senators have also been prepared by Imperial Tobacco. So, as I understand it, it's kind of a discussion about two companies. And it's worth remembering, and it's worth considering. As far as the question of what are the estimates of how many innovative products are sold, on the basis of the data we have, we see that this is 20 million PLN over the 18 months. So, as I say, it's not here. It's like the basis for saying they're billions of zlotys.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u66	Thank you, Minister. I have a question for you. Because it is: tobacco is produced in Poland, among other things, but we produce tobacco here. And are these innovative products manufactured in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u67	As far as I know, they are not produced in Poland. [[They're not produced in Poland?]] They're not.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u68	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u69	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, your answers to the previous question have not reassured me. But I have an extra question, more general. Namely, there are people who are addicted to tobacco and those who may become addicted to tobacco. Please tell me whether the introduction of reduced excise duty on novel products and electronic cigarettes reduces the pool of addicts or increases. Would an extra one, so I would have it called, the path, the additional possibility of addiction, and then the treatment of these people e.g. Is lung cancer in our best interest? That's the basic question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u70	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u71	From the point of view of health, addiction, of course, any mechanism that makes access to cigarettes easier because price and other mechanisms... That obviously increases... It's negative from a health point of view. So here is the full agreement that from the point of view, you can say what is the impact on smokers, this bill, because it is a certain preference for... when it comes to extending the rate... It could have an impact on the benefits of... Useful in the sense that... In terms of the number of smokers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u72	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u73	Thank you very much. Continuing with these questions, Minister, I will ask: is it right for me to think that if one wants to be free in the future from any discussion about whether any relationship, loose or not, with any form of lobbying in the process of this law, it is best to vote against any amendments and to vote against this law? Have I understood your statement correctly? And then we would really be clear about the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u74	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u75	I can't tell you how to vote not to be... I have the impression that it is, in fact, that, of course, the perception of influence is both about authors Yeah, I'm aware of that. And as for anyone who makes some changes. Full consent, in the sense that, you can say, any action is here... Because... it was even visible at the senate committee meeting we discussed. One solution was simply one company, the other was another company. And unfortunately, in general, the fundamental issue of excise duty is that the vast majority of excise duty decisions primarily affect the interests of companies. And in fact, it's possible to say that companies are active, that companies are in the fuel, tobacco, alcohol market... There's a rivalry between these sectors, too. Initiative, activity can be seen primarily on the side of companies. And it is worth to be aware that it is always, you can say, sensitive from the lobbying point of view of the market. Here's the full approval.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u76	Minister, I have a question, so general. Does the differentiation of tax rates of similar products not give rise to an additional possibility to circumvent this higher rate? Shouldn't uniform rates be used?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u77	In general, I can only answer this question in a yes. If we're dealing with similar goods... For example, in the area of VAT, initiatives relating to the matrix are, as I say, so that similar goods are not covered by different VAT rates. The same, of course, in the case of excise duties. If we're dealing with a situation like this, And as I understand this voice of Minister Radziwielła It is important to look at this issue and to decide whether innovative products these are not cigarettes, then full consent, it should be taken seriously, but of course being fully aware that this law does not apply, that it is already included in another legal act, in the law of the mother who speaks of all these goods. Agree with what the marshal said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u78	I have one more question: will the introduction of a group of novel products into this tobacco bill cause the will to... Or else: are there also similar novelty products in the case of alcohol? [[Voice from the room: Acces...]] Is there an excise duty?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u79	I mean, about the excise... It is generally so that there are certain standards for beer and indeed we have been dealing with attempts to produce beer in a different way than on the basis of malt, which is subject to a specific technological process. In fact, we have avoided this, and we do not currently have any such problems on the beer market. As far as spirit alcohol is concerned, we are so convinced that this problem that arises in the case of the production of spirit alcohol is that we are dealing with illegal production, illegal imports from outside the eastern border, or production based on the disinfection of contaminated alcohol. There are no such products on the wine market. Of course, there are some attempts, so to speak, to treat certain goods in a certain way. The way we want to react... We are wondering whether to take a certain initiative consisting of binding excise duty information, so that this information is actually... so that, as I say, the KAS has full control over what these binding excise information is issued, whether it is appropriate to assign, you can say, excise rates to this product. And this control regarding the operation of the KAS is. In general, there are no such big risks. Rather, when it comes to major budget losses, it is a matter of illegal alcohol.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u80	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, on this occasion, I'd like to ask you, because I've been asking you this for many years, when you're going to put up with this one. Well, I don't want to call it bad. It's a really bad recipe that talks about swapping bands. In the case of cigarettes, if the rate of excise duty changes, all operators who trade in cigarettes, starting from small shops to wholesalers and factories, must mention the so-called ones within 3 months. Old bands, which are legal, for new ones. If they don't, and they stay out there somewhere in some store... This especially applies to small shops, those somewhere in villages, where sometimes you will misplace a few packages that were lying bought, with an old banner, and there are very high penalties, because it is a fiscal crime. It's supposed to be changed by now. What's that recipe for anyway? This is not in the case of alcohols, it is not in the case of other products. In the case of cigarettes, you've insisted on swapping bands to rip up packages, stick them, order them, sometimes return them. There really is a big deal. You can't see it from the ministry, but down there, when it comes to these businesses, and most grocery stores are selling tobacco, that's a really crappy recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u82	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u83	Thank you very much. As I understand it, this situation occurs when there is a change in the rate. There are no plans to change the rate and there will be no change in the rate, so this problem, I understand, is hypothetical. What I can declare hypothetically, of course, within the limits of the amendments to the excise Directive, is that if there was a need to change such excise duty in the future, It's a necessity I don't see yet. In this hypothetical situation, of course, it is worth considering the senator's voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u84	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u85	I'm opening a discussion. Senator Radziwiłł will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is with great regret that I have learned that we must debate this bill. The questioning session that took place has already shown various directions and doubts that arise in connection with the bill. You have to start by saying that this is a law that treats electronic cigarettes and so-called cigarettes. innovative tobacco products and both This has already been decided and there is no doubt about it, they have been dealt with by the EU directive, as well as by the Polish legislation, the Polish anti-tobacco law, for tobacco products. There's no doubt about it. So that various such claims that the use of these products may, for example, be possible. It's just not true to get out of the habit. These are tobacco products, and most often produced by the same tobacco companies, which simply shift from what is no longer so popular, because they burn the ground under their feet. They have to sell their products somewhere. And especially when it comes to a product called an innovative tobacco product, i.e., more unambiguously, a cigarette put into such an electronic firefly that heats it so hard that it actually almost burns, not quite... These aren't things we shouldn't care about, because of course. There's no doubt about that. Both are deadly products. Poland has been a signatory of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Protection for many years, and there is such a very important provision that Poland has, of course, also accepted by signing and ratifying this agreement. It says that the impact of the tobacco industry, which trades deadly dangerous products, on public health strategies, must be countered. Tobacco excise duty is, of course, part of this strategy, because there is no better way in the world to discourage people from smoking. In particular, dissuade people from starting smoking How high is the price of these products. It is so well proven in the world, as well as in Poland, that it is certainly a decision whether to impose excise duties, possibly to what extent, is a decision concerning a public health strategy. Unfortunately, this law already in its own justification, which was presented at the moment when the project was sent to the Sejm, says that it is a law which corresponds to the requests of the industry. This is the tobacco industry. And in any event, part of it is responsible for this regulation. This is very sad because, in my opinion, this violates the principles that we should follow when deciding on tobacco products, especially those decisions that translate into the amount of consumption of these products. And excise duty is such an element. If we look at the legislative process on the websites of the Government Legislative Center... The Minister wasn't sure, but I already checked it out. There, in principle, on this law - Well, then there's the project. Only tobacco companies, possibly associations of tobacco companies, take the floor. So it is this industry that is keenly interested in this regulation. I repeat once again: there is very well documented evidence worldwide that cheaper tobacco products mean more smokers. This means that we are further away from Poland free from tobacco smoke in the future. There's been a lot of talk about air purity lately, but there's no air as contaminated as this air that breathes through one or another tobacco product, whether traditional or innovative, a person who smokes, vaps, inhalations or whatever it's called, which is just consuming a tobacco product. There's no more contaminated air. And that's just the facts. In Poland, there has been a significant drop in the number of smokers for many years, but this still affects more than 30% of men and almost 20% of women. Unfortunately, there is evidence that we are dealing with a problem in terms of further lowering the number of smokers, especially among young people. What is most troubling, which should be of particular concern to us, such a group of people who smoke, are young women or even girls. And that's what they call it. electronic cigarettes and in the future Maybe, because so far it's not popular. These innovative products that's what's gonna be the gateway to tobacco addiction. And unfortunately, there are an increasing number of reports that vaping people, i.e. using e.g. electronic cigarettes, are people who also smoke ordinary, traditional cigarettes, it just depends on the circumstances. In places where you can't use a cigarette that stinks, you use an electronic cigarette. We need to realise that all those smoking men, 30% of those men and almost 20% of women... [[Voice from the room: Do you smoke?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...they're people who are gonna get some kind of detox disease sooner or later. First of all will be respiratory diseases, primarily chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cardiovascular disease, primarily myocardial infarction, of course also lung cancer, also stroke and many, many very different diseases, including the less serious ones. 100,000 smokers a year in Poland die from detoxic diseases. Almost 100,000. And these numbers need to be taken into account when we make any decisions that can encourage this number to continue to increase. And finally, because the Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance... This is not the most important thing, in my opinion, but this should also be taken into account. It's about costs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been proven many times that smoking costs, including those calculated in money, are greater than any financial income and benefit from the production and purchase of cigarettes. It just doesn't pay off either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u87	Thank you, Senator. The next speaker will be Senator Silencer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I can't support this bill. She may take into account many economic conditions, perhaps also financial, perhaps even legal. But he doesn't take into account one thing I have to guard. It does not take into account the health of Poles. That's why I'm sad that she showed up as an offer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u89	Senator Dowhan will speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I didn't know that a colleague would have such a short speech and I didn't have time to put everyone in my head... Minister Radziwiłł spoke about these numbers and diseases. Well, even if I wanted to smoke now, I certainly wouldn't smoke, although I admit I smoked when I was young. Well, like a young man, it's not always responsible. I can't imagine it today. I'm not really in favour of this bill, Minister, because although health is the most important thing, it's primarily equality when it comes to taxes, excise duties... Whether these are innovative solutions or archaic solutions, it is worth keeping justice, even when it comes to tobacco products. I know the novelties... They may sound innovative, but there's nothing like it. There's the same process as regular smoking, but it's done on an electronic heating basis, as the Minister said. It's been very widespread today. However, please note that at the beginning such an electronic cigarette could be used e.g. in restaurants, I saw that even airplanes could be used And today is a total ban. And it's the same as with regular tobacco products. You can't smoke in public places, you can't smoke in airplanes, etc. If you listen well to the voices of my colleagues in the Senate... Well, I don't think there should be a bill like that. I think we're gonna be against it as a platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u91	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Chróścikowski. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, let me remind you that point five, i.e. The law on amending the act on value added tax has already been examined. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The text of the act is contained in print No 1023, and the report of the committee In print No 1023 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! At its meeting on 4 December this year, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services in print No 1023. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u93	Thank you. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, because right now the senators can report a question to the Senator of the rapporteur from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Filip Świtała, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Maybe briefly.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is a law that implements 2 Council Directives, the so-called provisions. the voucher directive and certain provisions of the Directive on the provision of distance services by electronic means. The changes are purely technical and have the task of improving the VAT system to patch certain holes or gaps that occur in this system, but not on the part of not paying the tax, but on the part of facilitating the lives of taxpayers. The Bonus Directive introduces a harmonised recognition scheme for VAT purposes of vouchers, such as, say, documents which it issues, for example. the employer of employees so that they can buy some goods for holidays as a bonus, and the Directive on the provision of distance services by electronic means introduces such facilitation for newly established enterprises in the electronic industry, so that they can provide their services in the European Union, outside Poland, or, if they provide these services outside Poland, in Poland, without paying VAT in the country where these services are provided, up to PLN 42 000, that is the equivalent of EUR 10 000. That's all I'm saying. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u95	Then wait a moment, Minister, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you very much.]] [[Bravo.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. The text of the act is contained in print No 1031, and the report of the committee In print No 1031 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 4 December this year. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has examined the Law amending the Act on Retail Tax. The main or only element of this law is the deferral of the application of this tax until 1 January 2020. According to the current rules, this tax would apply from 1 January 2019, but I think we all remember, because much of the excitement of the introduction of this regulation has caused the European Commission to question its introduction and enter into a dispute with our government. This dispute continues, and we are waiting for it to be settled. Since it is still missing, this tax cannot be applied from 1 January, and therefore the request from the Ministry of Finance to postpone its application until 1 January 2020. The Legislative Bureau has not made any comments. The senators did not speak during the discussion either. As a result of the vote, it was adopted unanimously, by 5 votes, by this law and with such a proposal, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances asks the High House to adopt this submission without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u97	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski called in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, was the tactics of the Polish Government, the defender of this law discussed at the committee meeting? I have nothing to accuse the government of defending the business, I believe, of Poland, but on the other hand we must also ask about the success in this dispute and its costs. For example, the fact that the bill needs to be renewed... In other words, what are the chances of winning this dispute, and what will be the consequences of losing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u99	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u100	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there was no discussion about this. The Minister informed us that a hearing took place on 26 September 2018 and we are waiting for a justification and for a verdict... The sentence is already so that he should be, if anything... I haven't heard anything change in the last few days, we're expecting it in the near future, and depending on the way it sounds, the ministry will take further steps. [[Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u101	Are there any further questions? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u102	I'd like you to fill in for me. Is there any way to know this sentence? Same sentence, no justification. [[There's no judgment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u104	There's been a trial, but there's no verdict. We're waiting for that sentence. [[But you said your sentence had already passed, and you're just waiting for a reason.]] No, no. I replied that the trial took place on September 26th, but there is no judgment yet. He should collapse in the coming days, weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u105	Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Filip Świtała, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, like to speak on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Yes.]] Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Maybe I can answer these questions, so complementary. There's been a trial, but there's no judgment or justification. We expect this sentence to come to pass in the near future, but it should be understood here in the near future that this will happen within a few months. This isn't gonna happen before Christmas or even this year. It'll almost certainly be next year, probably his first half, even the first half of the first half. This unfortunately depends on the Court of Justice of the EU in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u107	Wait a minute, because right now, senators can report a question from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Senator Czerwinski reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If we lose, we lose. Nothing's gonna happen. But maybe we'll win. And why do we delay the collection of this tax for a year if the sentence can be declared already in January or February? That's the first line. Why not six months? And the second question is, what about those lost taxes we haven't charged in three years? Did we, when we applied to the Court, reserve ourselves a fashionable security of execution, e.g. in the form of a sum that the European Commission should return to us? If she was wrong, she should have returned the tax we didn't collect, and we could have collected it. And the third question. It's a lawsuit... Perhaps otherwise: these complaints from the European Commission were due to the fact that there were 2 rates that she was there. It's kind of progressive. Shouldn't we just move away from progress and introduce a uniform turnover tax? Maybe it would even be an opportunity to leave the unfortunate VAT. Would it be possible to introduce a simple turnover tax? Someone would say, but after all, everyone, including the smallest ones, will pay it. But at the moment, the smallest pay taxes, and large companies in general avoid paying taxes in Poland. So maybe that's the way they don't do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u110	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, High Izbo! The situation is that we postpone this tax for a year, because this sentence we expect will be a first instance judgment. There is a significant likelihood that this dispute will escalate. If our rations are not taken into account, we are likely to sue this sentence until the second instance. It is also very likely that if our arguments are taken into account, the Commission will sue for second instance. Therefore, there is a significant likelihood that this dispute will not end with a first instance judgment. If that were the case, we would have to prepare for the amendment of this law as soon as possible. And we're prepared for that possibility. As for your question about some sort of compensation... [[Security.]] ...security, there's no way to secure a tax suspension action. Let me add that it was not that we voluntarily suspended this tax. It was the Commission's decision on the basis of which, in accordance with the existing procedures, the Treaty and the rights that apply, we had to suspend this tax. This was the Commission's ruling. Therefore, we operate in a certain procedure and we do not have the possibility of securing ourselves on the road, let's say, judicially against the damage that results from the fact that at the moment this tax is suspended. As for such a more general question, yours, Mr Senator, concerning turnover tax and who pays it, the truth is that if we simply abolished progress, this tax would have to be paid by all the shops, and our aim was to take into account that there is an administrative burden associated with this tax, which, in our opinion, justifies that rates may vary. As part of the process that is going on, we think that rates can be differentiated according to objective criteria, such as, for example, Rotate. The Commission's position is de facto close to that of... The Commission says that progressive taxes cannot be imposed on economic activities. In my opinion, it is It's very inappropriate, but that's my opinion. Of course, in this case, the court will rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u111	Thank you, Minister. Anybody else want to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item nine of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Feed. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1027 and the report of the committee In print No 1027 A. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I don't understand. What about the eighth?]] I explain that point eight will be shifted because the Minister is on his way and he won't make it. We're not wasting our time. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[The Minister can't come. Your bill, and the minister is ignoring you.]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Wiesław Kilian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to present a report to the Act amending the Law on Feed. The Law amending the Law on Feed is intended to amend the provision of the article. 65 postpone until 1 January 2021 the date of entry into force of Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) prohibiting the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feedingstuffs and genetically modified organisms intended for use in feedingstuffs. During the committee meeting, the current senators voted in favour of the bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u113	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator, do you copy? [[I'm here on a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u114	I'm very sorry, I understand everything, but... sorry, Mr. Marshal. There is a set agenda, we are prepared, there are senators, people, and the Deputy Minister says that he will arrive around 3 p.m. or 4 p.m. . I'm really sorry, but are we? As Senate, aren't we being ignored in this way? I don't know how to relate to that. There's order, there's points, there's phones. I'm so sorry. Please take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u115	Mr. Senator, here's the position. There have been times in the past that we have done such shifts on the agenda. If the senator raises reservations and asks us to get back to the previous order, we'll be voting on it, but I don't think there's any... [[I'm not asking.]] Thank you very much. You expressed your position. This will be included in the protocol. The bill was filed by the government. Is there a government representative? [[Voice from the room: No.]] There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion. None of your senators signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 and 2020 and the Law on Forests. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1026, and the report of the Commission In print No 1026 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to present information related to the Act amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Law on Forests. That's the title of this bill. The aim and subject-matter of this law is to shorten and simplify the selection process for operations submitted through a competition by the partners of the National Rural Network, as well as to include changes to the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period in the legal system. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask the senators to silence their conversations.]] The changes consist mainly of the adoption by a central unit of all tasks related to the evaluation and selection of the operations of the partners of the National Rural Network; the increase of the financial limits available to the Agricultural Advisory Centre based in Brewinów; the simplification of the procedure for selecting the operations of the partners of the National Rural Network at national level submitted to the central unit by means of a competition; the simplification of the competition documentation on the content of the rules of procedure, the construction of the contract form for the implementation of the operation and the application form, the classification of the new... [[Senator, I'd like to ask you to take your seat, because it's a little disturbing.]] ...support for investments enhancing the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value; take into account the requirements of European Union legislation in the legal system and enable the agricultural advisor to obtain specialisation also after completing only postgraduate studies in the field of particular specialisation. After hearing the information from the Minister at the committee meeting, no one came forward for discussion. The proposal for changes was accepted with understanding. The vote for the bill was unanimous. No one has made any comments or proposals of a legislative nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u117	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No one.]] No one's checking in. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. To represent the government in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voice from the room: And the government is gone.]] ...was authorized by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. [[Voice from the room: There is no one to ask.]] [[Report a formal motion.]] [[Proposal for a formal...]] I state that a government representative did not attend the Senate meeting. I hear he's on his way, but we're not gonna wait. At present, senators may ask questions, but there is no government representative. I'm opening a discussion... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There you go... [[But your figure...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Request for minutes.]] [[We can't... can we?]] [[Voice from the room: Formally.]] [[Find out what we're supposed to do. 'Cause it's basically just disrespectful...]] In what mode, Senator? [[Well, what do you mean, no minister?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But at what point?]] [[In regular mode.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, you are very efficient and culturally conducting your deliberations. But here you asked a question... You said we should start the questioning procedure with the government's representative after you said the minister wasn't here. So we don't really know who to direct these questions to. That's one thing. [[Mr. Senator, the case is...]] And I'm bringing it in... But I'm going back to the previous point: we already have a second case that there is no government representative. Shouldn't you, first of all, apply for a break in order to so express the inventory of these presences and, second, the eighth point, the law on graves, move to another hour or time limit? [[There's no minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u119	Do you support the request for a break? The minister's on his way. There is no formal proposal, so we continue. I'm opening a discussion at this point. Who among you signed up for the discussion? None of your senators signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1032, and the Commission's reports In the forms 1032 A and 1032 B. [[Mr. Marshal!]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present a report... [[Mr. Marshal!]] Please?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Let me be quite clear: please order a break until the arrival of the persons necessary for the procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u121	I'm ordering a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 14 minutes 06]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1032, and the Commission's reports In the forms 1032 A and 1032 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report to the High House on the Committee on Budget and Public Finance adopted by the Sejm on 23 November this year. an act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of a mining undertaking. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances dealt with the law in question. In Barborka, we treated it as almost a gift for such a great holiday, an expression of respect for the work and merit of our miners. The Commission, after considering this law, did not raise any objections during the discussion, nor was there any legislative objections, and proposes that the High House adopt this law without amendments. This law grants compensation benefits for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company to workers who have not received these benefits under the Law on these compensations adopted in October 2017. In response to a question addressed to the minister by one of the senators, Senator Kleina, how that law worked, what it looks like today, we were informed that in March this year we complied with that law, that all the benefits provided by that law were paid, that is, as if we were keeping our word and being fully satisfied with that law. It is envisaged that 24 000 80 persons will be covered by this law and that the amount of PLN 240 million will be allocated. She covers in detail... The Act clarifies who to refer to: former employees whose employment relationship with a mining company was dissolved under the Act of 13 March 2003 on special rules for the resolution of employment relations with workers, pensioners, widows, widows having a fixed right to a survivor's pension after the entitled person and many others, I will not exchange them because I have to read the entire law. As I said, these are more than 24 thousand people, the funds are, the people are waiting for this bill to be implemented. Thus, for this reason, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. She's important and expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u123	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like my colleague, the senator has already briefly presented the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, so I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. In the beginning, I would like to thank you very warmly for preparing this bill on compensation. This law complements this catalogue of persons who will be entitled to receive this compensation benefit. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of this law, workers will be covered by this provision, whose employment relationship with a mining company has been terminated under the Law of 13 March 2003 on special rules for the termination of employment relationships with workers for reasons not affecting workers and who, after the termination of this employment relationship, have acquired the right to unemployment benefit and immediately after the end of the collection of this benefit, pensioners and pensioners having a fixed right to a pension or pension for incapacity to work, and What's important? Widows, widows and orphans who have a fixed right to a survivor's pension after a deceased worker during a working relationship, retired or retired from a mining undertaking if the loss of entitlement to free coal has not been otherwise compensated for. I do not hide that very often many of those who were not included in the previous Act of October last year requested that they also be able to avail themselves of the power of this Act. This bill, which has entered the Senate and which we are proceeding, includes this extended catalogue. And from this point on, I would like to thank the Ministry very much once again for preparing this law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation requests that this law be adopted without amendment. I would also like to add that during the debate, the debate at the committee meeting asked whether this benefit would not affect other benefits, for example. for alimony or social security benefits. The explanation by both the Ministry and the Legislative Office was that this bill would not affect this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u125	Thank you. At present, senators may submit questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u126	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator... [[Which rapporteur?]] It's for the senator. That's easy to point out, because you said the senator before. I don't understand your dual emphasis, thank you to the ministry. As I recall... And that's the first question. Why do you thank me for the fact that there is an extension of the Episcopal Act last year, the lump sum of which was finally to solve the case? Second question. Don't you think this form of thanks hurts those miners who didn't receive this last year? So the point is, the ministry that you're empathizing like this... which you're ordering here didn't make that bill right. And finally, the third question. Does this mean that this is a tapeworm bill that can be added to other groups? I would already include miners soldiers in the period of the Polish People's Republic, who did not get a deputy either. That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u127	There you go. Three questions, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Those issues that you spoke about were not addressed at the committee meeting. Personally, I believe that the process of compensation and payment of compensation for the loss of the right to free coal is very complicated because it covers many very different conditions of previously concluded collective agreements. I would also like to remind you that this benefit was somehow received in 2015 by the directors of mining companies from the Platform and PSL nominations. It's just so... [[No, it wasn't picked up.]] Yeah, but we're talking about facts. This witness was then pronounced. And those contracts were made then. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At that time they were spoken, precisely in those years 2014 and 2015 during different periods. We're bringing it back. And this thanks to me isn't ordering or handing out awards, as the senator put it, it's just an expression on my part of the satisfaction that a draft of this type of bill A very important society, which will fully cover all the eligible, while the earlier law did not include them, has been submitted. And that's all it is. [[Next? Do you have all the answers...]] [[And yet... is this law tapeworm, or is it finished?]] Mr. Senator, I don't know the definition of the tapeworm bill. I haven't met with that term anywhere. I think this bill is, if I presume, what is the definition of your senator here? It concludes the process of compensatory benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u129	Are there any further questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Tobiszowski, wish to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Yes.)]] You're welcome. Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank you for those words, thank you, because they did not come to the Minister... [[They're dead. They're dead.]] ...at the Ministry's address and at the Ministry's co-workers. And I will say with full seriousness and strength: only ignorance can justify the fact that in this process, in connection with the Act of last year and in connection with this law, the staff of the Ministry and the workers who are in the mines and who had to go down to the basements to review dozens of meters of documentation collected there so that we can construct an act that doesn't leave any group... And I think the senator who comes from this industrial, mining environment knows about this scale. That's why he thanked me. And I think that employees and the Mining Department, and employees in individual mines, those words really do belong. But I will also say this: this is not a law that indicates that we have neglected anything in that law. I had the opportunity to present that bill to you. If anyone knows the restructuring process in mining And he started in 1989. And if we know how many mines there were, what suddenly happened that the mining union stopped overseeing them as one entity, and the mines began to function separately... Then the companies were formed, the holding was created, then the Coal Company was formed. This process was so complex that various working regulations, various types of social contracts were created in various mines, resulting also from a certain specificity of the place where these mines were and at the same time were entitled to certain things. In this case, the deputy... they were recorded in different ways. We're trying to compensate for the loss of the power recorded in these documents, and we need to review all the documents that, during the entire period of the mine's liquidation, the merger... After all, there was a trial from the time of Prime Minister Buzek. How many mines were destroyed then and the records archived? Believe me, it was a huge trial. And that's why those who, on the one hand, were involved in determining which persons could be compensated for disclaiming their rights... Because, Mr. Senator, talking about other groups from the Polish People's Republic That's what I'd say. It doesn't necessarily fit. Why? Because this group, which today is indicated by this law, and the group of pensioners, which was included in the previous law, which was last year, are the only groups in Poland that had this right, but they were deprived of this right. Senator, I know what I'm saying. You can nod your head to the right, to the left, across. I know what I'm saying. Therefore, after determining the full set of pensioners in the previous bill... Here we had easier, because we had better documentation available, and in the ZUS, and more organized because these people went to retirement and received this debt in kind or in cash. They were deprived of it. They had no right to speak because no one represented these environments. That is why this law was rightly taken by the Sejm, and by the Senate. I thank the senators very much then and thank you because it was the right decision. And since a larger group of problems had to be sorted out first, we had to sort it out. We have widows, orphans and other groups, the smaller ones for which we had to review the relevant documents to properly save It's in the bill, so that everyone who has the authority and has been deprived of it can benefit from it. We've only added people who didn't have time to file the relevant documents in that process. But there's also a group of people who put together, and the SRK in this big process. 'Cause let's make a deal, ladies and gentlemen, it was over 200 thousand people. She didn't have time to consider it. So let's say that these people in this bill didn't have to bear the costs, because they did it well anyway. And we're closing this issue. We're ordering a matter of something historical to these people. That's why I'm saying it's right... And I would like to thank you very much for what we had at committee meetings for the substantive discussion, for the fact that you share the view that we are ordering certain issues, in this case calling it one-off compensation. And you can't say that there are other groups that we can classify like these people, because these people were taken from what they had, and they were no longer working in the company, in the mines, or they had their spouses who were gone, died. Therefore, I would like to thank you very much for the good climate of discussing this law at committee meetings, because I think there are some projects and problems that connect us in both Chambers. And what's fantastic is that we can see it and that with a lot of effort from people, I'm going to say it again, people in individual mines, in the department, people who made this effort, they went through tens of thousands of documents, because every rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, believe me, it was really a big deal... I want to thank you very much for that. I think the senator was right to say that these people need to be given the right documents so that we can make this bill and submit it to you and thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u131	Minister, wait a minute, because now the senators can report a question to a government representative from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Senator Grabowski came forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u132	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, but first a few words. I remember very well last year's debate, the rush to write this law and to process it, because we cared about time. There was a certain pool of resources, I remember perfectly. And we wanted time to make amends for these people as soon as possible, to give them what they really deserved. Questions were raised concerning the group, actually groups that were not unfortunately covered by this law. I remember the discussion perfectly, and I remember the question I asked you, Minister. You replied that you are committed, we are committed to the fact that in the future, as it turned out, the near future, and where possible these groups will be taken into account. And for that, Minister, thank you very much. Thank you so much for keeping our word because that's the truth. It fell from that speaker from the Minister's mouth, that these groups would be covered, that not then, but in the future. Thank you very much for that. Thank you to the staff of the Ministry and the services under... [[Mr. Senator, question.]] I'm almost done. ...Companies for the preparation of these materials, for the fact that we can make amends in this way. [[You're welcome to speak up.]] And the question is, are we 100% sure that all the groups that were expecting this type of benefit have been taken into account that no one has been left out as regards potential beneficiaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u133	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u134	Thank you. Mr. Senator, when it comes to people who had powers and weren't miners, because that's what we're talking about, this bill closes the whole issue. This bill is kind of closing for us, and it's the second voice, the second leg of the bill last year. We've been preparing it a little longer, although we're only talking about 24,000 people compared to 230,000, because we didn't want to miss out on any group. I will even add that during the interservice work we bowed to the Government Legislative Center for suggestions, for which we also thanked people who could use this right somewhere in interpretation... We put it in the bill... We even took advantage of a suggestion made during the parliamentary work, there was a proposal for an amendment that made it clear to us, and here we did not insist, we thought we could do it without it, but so that there was no doubt that we wanted to close this issue, we introduced it. So that, I think, I can tell you with full responsibility that this process has been closed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u135	Thank you. Are there any further questions for the Minister? I can't hear you. [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] Yes? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u136	Minister, there are, like, two categories of people here. One is the group that had the rights resulting from the old law of that year, and for some reason compensation was not paid to them, and the other is other persons, those who acquired the right under that law. What group of people physically did not receive compensation, and was entitled to it on the basis of the old law? Can you tell?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u137	As I recall, it was about 14,000 people. Several hundred people submitted documents or maybe filed them, supplemented these conclusions, because they are quite simple, and actually qualified for it under the bill, but because it had to be settled by the end of March... Well, the SRK employees didn't make it, they just didn't make it. We thought that if this law had not been in place, we would have paid it out to these people by SRK, by means of SRK, because they were entitled to it by law, and the fact that the financial settlement deadline had ended was not their fault. But we also know that some people started to apply after the law was implemented, they didn't submit their applications on time, so they kind of... There was no mistake on the part of the company, but we thought that if we really wanted this subject That's what Senator Grabowski was asking. If we do not want to narrow it down, and we want to close the subject by introducing all groups into the bill, we will add the possibility that those who later reached the information who later found out that they could submit these proposals, but did not complete it... We've decided to include them in this bill. And that's why we've given such a deadline that there's 90 days to process... We want applications to be submitted from January, then we give ourselves 2 months to process, i.e. rationally more than before. We think that during these two months we should look at this small number of applications compared to the previous project, and in fact the law already states that from 1 June we are making payments. That's why we wrote down these chords so that we could create an opportunity for everyone to submit and deal with applications, because this law, closing the whole issue by ordering it, makes it impossible for us to do some kind of legal act in the future, and to include people who, God forbid, would be late or not to complete something. [[So this bill has, so to speak, such a character associated with justice towards those who...]] That is the intention, Senator, that is the intention. [[...maybe they missed each other in trying to get this...]] That's the intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u138	Are there any further questions? I don't hear any questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Mr Marshal, thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u139	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I thought the matter should be exhausted with questions, but after the Minister's speech, I must extend my arguments. I immediately inform you that the Platform's parliamentary club, having considered this matter, considered that it should be supported. But you, Minister, provoke irresponsible... You're provoking your statements at least to straighten things out and even to some conclusions. My first motion is against Senator Gadawa's motion that you and your employees may be able to do so. But especially to order you. If you've received some kind of reward this year for a very good job, I think you should hand it over, especially to those employees you've compromised. Let me remind you, that bill didn't make a record of the past. You say somebody's clearance has been taken. In a democratic state Remember that, Minister. He doesn't have a clue. If anything, it was done under the law and only by the law. And even if this right seems unfair to many citizens in various cases, there is always an institution of the court that you forget. Your government forgets the courts at all. Before this law came into force, collective agreements were in operation. This previous government did not violate the principle of agreements, collective agreements, which are the sources of law. The miners could appear in different ways in court. And you proved it then. I don't know if it was you. I don't remember. It is necessary to launch an accident act so that the funds are paid even backwards in order to avoid the court and, on this basis, to make flat-rate compensation. The High House took it. And rightfully, that's also the solution. You have proved that the legal costs of this, too, could, say, exceed the investigation of justice. And it was an episode. Today it turns out that this is not an episode act. It's not a barbork bill. It's a Christmas bill. This is the 15th salary for some employees. There's a lie spreading here that the miners in the democratic state that I've been defending here for so many years have no authority. That's rude, I'd say. In fact, mining is the best organized in trade unions, has the most collective agreements and takes the most protest actions in defence of these agreements. And the claim that someone raped any professional group in Poland is really dishonest on your part. This is a simple, disgusting election game. Next thing you know, this bill... It happens in this House. This was the case in previous terms, in other government constellations That the bill is being extended. We have just discussed, in view of the judicial process before the Court of the European Union, the issue of large-area shops. It's happened. And I applied for an extension at the time. That the interns didn't have time to submit their applications because they couldn't collect the documentation. It was objective, but we're not dealing with it here. Last year, your ministry made a choice: or you'll either be loved, wonderful, hardworking miners, sue. And in yours, and in my opinion, they'd probably win. Or take a lump sum. And today you say that they have been harmed, so you have to flatten this lump sum again and add new groups. You're saying permission was taken. Yes, during the breakthrough period, we took... I think you're too young to remember, but that's a compliment. at your address. The Sejm and the Senate of our country have taken many powers, among others. many so-called. harmful additives. We took them from the law to save the economy of the state. And then there was no mention that someone had it in a collective arrangement, and someone didn't, because everyone had it guaranteed in communist collective agreements. We were taking it to save the economy. Today we do not face such a necessity. In fact, you are launching a procedure whereby we would have to return to 1989 and compensate many professional groups for various losses. Many losses could be compensated. That is why I will vote for this, but against you. And I'm asking you to return the money you charged for the wrong bill last year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u140	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative still like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Mr Marshal, I have not tabled any legislative proposals, so I see no reason for the Ministry's representative to speak.]] Senator, a representative of the government can be given the floor at any time he asks. There you go. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal...]] Especially since you're pressing charges... So why don't we give the minister a chance to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I don't want to answer to the senator, I just feel sorry for the senator... I think that's the only way to say it. The seriousness of the House makes it impossible to argue. I think something needs to be corrected very strongly. Retired people have been deprived of... It's just not knowing that makes you sneak around with some words. And I'm saying this... And check the transcripts from last year. Retired persons were not employed; the only group to be retired Unauthorised deputy... And I never said the law was broken. But it was done against social justice. I think that if we want to be a truly democratic state, we must also remember that if it is violated, in the majesty of the law, the right social justice, it must be fixed. And I'm not gonna bid on whether or not the previous government had an opportunity, because that's not the point. I thank the parliamentarians, the senators, for giving these people something that they rightly deserve as part of social justice. And saying that someone's being deprived of someone today, I don't know, makes mistakes... There's nothing to discuss here at all. That's one thing. So do widows, orphans. They are not employed and have not been employed. These are the social groups that had the authority, but because of the fact that the rules were actually made, the collective agreements were declared... But after all, someone owned these companies, just as today is ownership supervision at the Ministry of Energy over mining companies, and someone on behalf of the Ministry spoke to the social side. But how do you, Mr. Senator, say... Then I ask you to pay attention to what happened in the Hawk during previous governments. As for certain terms, when it comes to giving funds, please check for certain things I did not collect, and what I actually received, like other ministers, was sent to the relevant institutions. And I'm gonna say yes. You can bid on whether the minister is good or not... All I'm gonna say is that everyone's good name is to be respected. I don't see any reason to get excited with the right bill... Because we're fixing something, that's what these people deserve. And it's not barbaric at all, it's not for Christmas. It's just a submission so arranged that... we had a bill already in May and June, then it was a vacation. And we put it forward so that we could settle the issue that we discussed in the previous bill as soon as possible. And don't tell me someone made a mistake... All I'm gonna say is, we're fixing what we didn't do as a formation. Thank you for supporting this too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u142	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law on European political parties and European political foundations. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1022, and the Commission's reports in print No 1022-A and No 1022-B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 4 December 2018, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the Law on European political parties and European political foundations. The activities of the parties and foundations themselves are defined by the 2014 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the status and financing of European political parties and foundations. This regulation gives the possibility for national law to regulate other issues, i.e. those which are not related to the appointment of those parties themselves. This proposal regulates the registration and liquidation itself and establishes a contact point. In this respect, this is the implementation of this Regulation. As I said, this law covers these three cases, which is how we are to register such a party or foundation as we are to delete it from a possible register, and establishes a contact point for both of them. This point of contact will be the State Election Commission. At the committee meeting, the Minister informed us that there were question marks about this, i.e. There were two options: either the Ministry of Finance or the State Election Commission. It has been decided that it will be the PKW because it is an independent body and not in the structures of government administration. I must add that the National Election Commission did not very enthusiastically accept this proposal. The senators did not speak in the discussion. There was a proposal to adopt this law without amendment. Unanimously, there were 5 votes in favour It was agreed to. And with the same proposal, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance asks the Senate to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, because this law is basically technical. The committee was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Minister Piebiak. The basic principles of this law, its purpose, have been discussed. In fact, there was no discussion, except for some minor question of Senator Chróścikowski, which concerned whether this law and the functioning of European political parties entails the need for some changes in the electoral ordination. There's been a negative response. There is no need, because there is a completely different area of operation of these parties. An application for adoption of the law has been submitted without amendment. The legislator didn't make any comments. Such a proposal for a law without amendments has been submitted and accepted, and I, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, recommend that this law be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u146	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Łukasz Piebiak, like to speak? I see he's headed for the bleacher. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u147	Shortly, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Indeed, as the Senators of the rapporteur have said here, the purpose of government submission is to comply with the obligation under European Union law, namely Regulation No 1141/2014 of the Parliament and of the Council. It regulates as indicated, technical issues. Because, of course, the regulation also applies in Poland, as in any other Member State of the European Union, it is applied directly, but it does not regulate technical issues such as registration procedure, registration procedure, supervisory authority or national contact point. As the senator mentioned here, it was decided at government level to be the State Election Commission, indeed for precisely such reasons as to be outside the government administration. I'm just gonna add to what the senators have said, because this information hasn't gone down yet, and it raised some questions, but it's no longer in doubt, because I think the bill enjoys everyone's support... There is a regulation which grants the prosecutor-general the right to request that a European political party or European political foundation be removed from the register. But it is only the right to make an application. The Authority shall decide on this. The European political parties and the European political foundations in Brussels, so that they are undertaken at Community level. In addition, it can be said that it is very possible that the scale of possible application of the law will be none, at least in Poland, because the rules are in force, we now have 10 European political parties and related European political foundations, of which 8 are based in Brussels, 1 in France, 1 in the Netherlands, which is generally a policy instrument at European level. In this connection, the activities of these actors, European political parties and political foundations are concentrated in those European capitals where European agendas are based, i.e. the capitals of Western Europe. But of course there are no obstacles, there will be no obstacles, so that in Poland such entities will arise if there is such an initiative. I would also like to point out, what has already been said here, that the government's submission does not in any way bind these entities to the national political scene, to the national elections, that is a completely different sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u148	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I wouldn't have given it up if I hadn't asked. Well, we have two categories of these European political parties. Some are the ones that exist or will exist and are registered whether they have their headquarters outside Poland and the other are those in Poland. The question is, which of these categories is the law, or the first, or the latter, or both? And second question, auxiliary: why are we so late in this bill? Because this regulation entered into force in 2014 and is in 2018. Was there any reason, or was it simply looked at and it was said that here we still have to supplement our right, without external reason?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u150	I'll answer that. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, the law applies to this second category, which has not yet existed, i.e. European political parties and European political foundations, which could be established in Poland. Currently, in the absence of these technical regulations, it is not possible to register such entities in the territory of the Republic of Poland. If anyone makes such an initiative, of course I find it difficult to say. There were no signals to the Ministry of Justice that anyone would be interested in creating such entities. Probably if they were interested. I'm assuming somewhere in the national policy circles. That would also be an appropriate emphasis on the adoption of these provisions. No one, High Izbo, was interested. You should have done it, so we did it. Why is it so late? Of course, I cannot say about the period until late autumn 2015 because then someone else ruled and that question was not for me. And after 2015, after a change of power, the search for a willing government administration to prepare this bill was initially ongoing, because, unfortunately, the law on the departments of government administration clearly does not assign the issue of electoral processes to any of the ministers. Therefore, it must have been decided at some point by the President of the Council of Ministers to entrust this task to one of the ministers. At the time, Prime Minister Beata Szydło entrusted us with this task. We've done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u151	Are there any further questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that after this item is concluded, we will proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1024 and the report of the committee In print No 1024 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, discussing the draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. At the committee meeting, which was very valuable and quite long, but conducted in an extremely substantive way, we proposed a number of amendments, including myself, which received a majority. We therefore present a draft resolution with the amendments in force. And I will allow myself, Mr. Marshal, to make one more amendment, which has not been voted out because of my inattention. I'm putting it from the Senate stand right now. It is important that the words "on 1 January 2019' are replaced by "on 14 days after the date of publication'. I'm leaving this amendment. Now I would like to bring the senators closer to the purpose of the bill. The purpose of the Act is to lay down rules on the care of veterans' graves for freedom and independence, to keep records of graves and to grant special grants and to grant cash benefits to cover the costs of caring for these graves. It concerns those who fought for independence or in defence of independence and the borders of the sovereign Republic, taking part in military battles... And they're gone. It also concerns officials of civil authorities of national uprisings, the administration of the Polish Underground State during the war of 1939 and 1945, members of the authorities and government of the Republic of Poland in exile in the years 1939 and 1990, as well as underground independence civil organizations in the years 1945 and 1956. The provisions of the Act do not apply to war graves within the meaning of the Law of 28 March 1933 on graves and war cemeteries, i.e. graves surrounded by the care of the State, in accordance with this law, not by family graves. Dear Senators, in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland all Members were in favour of this law, but the Association of Warsaw Insurgents asked for an amendment to this law, which I allowed myself to submit. We debated this amendment the longest. The amendment would ensure that the grave of a war hero at the time when the period of payment of the grave ends and there will be no one to pay for it, according to the soldiers and their law firm, and in my opinion, could be eliminated or sold. That's why the amendment I'm going to read... I'm just going to read the first paragraph of the amendment, because it's obviously wider. She reads, "If there is a grave in the cemetery to which the decision referred to in Article has been taken. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, the decision to use the cemetery for another purpose requires the approval of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, hereinafter referred to as the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Of course, the Minister has confirmed to us that this amendment is not necessary, because point 8, it seems, Mr. Minister, the bill speaks of this... and the Minister will certainly say so. I merely report that it was very factual, but it raised our very serious doubts and we did not accept the Minister's argument that the point in this bill, which speaks of grave records, thus secures... During the meeting of the committee, among others, it was raining. such voices that the preparation of records will take a long time. They must be done systematically, year after year. And you can enter a certain number of graves in the records, and in the case of those that are not checked, you might think that they will be sold or disposed of. Of course, the Ministry and representatives of the IPN, who were present, disagreed with our argument. The position of the Warsaw Insurgents' community on the process of this law was also quoted, that it was first a legislative initiative, then a government initiative. This was not the subject of a longer debate, but, of course, it is in the minutes of our committee's meeting what was the legislative path. Either way, the goal of both sides is that the care of the graves of our war veterans, over the graves of our heroes, should be permanent and permanent. That's it. Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister or his service, because I have been in Parliament for a very long time... Just make a phone call to my office and say that for important reasons I understand, Minister, you'll come at another time. Because what time I'm going to report is not my personal business, because we're being watched right now by the Home Army soldiers who were waiting for this... Okay? Let's make a deal this way. [[Mr. Senator, follow the report from the committee meeting.]] Thank you. From now on, I'm gonna hang in there. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u153	Is the senator finished? [[Yes, I said thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Ryszka came forward with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, please either get me out of the way or confirm... The grave that will be in the catalogue, in the records under the custody of the IPN... Can a grave like this ever be destroyed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u155	It can't be. But it would have to be written in the bill, and it isn't. We have made an amendment and if this amendment passes, it will certainly not be possible. But, Mr. Chairman... [[It seems to me that it can never be liquidated again, possibly being transferred with the consent of the President of the IPN.]] Yeah, but it's not in the bill. For now, Mr. Minister, who... [[No, no, I'm...]] He'll tell you why he's not afraid of this situation, that I don't have a bill before me, but the Minister will give you a very precise answer to that question. I'm not a lawyer, but logically... I have introduced this amendment, of course, with the help of lawyers, because I thought that these points in the bill did not safeguard, as regards the concern which Mr President is gracious to convey. [[I think they're securing it, but we'll ask the minister. Good.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u156	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u157	Mr. Senator, if the grave is entered in the records, it is subject to the legal care of the State under this law. Yes? [[Yes.]] If it's not entered, it's not subject. So here's the key question: how was it... Was there a question at the committee meeting about how long it would take to record the graves? Because theoretically it can be so, and there can be many such cases that the payment period of the so-called. There will be no family left to look after the grave, and the grave will not be in the records. And what about this grave? There's gonna be a note saying it's to be decommissioned, and it's gonna be decommissioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u158	Coming, Mr. Senator, in your line of reasoning, we made this amendment. The registration process will continue Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong. A few years, or you don't know how many. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: No, no, I will explain...]] The Minister will explain it. But fearing such a situation and following this line of reasoning, we made this amendment. If the Minister makes it right, then, I believe, we can reach agreement on this, but we are concerned that during the process of registering these graves, which will continue because... I don't remember how many graves were to be recorded every year, it seems that the bill doesn't say that. [[$200,000, that would be $200,000.]] About 200,000. [[That's for starters.]] In a word... Please repeat this question to the Minister. In my opinion, these graves can be destroyed, and that's where our amendment is. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal is kind enough to conduct the deliberations. [[Yes, I'm listening, sir.]] I'm done. [[Voice from the room: One more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u160	Senator, tell me what is the ratio legis of Amendment 15, which you have proposed and which deletes from the Act Article. 18. Art. The Institute creates records of graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. He's, like, an executive transition article to material regulations. First, you give the institute the right to create records, and at the very end, there is no, so to speak, seal that such records are to be created. What's with the amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u161	Wait a minute, I can't see where this is, Senator. [[This is printing 1024 A, last page, amendment 15: Article is deleted. 18. Last page.]] Correction... [[...we're already at the same level... the article is deleted. 18.]] I know, but I don't have a bill in front of me... [[It's not my fault.]] ...so I don't know what the content of the article is. This is an amendment that... [[I'll quote that to you.]] ...brought in our Legislature Bureau and we followed that lead. I'll be right with you. I'm afraid I won't be able to answer you precisely... [[Okay, we'll ask the minister.]] ...to that question. I'm so sorry, but I don't see this article in front of me. Mr. Marshal, I'm done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u162	Mr. Senator... [[No more questions. Thank you very much.]] [[Senator, one more question.]] Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u163	Report, third party, Amendment 12. [[Third page...]] Third page of the report, Amendment 12 to Article. 9. There, the natural person was removed, and there remained only family members and individuals indicated by the family... What was the intention of this amendment? Did someone explain that at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u164	Yeah, it was translated. This was an amendment proposed by our Legislative Office. Without being a lawyer, I don't recall exactly why such content. I may not be able to answer that question. I'm gonna try asking counsel because... well, I can say I don't know the answer to that question. Counselor, may I? Oh, I can't right now. [[Not now, later.]] Okay, okay. [[Maybe I'll see what I mean.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u166	There are graves that I know of that are cared for by people who do not belong to the family, nor have they been entitled by the family, because they could not, but still care for these graves. That means they won't be able to take the money under the bill. [[They might get the money.]] Can they get it? [[They have to show they're taking care of each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u167	Do you have any more questions for the senator? No. I think that's all the questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, of course, am Deputy Minister Dworczyk. Paweł Szrot, my name is Paweł Szrot. I'd like to start by apologizing to Senator Fedorovich. I was convinced that our Department of Parliamentary Affairs informed you, as rapporteur and chairman of the committee, of... [[Thank you.]] The delay was objective. I had a point in the Sejm today, I had a meeting of the Committee of the Permanent Council of Ministers. Please accept these explanations. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to refer here to the content and idea of the law. I think it should be obvious to all of us. I would just like to quote the preamble: "On the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, paying tribute to the past generations, which in their attitude and struggle for an independent and sovereign Homeland have contributed greatly to the liberation of the Polish people, having regard to the worthy preservation in the national memory of the consecration of these generations, the following is decided. What's going on? In short, there is a system of caring for heroes' graves, over the graves of those who fought with weapons in hand for Poland's independence or held political leadership over this armed struggle. This system is created through 2 instruments. The first is, as the rapporteur has already said, the record that will be kept by the Institute of National Remembrance, the second instrument is the provision of money, which can be granted to individuals who care for graves as well as to social organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act sets the upper limit of the annual execution, in the financial sense, for PLN 5 million 275 thousand. And now I'm going to the point of what we're considering today, which is the amendments that have been made to the bill. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, three groups of amendments have been submitted to the bill. One is the amendment of the Legislative Bureau, the other is the amendments that Senator Jan Rulewski presented, the third is the amendment that Senator Fedorowicz spoke about, with consequences, i.e. the introduction of the authority for the president of the Institute, with an absolute ban on the liquidation of the graves... Mr Marshal, High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I will say this: I do not recommend adopting amendments, any of these amendments, any of these groups. Why? I'll explain it to you now. As regards the legislative amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, I very much appreciate the Senate Legislative Office They're really great professionals, they've often helped us, they're very knowledgeable about the legislative process. But these amendments, which have been proposed, are not of such a fundamental nature and do not demonstrate the legal and legislative shortcomings of the law, so that it is worth stopping it from running and turning it back to the Sejm. And I would like to stress one thing: we very much want this law, this system I was talking about, the care of the graves, to start on 1 January. The Institute of National Remembrance is also prepared for this. The two amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office are substantive, strictly substantive. This is to exclude the application of the Code of Administrative Procedure and to convert the method of granting a monetary benefit from a civil contract to an administrative decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to this too. These proposals are of a substantive nature, but these... The records I was talking about, i.e. disabling the application of the regulations of K.P.A. And the introduction of a civil law agreement is a loan directly from the law on war graves. In that law, the system was to introduce as much simplification and speed up procedures as possible, and under that law the system works well. All institutions involved in its implementation have good experience on this basis. We would like to adapt this system with a view to this new group of graves, for which care is provided under the provisions of the Law under review today. So much for the proposals for the Legislative Bureau's amendments. Now the amendments you presented to Senator Jan Rulewski. Here, I'd like to say in advance. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. I'm very interested in one of them. and I can declare that it requires further consideration, very serious consideration, although not on the basis of this submission, which we are proceeding today, because it would even be defective. Because what you're proposing, Senator Rulewski, is far beyond the scope of the original submission. Although this is a very interesting proposal, for which I would like to thank the senator. It is about introducing an instrument that would be precisely marking each grave, i.e. already physical installations, an emblem indicating that this is about a veteran's grave of battles or veterans. And that's why... In this respect, this proposal goes beyond the original proposal. But in my opinion, Senator, this proposal deserves a very serious consideration. We'll take a look at her. However, I stress that this will require a horizontal amendment not only of this law, but also of the law on war graves, about combatants. It must be a comprehensive and cross-cutting proposal. Mr. Senator, your other proposals for amendments are either to forgive me or to extend procedures and make it more difficult to grant benefits and to enter war veterans' graves in the records, or to limit the scope of the case, for example. people who have... I think this is about the senator's questions. As it turns out, as far as I'm concerned, the switch between a natural person and a member of the family... That, I believe, was in your group of amendments. I also cannot support them and recommend the High House. As for the fundamental issue that you raised, the senator... Excuse me... [[Voice from the hall: Fedorowicz.]] Senator Fedorovich. So it was about entering an IPN right to ban the liquidation of veterans' graves. Mr. Senator said I'd explain it precisely. And that's where I'm going with it. The law, the draft of which is submitted by the government, introduces a security against the liquidation of the tombs of the Veterans fighting for independence, and this introduces a security in two different, albeit complementary ways. Firstly, when we are talking about payment of a cemetery fee, the law provides, both in the article. 8, as well as in Article. 9 that the cash benefit provided for by its provisions may be used to finance or co-finance grave care tasks, in particular to cover the necessary expenditure for construction, renovation, etc. or the maintenance of these graves. So if you... I'm starting with this less fundamental issue. If there is any problem here, both the natural person and the organizational unit, including the organization that attended your committee's meeting, Senator, will be able to apply for a benefit directly intended to cover the cemetery fee. The second way in which the law protects the graves against liquidation is this record. The Institute of National Remembrance will create records of veterans' graves fighting for freedom and independence. And here I answer the senator's question. On the basis of the declaration of the Institute of National Remembrance, I will say that this so-called. The core of records will certainly be created very quickly, well, maybe not very, but relatively quickly. However, one thing needs to be underlined. Well, this base, this record will actually be completed all the time. They will be added to it new, discovered, indicated by the justification of the grave and will, of course, be supplemented. But as far as this base is concerned, I don't expect there to be much delay here. Really, in the first year of this law, this base, even many hundred thousandths, can be prepared, I do not see a major problem here. But I'm going back to the issue of protection against liquidation. Well, this record is being made, and it will be written and specified. However, in connection with this record, the provisions of the Law of 31 January 1959 on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead remain. And this bill provides for general protection of such graves. I'd like to quote, Mr. Senator, art. Paragraph 7 5, which indicates: independently of the above provisions, use for burial of graves which are of historical value (due to their past or persons who are buried in them, or events with which they are connected) is prohibited. So this rule will be applied, which is obvious to me, in connection with this record that our law provides for. And I can't imagine any cemetery administrator having any doubts about whether a grave inscribed in the records is a grave of historical value because of the person buried in it. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I am at your disposal when it comes to answering questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I did not receive such precise answers at the committee meeting, which would dispel my doubts, even though it seems to me, with great concern we were discussing the graves of veterans. We were all wondering why the proposal was not included in the process of fewer and fewer insurgents in Warsaw. This environment is pitied because the law does not provide protection, even though it has already been sort of defined, and for various reasons it may come to the fact that in connection with the failure to pay it, we also talked about it. The so-called "Supervisory" of the so-called "Supervisory" or "Supervisory" or "Supervisory" or "Supervisory" or "Supervisory" or "Supervisory." The grave of a national hero will be destroyed after 20 years. What could be the reason? Well, for example, there is no longer any family of such a man that cemeteries remain under the jurisdiction of various churches, communities. It is enough that this cemetery will be handled by a man who is not sensitive to certain matters, and it may come to that. And my questions are yes. First: why were the demands of the insurgents not taken into account? Two: Why is such haste accompanied by such a procession? Why the Act must enter on 1 January, since the legislators themselves admit that the creation of the so-called. A grave register can last for years? Please dispel my doubts. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, do you want me to respond?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u171	Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u172	Senator! Let me refer to your second question, the so-called. Hurry up. I prefer to define efficient and immediate proceding, Senator. I'm tied up here... I fully respect, respect and understand the declarations of the Prime Minister from the summer he announced the creation of this system. We just want the system to start functioning with a new year. The IPN is prepared for this. Senator, as far as your first question is concerned, I'm going to say that in my deepest conviction... I would like to stress very much that I am the last person to ignore the veterans' environment, including the Warsaw insurgents. Hello and glory to these heroes, eternal respect. Let the memory of their accomplishments continue. This bill is a tribute to them and their colleagues who are already dead, who lie in the cemeteries of Warsaw and other towns and whose graves should be protected. I will say again, Senator: our submission, our bill provides all the instruments for the protection of the graves for which the combatant environments have been requested. I understand there may be some legal misunderstanding here. Let's call it a legal discussion. I present one position and justify it. We have also heard the position of the authors of the amendment. I am obliged to ask the senators to accept the provisions of the government's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to get on the subject that my predecessor brought up. Here I am, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I see you now.]] Thank you. I like to look into the eyes. I'd like to take a little bit of this and I'd like to ask you to answer me, to explain or to get me out of the way if I got the wrong message. I was told that this type of law as a project was submitted to the Sejm by the insurgent environment, the environment of our heroes. Be in the form of a petition, be in the form of a bill... In a way, it was accepted by the Sejm. True, without a date, but it was accepted and not rejected. And suddenly there was a government bill on the same subject. Therefore, the matter of the law proposed by the veterans was not taken into account at all, was not considered, no one even wanted to use or discuss the proposals contained in this law. More, the government law has been passed without public consultation. That's what the insurgents say. They say there was no such consultation. It seems to me that this is such a deserving and dying environment that it should have our special consideration in every matter. They must be dealt with, their voice taken into account, etc. Right now, in the context of what the government bill says, without considering the laws of our veterans at all... They ask to take into account the most important point for them, namely the point about the full guarantee of the preservation of graves which will not be re-sold or Sorry for the very ugly word. Used after 20 years. They argue that the families who took care of them are long gone, people have left, they are dead. etc. And there's no one to do it. My question, Minister, is: why is there such stubbornness in the drafters of the government law that this point should not be taken into account? After all, this point does not force any costs, nor does it expose the Polish state to any great expenses. It is a great gesture to the insurgents to give them this guarantee that the graves of the heroes will certainly be preserved so that they can leave this world peacefully. In addition, they have a proposal to make a decision on the preservation or not of such a grave by the President of the IPN. Well, then answer me, that'll be the second question in this context... Let me remind you that the first was: why were the proposals of the environmental law not accepted at all and taken into account? And the second question is, why can't you trust the President of the IPN if the insurgents have so much confidence in him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u175	Mr. Marshal, with your permission... [[You're welcome.]] I'd like to answer Senator Boris-Damięcka's question. As far as the committee is concerned, because it is not a social project, it was presented in the Sejm by a petition committee, if I remember correctly... [[Yes.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: In the form of a petition.]] Yes. This proposal was not considered in parallel with the government submission solely because of the absence of the rapporteur's meeting. It was Mr Friday of the Civic Platform. Well, of course, this project went to the committee and we analyzed it. And one thing I'd like to say to you, Senator. Very bright. Commission project - how to describe it It has a much narrower scope than the government's submission, it does not provide for the provision of money. That's the basic difference. Of course, we respect the draft committee and the postulates of the Veteran community, but we are simply convinced that in this respect our proposal goes further, introduces more specific instruments of support, is simply better, with all due respect for what the petition committee has prepared. Moreover, after our analysis, the basic conclusion was that the provisions of both laws could not be incorporated and harmonised. Well, we just learned these legal conclusions after reading the committee project. Dear Senator, as regards the powers of the Institute of National Remembrance, I would remind you that the amendment that Mr Fedorowicz presented also creates only powers of some degree of arbitrariness for the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Our project indicates that the president of the Institute of National Remembrance will create records. So, in fact, in our project, the final decision on the legal protection of the graves of war veterans will be on the side of this institution, i.e. the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Can I add up, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u176	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u177	Minister, I'm very sorry, but this is embarrassing if you use the phrase: our project is simply better. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] That's not an explanation. Since the state had submitted a project without considering the design of the insurgent environments at all, it was at least possible to discuss with them, to talk with them, and to consider some proposals and discuss them, to do some joint project. It's not a shame to do a joint government and combatant project. That's one thing. And secondly, I do not agree with your statement, it is not true that the Institute of National Remembrance will look after it anyway. You know very well that there are many institutions in local governments And so it was said to Mrs. Panczyk-Podziej that various offices have certain powers to make decisions at local government level, etc., and here the insurgents are concerned that special graves, those which are not covered by any care, where there are no heirs of these insurgents, entrust to the Institute of National Remembrance, which has all the documentation about a given national hero, has all his details, maybe at meetings of his colleges this matter is discussed and the President may decide. It is the difference whether the decision is taken by the president of the IPN or by the council of the local government. This is the fundamental difference in the case of such a veteran, because it is a piece of history and struggle of a given man for Polishness and for Poland. I find it embarrassing that you and your combatant environments were unable to come to an agreement and try to talk to them. Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal, with permission... Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u179	I'm answering a supplementary question from the senator. Senator, forgive me, but I have such a vague impression that you are trying to build antagonism in this matter between us a little artificial. There's really no significant conflict between us here in terms of defense, the protection of veterans' graves fighting for independence... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damian: Discussion is always possible.]] Of course the discussion is possible and often brings... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: You are not the only one to discuss.]] ...value added to our knowledge, to our experience, so thank you, Senator, for those voices as well. However, I repeat: I spoke with the veteran community at the Parliamentary Committee meetings, also at the Senate Committee meeting. We have come to a full consensus on certain matters. In the case of others, we've stayed at our posts, I'm not hiding it. I respect this environment very much and I stress that our project is above all... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Best.]] Senator, you're interrupting me. Don't interrupt me, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I am not interrupting, I am interfering.]] I believe that our project is the answer to all their demands, and it is, I do not hide, better than the committee's submission. I'm not going to hide it here, because sometimes it's just enough to compare two drafts of legislation to draw such conclusions. Senator, please accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u181	Thank you. Minister... I'm here, this is me, Minister. I have limited confidence in the IPN, especially after the decisions of the court to withdraw the change of street names, the decounization which recently took place in Warsaw, in the case of almost all streets, because 44. In many other cities, these decisions have also been withdrawn. It turned out that the IPN was wrong and the decisions of the court are final. And my question is this: if the IPN refuses to enter the grave into the grave records, where will it be possible to appeal? Because I understand that when it comes to war graves, it's obvious. Yeah, but the graves of heroes, veterans fighting for freedom and independence... Well, of course the IPN might have some comments here. If there's a request for entry and he doesn't want to do it, where can we appeal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u182	With your permission, Mr. Marshal... I'm sorry I'm not looking at your senators right now, but I'm used to taking notes to avoid mistakes, a name from the light board. So if you'll excuse me for a few seconds of delay in directing you and your eyes. Senator Florek just a second ago put the thesis that giving one of the streets of Warsaw the name Danuta Sidzikówny was wrong and wrong. Do I understand the senator correctly? [[The court decides, not the IPN. You're questioning the court's decision.]] Mr. Senator, I have the right to disagree with the court's decision and I have the right to say that the Inka deserves every honour that both the IPN and the local governments decide to acknowledge. Mr. Senator, if the senator doesn't understand this, if the court doesn't understand it, then I'm gonna go with the court, and I'm gonna let the senator go deep and fundamentally against it. And now the essential part of your question, which is the appeal. Although the Act, our extension excludes the application of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, but because of the full understanding of these situations which you mentioned and pointed out, it confers an appeal procedure on the Court of Justice, it can be said that in quotes to the College of the Institute. And everyone interested, each applicant will have the right to consider in two, you can say colloquially, instances of their application. Please accept these explanations, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u184	Minister, a question about grave marking. Do you think it's art? Could 8 laws be the basis for asking for money to mark graves? With us in Wielkopolska different environments, mainly the Society of the Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising, such graves mark. And reading this article. 8, the last part of it, I would conclude that it would be possible without any additional amendments to the bill or amendments with such requests. Do you agree with me? Because as soon as the bill comes into force, we're gonna rewrite it because we're gonna apply for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u185	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I'm revisiting the article. 8, Art. Eight and nine, of course, because they have to be read complementaryly... Mr. Senator, I'm referring to this as a matter of fact... and I think there might be a problem with that. Here we are talking about the costs associated with the care of these graves. Extra designation... I'm not 100%. Sure, to be honest. But I would stress that this is a very interesting proposal that needs serious consideration. Except there's one more thing. Such a designation should, in my opinion, be granted not only to tombs of the categories of graves defined by this law, but also to all other war tombs, the tombs of veterans who are not veterans fighting for freedom and independence. We understand each other. So here is the need for comprehensive and cross-cutting regulation. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. To a certain extent, I discussed this at the committee meeting with Senator Rulewski. This type of marking should be mounted or established... well, with full respect for the appearance, aesthetics of the grave, and this is the responsibility of the family or sometimes even the person who was buried in it, who had some clues about the place of her burial before she died or in her last will. So it would be necessary to define this subtle boundary between the aesthetic of the tombstone and the marking. Maybe it shouldn't be like Senator Rulewski's suggesting that there's a plaque on the headstone itself. I'm talking hot. I'm talking hot. I'm talking hot. There's a plaque on the post right next to the tombstone... But this discussion is just opening, and I suggest you all take part in it, follow it, all the issues are open here. Mr. Senator, please accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u186	Thank you very much. Senator Hare... You don't have a senator. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, the first question is repeated: do you think that the amendment which deletes the article. 18, it is correct, whether it should be omitted and it will be safer just this article. 18 concerning the creation of records by the Institute leave? That's the first line. And the other is more financial in nature. Question one: why is there an 80% cut in subsidies? Is this some level, I don't know, like. from the Public Finance Act, or was it introduced into this law? Perhaps there will be associations who would be willing to deal with this procedure. Foundations, other organisations, churches But when they're financed by all of these investments. That's one thing. Secondly, what is the nature of the benefit? Because if it's a matter of keeping the grave, then it's an ongoing activity, then it's done on an ongoing basis. Is this witness just for the day-to-day maintenance of the graves? Then it would have to be in a way periodic rather than one-off. But it's to be explained. And one last thing, I think it's the most important thing. That is, most of these applications and entries in the records and requests related to the care itself will certainly be at the beginning of the act of this law... [[Secretary at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes, yes, I understand.]] ...in years, let's assume, 2019, 2020, 2021. The amounts that are being allocated here are relatively small. The IPN itself will certainly need a lot of money because it has two tasks: one is to split funds for grants and benefits, and the other is to create records, hire new people. Well, it costs a little, it doesn't do the same. I'm not talking about the computer program anymore. So the question is: will this money intended, as I understand it, for the IPN in particular during this initial period be sufficient? Isn't that just gonna clog up for financial reasons?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u188	I see. Mr. Marshal, with your permission... I'm already answering Senator Czerwinski's questions. I've always appreciated the merits and detail of the senator's questions. They are often a big challenge for me, but here I am able to explain it completely. As regards the deletion of the Article. 18, this is an amendment from the Group of Proposals of the Senate Legislative Office, which I have already questioned. And why did I question that? Well, there was a legal dispute between us. I believe that this provision is necessary and justified under the transitional provisions. And I would ask the High House to keep it. In terms of proportions and 80% Co-financing, I'd just like to... I, I believe, have already filed a bill in the High House to amend the Public-Private Partnership Act. And that's where we were changing the ratio of the Fifty-Fifty... Sorry, he shouldn't use foreign words in the High House. [[Fifty-fifty.]] We changed it 50-50 to 80.20. This was due, as in the case of this law, to the experience of carrying out such projects with social organisations. The ratio of 50:50 meant very often large implementation problems in various such projects, while 20% was generally the amount that such organisations could secure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u189	If you don't mind, Minister... I'll take your word for it. But it's not that... I don't want it to be 50:50, on the contrary, it's 100:0, i.e. in the sense that, in some cases, this would apply to the whole of the measures, because there might be a need for refunds... And that's not an option here because it's up to 80%. If this article hadn't been written there at all, it would have been clear that if it wasn't necessary... But maybe sometimes, in some cases, you have to give a refund... sorry, a 100% grant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u190	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna keep an eye on your question. Such an instrument, i.e. overall financing, is used in the case of natural persons. We assumed that the social organisation should, however, show some commitment As... well, this is an institution, this is a corporation, you can say, in the sense of public law, so we're counting on a 20% contribution from them here. One last question about the amount. Mr. Senator, this amount... Let me remind you that this is only the upper limit of funding, it may be less, especially in the following years, because at the beginning, I assume, it will be used mostly. This respect was made on the basis of data presented by the Institute of National Remembrance. They are prepared to implement this law with amounts at this level. I think that should explain it to you, Senator. [[Will these benefits be periodic or one-off? After that answer, I'll be satisfied.]] In fact, I'm sorry, I forgot about that element. Mr Senator, our intention during the design of this project was as general as possible to expand the maximum scope and subjective, i.e. I imagine that benefits will be both cyclical and one-off. I'm also reminding everyone who has any doubts. about our law that also the cemetery fee can be covered with these benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u191	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal, but Senator Czerwiński asked my questions, and the Minister answered them. Thank you.]] In that case, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u192	Thank you very much. Minister, this law concerns the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, but not only located in cemeteries, because there are many places commemorating the death of such people. and in the country, and abroad In an honest field. There are different locations. Sometimes these are the places where these people died. Who will coordinate these actions in such a situation? 'Cause so far, dealing with these graves, the graves haven't been subsidised. That's why they were in different states. And now it's possible to raise funds. It was often run by associations or individuals. With a particular accent I am talking about those graves that are located outside Poland. What will be the main institution to which you can apply? Because the Committee for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had previously been addressed. Especially difficult are these situations beyond the eastern border, especially if there is to be a cross at the memorial site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u193	Senator, I understand that this mainly concerns burial sites outside our borders, although you can also imagine such lonely graves in the country. Of course, the law does not differentiate whether it is a cemetery or a grave situated elsewhere. The powers of social organisations or individuals will be the same. In the case of graves located outside the Republic of Poland, entry in this register will be made at the request of the Consul of the Republic of Poland or from the office. The National Remembrance Institute will also be able to... [[And this is written here?]] Yes, it's very precise in the article. 3 (1) (a) 4. [[Thank you very much.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u194	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u195	Thank you very much. Here I am, Minister. I come from the territory of the former Koszalin Voivodeship, and there, as you know, the Soviet troops have been stationed for the longest time. The Soviets came in early and killed us. There are, therefore, various graves that are already forgotten. There were only a few witnesses left, but these witnesses gave us information about these murders. This applies e.g. heads of schools who stood up for the students the Soviets wanted out of school. Some of those graves in these cemeteries are there. I turned to our government and fortunately But it was only after 10 years that 2 such graves were protected. Tell me, does this law include graves like this? I'll remind you, it was after 1945. What about the graves?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u196	Senator, you have touched on an important and difficult subject of this bill. When designing its records, we had to set such a clear, clear boundary, which is the grave of a veteran fighting for the independence of the Republic, and what is not, and we adopted such a basic assumption. Mrs. Senator, the veteran is a person who, with a gun in his hand, fought for the freedom or borders of the Republic of Poland or who held political direction over this armed struggle, just like the authorities of the Polish Underground State or the Government Delegation to the country. You can also indicate e.g. National government at the time of the January Uprising or other insurgent governments. Mrs. Senator, if these people were members of the National Army or other formations that fought against the Soviet occupation after the war, then of course these tombstones will be covered by the privileges of this law. [[Can I ask you one more question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u197	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u198	You know, Minister, I'm talking about a woman who was raped and killed or a school principal. Now it's hard to know if they were members of one or another group. There are also graves of people whose plane was dropped, also by Soviet troops. I'm sure it was an officer of the Polish Army. Is that why they're... Because, as I say, it's hard to determine after 1945. Minister, you're not gonna set that up right away. These families are gone, too. What about them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u199	Senator, I am convinced that if these people were indeed members of underground armed organizations, the IPN has the right knowledge and tools to determine this. I would like to remind you of one thing. The Act is the title of the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence. Let me stress: fights. As far as victims of others are concerned, their tombstones, of course, deserve respect and protection, but under other laws. Please understand me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u200	Are there any more questions? Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u201	I just, Minister, would like to clarify a point. If I heard wrong, of course it's okay. You said that, when the bill was dealt with in the Sejm, the rapporteur, Mr Pięta of the Platform, was not present. In the meantime, I wanted to determine if there was a Friday on the Platform, but it turns out it wasn't. It was a PiS envoy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u202	No. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podzierz: How?]] Part of it is my mistake, which I confess and for which I apologize. It was, I believe, a Member of the Infantry, not a Friday. Infantry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And he didn't show up. As far as I know, Mr Piechota has a similar life problem as Mr Libicki, so you can possibly understand his absence and... [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podziej: It is good that we have explained this.]] ...doesn't belong to him any great pretensions... [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej: Because we know the Fifth from some completely different circumstances.]] ...though this has complicated the legislative path. Sorry about the mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u203	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for the comprehensive answers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can start anyway, a fragment of Maria Konopnicka's poem: You are our graves, our own graves, You life is full of graves! You are not the altar of vain mourning, But they claim strength. Yes, the Polish cemeteries on which our heroes rest are not only a source of concern for their loved ones, not only a memory, but certainly not a cry for revenge and revenge. For me, they were sometimes, like those graves of Warsaw insurgents, a cry for continuation of fights, like those graves of innocently shot and rehabilitated pilots, to show this truth, as it was possible that the Pole sentenced Pole to death and what he was running from England to rebuild free Poland. And there are graveyards like in Katyn that tell what the crime of genocide is. Therefore, it is good that the government presented a proposal to give the Polish graves, the Polish cemeteries the name of the national good, which should be protected. not only that they worship those who died in defence of independence, were beaten and sent down, executed, but also that they were a source of historical knowledge, such as the graves of the insurgents of Warsaw, which strongly convince all attackers that the fight for independence in Poland does not exist and will be fought even if the price is unimaginable. And in that belief... My colleagues and I are in favour of this bill coming into force, but for it to be a good bill. You've noticed, Mr. Minister, I think the Senators of the PO have also noticed this. That we made a good contribution there. That's what you're talking about. I won't take any more compliments because some people think I signed up for the government, and I'm far from any government. [[But you can support it.]] I can support you. We show that we are not a total opposition, and certainly not in this dimension. We are proposing amendments and we do not agree, Minister, because you did not convince us at the committee meeting and you have not convinced us now Senator Paniczyk-Podziej, and I listened... Why is this deadline on 1 January so sacred, since the implementation is spread out, as is said in the explanatory statement, for years, when good proposals are being made You mentioned one of them. If you can make this law even more useful, so that the cemeteries can agree? We make different amendments, I personally make a few. I think they're of a substantive nature. One. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act, it is true that the funds for the renovation and maintenance of graves are scarce. That's only five million a year, one million of which will be at the administration. It's easy to calculate that every year, assuming the average given by the ministry, which is 70,000, we'll be able to renovate the graves... They're almost from the bar confederation there. Seventy thousand a month minus the cost of living. So after 40 years, we're going to do the work that's set up in the bill. That'll be 100,000... 200,000 graves. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Almost.]] [[Voice from the room: 200,000.]] $200,000. That is what is stated in the explanatory memorandum. My first and fundamental amendment is to strengthen noble intentions with a grave mark, a badge, so modest. That would cost about 50 zlotys. This is not only about veterans' graves, but also about all veterans, even those who, within the meaning of the anti-communist opposition law and those persecuted, were meant to regain independence. I'm going to compromise, Minister. It is true that this needs to be refined so that it is a worthy sign placed in a decent place and that it is as budgetary as possible. I believe it may even be a sign chosen by way of a competition. I believe that it is not possible for this to happen from January 1st or even March 1st, which is why I propose that the bill be implemented after six months. During this time, various preparatory work can be carried out and may even revise the bill if necessary. In the shape in which I put it, I think it might apply. The next case is substantive. It was misunderstood by the Minister, but I wasn't really there, so I don't blame myself. It states that in cases of dispute concerning registration, reference can be made to the college. The decision of the President of the IPN may be appealed to the College. It's right that there's a cancellation route, but it's wrong that it was built like this. The College of IPN shall be the opinion body of the President and shall not dissuade the decision of the President. My amendment says that in the case of disputes Only the disputed, Minister, not all A person who considers himself to be harmed or otherwise affected will be able to request a review of the case to the President who will consider it after consulting the IPN. The next amendment grants rights... Because abroad and in Poland these rights I think there's been a discussion here. They're different. Namely abroad the right to apply for registration is granted only to the consul. I say it should be the same laws as they are in the country. It can also be a natural person, especially a family member. There are situations... I guess in all the laws of the world it's decided that this family has, so to speak, the first title in the funeral, in respect. There may be disputes about this, issues of dispute, so it is the family member or the person to whom he entrusts custody that should be honoured in this law. Next case. I don't insist, I accept your translation of whether or not to apply the Civil Procedure Code... The Legislator has shown that this procedure may not only be about registration, but also on many other matters, for example on the contract, Minister, relating to the fact that social organisations that look after graves will spend public funds. For this reason, there may be a number of problems with regard to contracts which can generally be challenged or challenged only under civil law through civil proceedings. After all, it's gonna be a decision... Even the decision of the President of the IPN to enter is an administrative decision. Polish law gives the opportunity to appeal against it. And in the end, I'm going back to the beginning. It's a preamble. I do not underestimate its importance and the need to apply it, but I believe that the inclusion here of a commitment to the care of graves translated by the celebrations of the century of independence... I consider this to be too short a justification, and that's why I'm proposing a record here. I saw him at the graveyards. From which I began my speech, the beautiful words of Maria Konopnicka: Our graves, our mother graves, etc. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm glad the bill went to the Sejm and the Senate. Indeed, the Polish state is guilty of caring for its heroes even after death, i.e. taking care of their graves. It should be regrettable that it is so late, but better late than never. However, I have the impression that the bill was written in quite a hurry, so, as my previous speakers and in the questions, and in the speeches they spoke, there are some inconsistencies in it, an understatement which may in the future prove to be either a bone of discord, or a difficult element of this law to implement. I would like to refer to our discussion at the committee meeting. Well, I asked the Minister whether, in the context of the provisions of this law, for example. Paderewski's grave or Leon Janty-Połczyński's grave would be under such protection. The Minister was... I was suggesting that this bill didn't make any sense. And I'm so sorry, but I was wrong. In my opinion, this law shows that these graves would be cared for. All I can say for my reasons is that the Minister has confirmed that, for example, Paderewski's grave wouldn't be taken care of. Let me quote this passage from which I conclude that these graves of care would be subject. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 (2) 1 speaking of what graves are veterans' graves, point 1 states, among other things, that he walks through graves taking part in wars, armed activities and independence. Undoubtedly, Paderewski, Dmowski or Leon Janta-Połczyński participated in such activities. As long as I'm calm about those first two names, Leon Janta-Połczynski... If you could see his grave, then... Indeed, it seems that we should act on this matter. And that's one thing I'd like to say. The second point is the issue of Amendment 12, which has already been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, where there is money, there can always be problems. If we want to fund the care of graves, that is, to put it directly, give money for it, then there is a fear that 2 or 3 people will show up recognising that they are the ones who are taking care of the grave and that they should get the money. Therefore, we believe that family should first have the right to do so. Remember, there are not only 1 - person graves. There are two-person graves, there are even chapels where the whole family is buried, including the person we would like to take care of after death. And I can't imagine people who aren't related to their families interfering in these gravestones. This opportunity should be given first to the family, and only later, if there is no one willing from the family, then it could possibly be other people. Nor is it entirely clear what will happen if we consider that the person who declared his willingness to help has taken the means to do so does not look after the grave properly. Will she then, so to speak, be withdrawn from the function of this contractual grave keeper and be able to appoint another person, or will it be so unspeakable and unfinished to the end? I think it's such a guarantee... that this should be checked. That if the person who declares his desire to care for the grave will not do so, then it will be possible to cancel and appoint another person. Random accidents can happen: someone gets sick, even dies. Then another person may be appointed to continue to care for the grave. That's it. And let me stress once again that I am very pleased that such a bill has been made.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u207	Thank you very much. Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For years I have been dealing with matters related to cemeteries and the care of graves of fallen heroes, because of the various functions that I performed mostly in the local government. We've renovated hundreds of graves. And what's always been the biggest problem is those graves that weren't part of the war cemeteries. Therefore, when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said publicly this year on the anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising that there would be legal changes concerning the care of these graves outside the structure of war cemeteries, we accepted it with joy, but on the other hand with concern, especially us, in Wielkopolska, because the statement of the Warsaw insurgents was made. Immediately letters came to Warsaw, in which we also claimed the insurgents of Wielkopolska, the insurgents of Silesia, because together we fought in these uprisings. And all those who lie somewhere, in small cemeteries and in large, different places of the Republic of Poland, also outside the borders of the country. That is why we were happy to adopt this bill as regards the statement of the veterans' grave. This concept is broad and meets the expectations of many environments. Ladies and gentlemen, such graves have been occupied by local governments over the years, and private individuals have also been involved. Here my previous speaker was also giving examples of heroes, which are difficult to classify as fighting a weapon in his hand. We also have such a character, Anthony Karpiński, in the cemetery in Gniezno. Antoni Karpiński was the first president of the reborn court in Gniezno, he was the chairman of the council, before, even in Prussian times, defending the parents of children who were on strike in September, in Gniezno and in many other cities of Wielkopolska. And his grave, which had been neglected many years ago... was the grave you used to take care of, who wasn't family at all, but she was a secretary in court. She's already retired, and she's been walking around looking after that grave. Then we found money through the city council to take care of this grave. And now this bill is gonna help with something like that. The direction is good, of course. From this point of view, it is also important to thank all the environments that, despite various difficulties over the years, In particular, such legal, organisational and, worst of all, financial graves were sought to care for. The collections that are being conducted, public gatherings in different places... Well, in Poznań, in Wielkopolska, for example, the last fundraiser that was held by Lech Poznań fans brought in 415 thousand PLN. One fundraiser. I think they've been raising for nine years. They raised a very large amount of money and hundreds of graves thanks to this money, publicly collected, restored and saved. For us, however, the biggest problem has always been that someone in the cemetery administers that there are rules related to the administration of the cemetery, there are fees to be paid. There is no family, there is no one to take care of the grave in the financial sense. And such a grave, according to the law, should be destined for liquidation. And it has always been the most painful: that the graves of those who for Poland, for our freedom, gave their lives somewhere through, well, financial matters are forgotten. And it's a good thing those environments are the ones that take care of these graves. Those associations... There are many, many different associations of such individuals in Poland. What I miss about this bill... However, the Minister is trying to explain here that these graves, which will be in the records that will be described, will not be able to be wound up. We now marked the graves of the insurgents of Greater Poland That's the kind of action we started in our district. And first, we made that record with the help of the schools. Volunteers... Of course, there must be a teacher, there must always be a head to guide it all. The teacher gathered willing young people and walked, grave by grave, writing names, checking catalogs, etc., etc. And they kept records like this. Ladies and gentlemen, in a small town such as Gniezno, the 70,000th, it unfortunately lasted several months. So if there's a lot of optimism in the ministry that they're gonna make that record so fast, then I say to you, gentlemen, be careful. I don't know if you guys have the resources or if the IPN has the resources or if there's even money guaranteed to do that kind of query. 'Cause it's really a lot of field work. This needs to be reviewed and catalogued. And that's what I'm paying attention to today. And yet, regarding the marking of the graves themselves, I consulted a lawyer who said this: marking the graves could be subject to the article. 8. And this ending is about financing supplies in particular to cover the necessary costs for the construction, repair, transfer or maintenance of these graves... In particular, the word is a legal key to understanding that these graves can also be marked. And now if you want to discuss how to label them... I agree that there should be a unified sign. But in Wielkopolska, in Silesia, Warsaw, they would also like to write the insurgent of Wielkopolska, the insurgent of Silesia, the insurgent of Warsaw. These are all our local fights, which together make up the history of the Republic. And that's what you need to understand. A distinction must also be shown. Under different circumstances these uprisings were. Some were considered to be national, mainly those which were here, in Warsaw, or in the territory of the Russian partition, and some were victorious. Unfortunately, they are not considered national. The Third Silesian Uprising, Wielkopolska, Sejne, etc. So really, really pay attention to that too. And finally, a little malice. I was recently at a ceremony in a small village called Czeszewo, near Miłosław in Wielkopolska. There, the plaque was unveiled in memory of a priest who was actually such a local provocator of patriotic actions. Before the Greater Poland Uprising, on December 8, he proclaimed the Czech Republic himself. He brought some kamrats with him, with buckets of tar, they went to September and painted all the Prussian names. Fortunately, no court has restored these names. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Łuczak, Mammoths and Bielan made their speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Fedorovich. The discussion is closed... [[Voice from the room: Yet Rulewski.]] Oh, Senator Rulewski also submitted legislative proposals. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Security Service in the years 2017 to 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1030 and the Commission's reports In the forms 1030A and 1030B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u210	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on the Act amending the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the State Protection Service in the years 2017-2020. This law was the subject of the work of the Board of Governors on 5 December 2018. At the meeting of the committee, the submission was accepted by the senators and therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. What's the bill about? The Act is of a technical nature. It follows that the original act of modernisation passed by the Sejm and the Senate... With regard to the amount of funds that have been allocated in this Act for salaries to police officers, Border Guards, State Fire Department and State Security Services... Calculation of amounts to increase remuneration This is one of the seven points of the Modernization Act, there are two points concerning the remuneration system and the incentive system... These salaries were calculated at the end of 2016, and in the years 2017 and 2018 the number of posts, posts in these units, precisely in the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department and State Security Service, increased by 2640 and this was, respectively, in the Police 1000 posts, in the Border Guard, 700 posts, in the State Fire Guard, 490 posts and in the State Protection Service 450 posts. As a result of the increase in the number of posts, it was necessary to increase the funds precisely for salaries and incentive schemes, pay for officials of these services in 2019 and 2020, which includes the Modernization Act. This update will increase in 2019 and 2020 the amount allocated to the remuneration part of the Modernization Act by PLN 22 million 243 thousand and this is PLN 10 million respectively in 2019 and PLN 11 million in 2020 respectively. The total amount is the 22 million, 243 thousand zlotys. As far as the whole is concerned, the limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of this programme, resulting from Article. Paragraph 7 1 bill will increase to a total of PLN 91 million 243 thousand... which means it will increase to a total of PLN 18 billion 19 million 394 thousand. This law did not raise any controversy during the committee meeting, the same was true in the Sejm. She was accepted by a committee that recommends her adoption. The meeting of the committee was attended by the Ministry of Interior and Administration, the Director of the Financial Department of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, also present today in the Chamber. There were basically two questions. One question I asked. It concerned an increase in the number of posts in the last 2 years as regards SOP officers. I received information, an explanation from your director, that the increase in the number of posts at the SOP is due to these new tasks, which, I say, we have equipped the SOP. These are mainly exploratory activities. The second element is to increase the number of protected facilities and to increase, so to speak, the scope of protection from the State Protection Service. The second question was asked by Senator Sługocki. It concerned whether police protests had an impact on the size of this increase. The director answered the senator's question. In fact, there were no more questions. There was also no particularly extensive discussion on this subject. One more information is that in the draft budget for 2019 already these amounts, these increases are included. It's just so we know that we're not increasing here, we're de facto reassigning... which means we're changing the modernization bill, we're adjusting to the current circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u211	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In view of the precise presentation of the report by the senator I will add to Grabowski that during the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions there was no longer a discussion about this law. It was supported unanimously by all senators, including the opposition. And the Sejm voted on this law in this way: 396 Members were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. On behalf of the committee, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u213	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. To present... [[Can I ask you a question for the Minister?]] [[Wait, they'll be here.]] Yes. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Krzysztof Kozłowski: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Mr. Senator. You're welcome, Minister. We welcome the Minister and invite him because there will be questions. Welcome to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, without questioning the purpose of this law, I have a question about the estimates of the Ministry, because perhaps the Ministry modeled its predecessors wondered whether, for example. certain strategically important facilities which protect the State Protection Service could not be protected e.g. by a hired company that specializes in these kinds of tasks. This has already happened in the history of Poland and, I think, in many countries of the European Union or NATO is being applied. Did you estimate how much it would be if these activities were commissioned by the service or by an external company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u215	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This case isn't new. It has been examined on several occasions and has also been discussed in the public domain. With regard to the most important facilities serving the most important authorities of the State, I think it is right to believe that this public service should protect them rather than external entities hired by the State. Why? Due in particular to the quality of these protection services and due to the responsibility for carrying out them properly. Whatever the exact cost calculation would be... I think safety is the most important thing here. In the Law on the State Protection Service, we have introduced a rule that it is possible for the Minister's decision taken under certain procedures to provide protection for certain facilities other than the State Protection Service, but the State Service, or the Police. In short, we are not conducting discussions on the basis of outsourcing to outside companies. Of course, other objects are protected by various private institutions. We are talking here about the most important facilities serving the most important authorities of the state, and in this respect we are not conducting such analyses, thinking that this is by nature a solution that should not be introduced. As for the cost, whether it would be cheaper in this solution or in the second... Well, it's hard to say. It seems to me that no matter what I repeat, in the interest of what solution the financial costs would be saying... It would certainly be small differences, but here the most important is the quality of these services, the protection tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u217	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u218	Minister, the Senator rapporteur was just saying that the number of posts has been increased. We are talking about the police, the fire department, the Border Guard, the SOP, and therefore there is this change in the Modernization Act for the years 2019 to 2020. We are talking about this amount of PLN 22 million. I have a question. There were protests we all remember, uniformed services. These raises are due from January 1st. As part of those raises, is that also... Did you predict these protests in the modernization bill, and that's why? At the committee meeting, it was said that... that the money was secured, or will the money for these increases come from the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u219	Mr. Senator, of course we didn't anticipate the modernisation bill, which was adopted in 2016, what was going to happen. We didn't take into account what was going to happen. No one was able to predict the protests and what our negotiations with trade union representatives would end with. They ended with the signing of the agreement and these increases will be financed by means outside the Modernization Act, of course. It is worth reminding here that in the program of modernization of uniformed services of police, State Fire Department, in some sense also voluntary firefighters, because 501 million zlotys of voluntary firefighters have a share in this program, i.e. they have a share in this amount, Border Guards, Government Protection Office, and since 1 February, after the amendment of the law, the State Protection Service was planned, among others. increases in the salaries of officials and salaries of staff. Of course, in addition to purchasing equipment, equipment, weapons, means of transport, in addition to investment in infrastructure, in building new facilities for renovation. Those raises... The first increase that had already been made was from 1 January 2017. The second was foreseen, planned and will be implemented from 1 January 2019. On average, an officer's job was an increase of PLN 253, the first one, the second one, PLN 309 on average. Plus, there's a raise that we've put in place outside the Modernization Act. Let me remind you, the first raise is even. No longer on average, and evenly for every post of officer 202 PLN since 1 January 2016, before the entry into force of the Modernization Act. In addition to the Modernization Act, the increase in the form of PLN 253 was also foreseen, as was the first of the Modernization Act, since 1 July 2019. In addition to the modernization bill, 309 zł, I will remind you once again. Since 1 May 2018, we have also introduced a raise for the lowest ranking officers in the lowest grades. An additional amount of PLN 150 million has been allocated for this. A capital add-on was also raised, about 175 PLN for each officer of the Police Department. The capital command has such an addition, but it has not been valued since 2009. Now, after this increase of PLN 175, it amounts to PLN 479 and PLN 90. This is the first valorization in a long time. This is realized or anticipated. If I'm talking about anticipation, of course I'm thinking about these 2 increases planned in 2019. The agreement with trade unions has made these increases bigger. These amounts, which I will now mention, of course, include those previously foreseen increases from the Modernization Act and the amount of PLN 253 from 1 July 2019 planned before negotiations with trade unions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Director here says that, of course, the consequences... But that's a further matter. That also ultimately increases that amount, but I don't want to go into details anymore. This will be the total amount of PLN 655 from January 1. I repeat, it contains the original PLN 253 and the July one... Sorry, this January 309 PLN, and July 253 PLN, so it's more. We also signed in agreement such a plan, a commitment that since 1 January 2020 no increase was foreseen in the Modernization Act. The modernisation bill will continue until 2020, but it will not... As a general rule, this was not the case and does not apply to wage increases, as they were to be implemented in these 2 tranches, in 2017 and 2019. This is the amount of PLN 500 on average from 1 January 2020. Of course, these increased expenditures related to salary increases and some of them, not all, but some, also apply to civil workers. They will be financed by the state budget but, of course, outside the Modernization Act. The effects of this change, which today the High Senate is discussing, are linked to the consequences that result from an increase in the number of posts. I'll remind you that in the police department, we've restored that 1,000 jobs that were taken out earlier. The PO-PSL coalition was decommissioned, 3,000 jobs, and 2,000 were restored, and 1 thousand were not. We have restored this 1 000 since 1 January 2017, so the funds are charged at a limit of 103 000 309 posts, as it was before 2009, we have restored this state, as if the status quo ante from that time or before. Well, of course, those certainly mentioned by the Senator-in-Office of the rapporteur's staff increase in terms of other services, dictated by the need to increase the duties and responsibilities of the State Fire Department, arising from the laws adopted by Parliament, or in the case of the Border Guard... Let me remind you that we have created or actually recreated, you can say, annihilated by our predecessors, the Carpathian Border Guard Division.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u220	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u221	Thank you very much. Minister, we have all received a letter from the Trade Union President, Mr Grey. This is the chairman of the guard... [[Voice from the hall: from the Border Guard.]] Yeah, from the Border Guard, but he's with the IRS... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: No, Customs Service.]] Yeah, Customs. I have a question, because I'm sure you got it too. Well, this is the beginning of a collective dispute. That's where he goes, among other things. not only to increase the number of posts, but also to increase the number of employees especially at the Polish-Ukrainian border. Could you briefly address these demands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u222	I wouldn't want to do that, because it goes beyond my competence, the competence of the department of home affairs and administration. The Customs and Customs Administration shall be subject to the Finance Minister. I, of course, know these speeches, because they are addressed to various actors, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but Customs and Customs Administration are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, so I would not like to enter the field of competence of another minister. Excuse me, Senator, but I think that's the right thing to do. [[Okay, then we'll write to the minister. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u223	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: There she is.]] [[There.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I only have one more question. I'll try to speak briefly. We know that 2 of the 7 are about pay, which is first of all, it's just pay, and second of all, it's a incentive system. It's like you're... Because as senators, we already have a look at what it's gonna look like in the case of officers. And what's it gonna be like for a civil servant working in the police department in the fire department? There is a certain wage bill for civilian workers, but how will this be spread out? Is that the data? Can you possibly present them, give them to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u225	Yes, of course they are. This agreement I mentioned concerns officers. Separate discussions are held and agreements are concluded with at least part of the trade unions representing non-university workers. I deliberately avoid the formulation of civil workers, because that is not the best term. In fact, there are officers and employees, so if I tell the un uniform, maybe it's for the best. Of course, the Modernization Act also provides for increases for them. This first increase, introduced on 1 January 2017, also covered police staff and other services: Border Guard, State Fire Department and then Government Protection Office. She was close to the average increase for officers: there she was, already mentioned, the amount of PLN 253 and here on average there is PLN 250 per job. As far as 2019 is concerned, I am now repeating what is written in the Modernization Act without agreements with trade unions, because it is separate, as I have already said, issue, later Here is the amount of PLN 309 for officers, and for civil servants there is PLN 300. So that's the height approximate. I is provided for outside the Modernization Act, contained in those previous agreements with trade unions, the amount of PLN 250 from 1 July 2019, the additional amount that was foreseen for officers and for employees at levels as I recall. That's it. Well, there are no other increases that have been negotiated in agreement by the union officers. Here's what I'm gonna say. And it's a good thing you asked, Mr. Senator, that I'm even grateful to you for that question, and I think the employees will be even more grateful than I am, or we'll be grateful together. You have to talk about it. Indeed, we are talking in a number of meetings, also concluding appropriate bilateral agreements between the service party, as it is called, and the social side, that is, trade unions. We are aware of the low wages of police personnel. There are over 25,000 of them employed in the police alone, in a 100-thousand formation. I will remind you of the number of jobs in the quota: 103 thousand 309 and there are over 25 thousand employees. Without them, the police would not be able to perform their tasks properly, because a large part of the safety tasks are carried out by employees. Let's say that 1/4 of this number, that's plus 1/4 of this ratio, that's like 1/4 of this 100 thousand, that's un uniformed workers. Their wages are low and they need to be increased. That's what we're trying to do as much as we can with the budget. Just as officers need to be given a decent salary, which, as you can hear, we are also doing in a significant dimension. But, of course, always, in any case, such decisions are an accident between needs or expectations and budgetary opportunities. They are higher today, you can say, thanks to good is the budget, but they are not unlimited. Therefore, everything that is agreed must be included in the budget calculations, must be covered in the financial plans, in the draft budget, in short, because today we are talking about 2019 and there is still a draft budget and in general in the budget laws of the various years, as soon as the processes related to the adoption of the laws for the following years have been completed. But in the future, we must strive for this. As we're doing now, as far as possible, what I'm saying again. To make this a continuous process so that these salaries are raised because they are too low. And I'm not hiding that from the High House because that's something that needs to be made clear. So, of course, we will be working on the draft budget for 2020 to report this, because the issue requires it. And what decisions will be, of course, depends on what opportunities the Council of Ministers will have, and then Parliament will adopt a decision on the amount of wage expenditure in this part of the budget. But let me repeat: we need to take care of the dignity of the officers and the decent remuneration of the employees of the non- uniformed services, because they also play a very important role in our security.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u226	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on security of mass events. The text of the Act is contained in print no.1021, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 1021 A and 1021 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on the Security of Mass Events adopted by the Sejm on 22 November 2018. The Senate Marshal sent this bill to two committees. Following the review of the Act on 5 December, the Commission of Local Government requests an amendment to the text. It's about art. 1 in point 1 of the title of the chapter, the words "emergency provisions' have been replaced by "emergency provisions'. And lithium. b, i.e. the second point in this article: in point 2, the words "Article" are added to the amendment order. 77 (b) shall be replaced by the words "after Article." 76 The following Article shall be inserted: 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) and Article 76 (a) shall apply. 77b shall be designated as Let me get this straight. Ladies and gentlemen, the world championship until the 20s in soccer. It's already the twenty-first tournament, organized in the youth championships. As we say, U-20. For the first time this tournament will take place in Poland, between 23 May and 15 June. 24 teams will play at 6 stadiums in 6 cities: Bydgoszcz, Gdynia, Łódź, Lublin, Bielsko-Biała, Tychy. Ladies and gentlemen, we know what the bill says about mass events and threats at the stadium. It's obviously not gonna be a high-risk game. Therefore, it was necessary to introduce such an occasional provision in this Act so that this whole procedure with the PESEL number should not be carried out, which must be given as we buy the ticket. It is therefore appropriate to give up this provision in the case of the youth championships. About the amendments... Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau and were taken over by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. These are not substantive amendments, but improve legislation. In the vote six senators were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. The Act applies to championships which will take place only in May and June. May 23 is the beginning, which means there is still a lot of time. Therefore, although these amendments may not be so significant... it is worth complying with the rules of law making. In this case, when we have time and when this law can be improved, it is worth improving. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision added in the article. 77b is an episode recipe. There's no question about that. This is a provision which is established for a given period and applies to these European championships. The principles of legislative technique say that it should be placed before the transitional provisions, which are at the end. He should be ahead of them. It's a matter of course that's the way it's supposed to be. I don't know why it wasn't noticed in the Seym and why it wasn't placed in the right order. There's another thing about this title, the fact that it's an episodeal regulation... Well, there's no such thing... there's one recipe that's been introduced into this bill. Actually, these are not significant amendments in substance, but we have been very often lately, and with many laws... Ladies and gentlemen, you have noticed that the principles of legislative technology are unfortunately completely unobserved. In this case, when the law is not needed until June, it is worth it, according to the committee I would like to remind you that 6 senators voted in favour and 1 abstained from voting on these minor amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u228	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Mark Rocki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Florek has made everything more descriptive. I'll start with the provisions of the bill to be amended. In Chapter 3 of Article. In paragraph 13, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: 4 it is said that the scope of the processed data identifying the persons involved in the football match includes the name, surname, PESEL number and, where it has not been assigned, the type, series and number of the document confirming the identity. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15, which concerns the rules for selling entry tickets for matches, is said to be selling entry tickets for a football match or to provide another document authorising a certain person to be present on it after obtaining the data that I have just exchanged. In the mouth. The second point is that the entry ticket for a football match or another document authorising its stay shall include the data referred to in Article. 13, which is the name, the name, the PESEL number. As my previous speaker said, this recipe is an episode, an amendment to the exclusion of this event, the final tournament for players up to the age of 20, is intended to enable children and schoolchildren to participate in this tournament, to facilitate the purchase of tickets, and perhaps to enable the exchange of those who would benefit from these tickets. It is worth noting that the similar solution resulting in the temporary suspension of the provisions of this law was introduced by the August 2011 Act for the UEFA Euro 2012 final tournament and the UEFA Euro U21, i.e. for players under the age of twenty-first year. Thus, such regulations have already been applied in Poland. In this case, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport unanimously supported the proposal without proposing amendments. The discussion concerned the legislative procedure and whether the senators should or should not participate in the drafting of laws already at the level of the Sejm, in order to protect against such shortcomings that require the amendments that the Senator referred to. So that, formally speaking, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport supported the law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up for... Oh, no, Senator Wind. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm looking at the senator here who made these amendments. Well, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the Senate who are doing a very important job by drawing up proposals for amendments. Whether the committees take them into account or not, that's the second thing. The important thing is that these amendments are. Maybe I didn't think so at the committee meeting, which is why I wanted to stress it now. However, it is indeed up to the Senate, senators or committees to decide whether these amendments will be taken into account or not. And as the rapporteurs of the two committees have already presented here, these amendments do not change in principle anything in terms of the material consequences, i.e. the substance of this law. They sort it out, adapt it to certain principles of legislative technique. But I must say this: in view of this situation, I have requested this, in fact, as the head of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, to adopt this law without amendment. I want to tell you what I was doing here. Well, I have had the opportunity to stand before Parliamentary committees on several occasions, with the Senate's amendments, and there have been cases similar to that when both Parliament's legislators and ladies and gentlemen pointed out that this myth of 460 Members is not worth correcting. I must say that following this, given that these amendments are indeed minor amendments... And I disagree with one of them, because there's a question of whether it's a single number or a plural number. Well, as far as the title is concerned, it's often that the title has a plural, and below it's a single, different solution. And that is why I believe that the adoption of this law without amendments is entirely justified. I'd also like to point out... The results of the vote were given in the committee of the local government: 6 votes in favour, none against, 1 abstention. Well, I have to say that at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, this result was definitely better, because there were six senators without amendments, no one abstained and no one opposed it. Indeed, it is as you signaled Senator Rocki. For a moment, we discussed the disadvantages and advantages of involving senators in seymary work. Depends on the situation, everyone's different. I'm sure the dynamics of change in the Seym are high. On the other hand, however, there are some intellectual sequences in which one could fall into, identifying here with seymical thinking. When the bill comes to the Senate, we have a fresh look. Furthermore, especially with the new laws, it is important to look as broad as possible, and the widest possible consultation is important. That's why here... Well, it's just so informative that I'm not going to start a discussion on this, because she's probably purely academic. However, once again, I would like to stress that the adoption of this law without amendments, as requested by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, in this particular case is very justified. No matter how much you respect and thank the legislators who search for all these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on Territorial Self-Government, State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, is included in print No. 827, and the committee report In print No 827 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Mr Marshal pointed out, today we are working on a citizens' initiative, which has been submitted under the right to petition. Here I will remind you that this is petition No P9-50/17, and it concerned a fairly obvious matter, I would even say that there is a high degree of universality, and that it is also important for many citizens, especially those who live outside the borders of our country, in particular in the European Union and in the EFTA countries, i.e. in the common economic area, and they are subject to the obligation to correspond with the authorities. Petitators noticed that when they respond to the call of power, the time comes for answers. If they are obliged to do so, they are counted from the date of the impact of this correspondence to Poland, i.e. from the registration by the Polish Post, because this is the operator. This means that they are in a bad procedural situation, because when they are abroad, they use the foreign operator, they lose time for his work, and only the impact of correspondence to Poland, stamped by the Polish Post, counts for the deadline necessary to meet the requirements of the Code of Administrative Procedure. In other words, correspondence in the countries of the European Union and the EFTA is barren, but counted as a response. The petitor noticed And he needs to be thanked for that. Since we are in a common European area, since there are so many Poles there, this cannot be difficult for them, we must equalise them in rights and consider that sending correspondence confirmed by a foreign operator is the same as sending it to Poland. That's it. That's it. Just an explanation. Of course, Polish citizens can use their statutory representative in Poland in order to possibly keep an eye on the interest, at least on time, of this person living within the European Union. But, of course, it doesn't solve the problem, maybe it just disciplines it a little, maybe it draws a little more attention... But in fact, in order to answer a letter to make an explanation, this representative has to connect with the client, correspond with the client. I'm not talking about costs anymore. And only then can he take up positions. So that, as a result of the petition, the borders, the borders, and the new ones, I would say... well, maybe not so much the privilege, but the benefit in terms of the integration of our citizens into our offices. I would like to add that all institutions from the Polish Post, which was of course most interested in this matter, by the Ministry of the Interior, by courts, which sometimes have to deal with cases of breach of the deadline, by the Supreme Bar... Maybe I can spare you the math because you know it. All institutions that are involved in these matters have given a positive opinion and a model of a petitor, and through me, they ask the High House to adopt this draft law in the version presented by 2 committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u235	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the sound... It is actually a side question related to the wording of the amended article. 57. Namely here is the concept of the post operator designated. Well, it's clear, as far as we're concerned, about the Polish state. But there is also the concept of a postal service provider providing universal postal services in another country. I understand that this is about the territory of the European Union. Is it the same there? Are there designated operators there? Because there may be several universal service providers, including one designated for official writings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u236	I'm saying this case wasn't in session. Therefore, it seemed unambiguous, perhaps because it is accepted, as you suggest, Mr. Senator, that there is one in every country, so to speak, an official operator. The Polish Post Office was and is still a Polish Post Office... [[Yeah, and InPost...]] ...though for some time now, I've been paying attention You're right, Mr. Senator, you're vigilant. Poland Post loses its monopoly, the position of the only public operator. It's not a post office anymore, what it used to be called, it's a company. It is a company, but of a character distinguished by law. It is subject to certain obligations, obligations, especially in the field of offices, e.g. court services. But it's by way of tenders. Right? I want to be precise, honest and honest with you. This problem has not been thoroughly investigated. I suspect that there was never a problem with this, that in these countries there are, as in Poland, designated such operators. Moreover, European law says that all these operators can operate throughout Europe. The law permits it, there is no obligation to notify it. Recognition of the fact that such an operator operates in European territory is equivalent to recognition as an institution obliged and authorised to stamp consignments. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u237	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u238	What is my question? There is such danger that outside Poland there will be an operator appointed and several, dozens of... [[...different, private.]] ... universal postal service providers. And now let's assume that someone will write a letter to such an operator, not the one designated in a given country. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u239	Well, we need to know that in this rich offer of various operators In Poland, too, it is growing. Only this one is designated. Of course, there is a second, arduous solution that the petitor wants to prevent. You can send the shipment through the Consul and then it will also get such primacy as it was sent through the Polish Post. It's just that it's embarrassing because getting there during office hours is a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u240	Are there any further questions for the rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Now I would like to ask if a government representative would like to speak on the bill presented? [[Speaking from the hall: Now the minister was to speak.]] Minister was just a moment ago we saw But I'm sure he had to go away. [[No problem.]] Then I'd like to open a discussion. Have any of you signed up for the discussion? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No. 939 and the committee report In print No 939 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The bill is the implementation of the postulates contained in the petition addressed to the Senate in 2017 by Mr Paweł Janas. The author pointed out that there was a discrepancy in the way in which the time limits for proceedings were to be calculated in criminal proceedings and in civil and administrative proceedings. In the case of criminal proceedings, if the end of the time limit for the execution of the proceedings falls on Saturday in order to maintain the time limit, the proceedings shall be carried out on that date at the latest, unless on Saturday there is one of the holidays indicated in the Act on days off from work. This is the 1951 Act. Then the end of the deadline for the performance of the action will come on the next day, which is not a day off from work. In the case of civil and administrative proceedings, if the term of trial ends on Saturday, that period shall expire on the following day, which shall not be a day off from work. And it is now the case that, when the deadline ends on Saturday, the parties and others entitled to take part in the criminal proceedings do not act on that day and bring legal remedies on Monday, believing that they will still be taken into account, as they will comply with the deadline, as is the case in civil and administrative proceedings. It is also worth noting the difficulties for people living in smaller towns, where post offices often do not work on Saturdays. This problem has been identified not only by the petitor, but also by the representatives of the doctrine raise this issue. The joint committees adopted this proposal unanimously The 11 senators were in favour, no one held back, and no one opposed. I request the adoption of a draft law amending the law on behalf of the combined committee in print No. 939.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u242	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could move on to the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. High Senate, I would like to inform you that we will proceed to item 17 on the agenda tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1046 and the report of the committee In print No 1046 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u243	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to report to the High Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. At today's meeting, the committee adopted the law without amendments with four votes in favour, and I am also giving this recommendation to you. As regards the purpose and subject-matter of the Act, it aims to adopt further regulations for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2018 and constitutes an amendment to the Act of 8 December 2017. On the basis of this Act, inter alia. In 2018 the National Health Fund will be increased by PLN 1.8 billion. It will be possible to transfer additional funds from the state budget to finance restructuring tasks in the coal mining sector; that is PLN 150 million. It will be possible to transfer additional resources from the State budget, in the form of a special subsidy, from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, to the implementation of aid to agricultural holdings in which damage caused by drought or flooding occurred in 2018. Another element of the law is the possibility to transfer additional funds from the state budget to take up shares in PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe; that is PLN 1.8 billion. In addition, it will be possible to transfer expenditure of PLN 12 million from part 29 of the National Defence to part 57 of the Internal Security Agency for the implementation of expenditure resulting from the Extra-military Defence Preparation Programme of the Republic of Poland in the years 2017 to 2026. In addition, it will be possible to transfer grants to the Fund for Roads as early as 2018; this is the amount of PLN 1.1 billion. In addition, the Act decides that some of the above appropriations submitted in 2018 do not expire on the expiry of the financial year. As I said at the beginning, by 4:2 votes at the committee meeting... The Commission recommends that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u244	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does the finance minister's representative, Mr Tomasz Robaczyński, wish to speak on the bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! In fact, the rapporteur has already said a majority on this bill. I would just like to add that the possibility of financing additional expenditure is primarily due to savings linked to the good labour market situation and, in general, the good economic situation, but above all, precisely to the good labour market situation and therefore to the need for less funding for the Social Insurance Fund, as well as to a smaller need for resources under the European Union's own resources. Last year's so-called contribution. own resources or contributions to the European Union have been overpaid, so we can now reduce and reduce the expenditure of the state budget for this purpose in clearing this contribution. The third main source of these savings is the savings resulting from debt handling, the cost of debt handling. Thanks to the constantly decreasing debt, these costs have also been saved this year. As far as the objectives set out in this Act are concerned, the Senator-rapporteur has already discussed this. I will just add that the amendments provided for in this Act do not change the basic economic parameters, those that are most important to us, i.e. do not increase the deficit of the public finance sector. These are de facto flows between units of the sector and therefore this sector deficit will remain at the same level planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u246	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Radziwill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you about the art. 1 in point 1 of the amendment concerning the subsidy envisaged for the National Health Fund. Explain this mechanism to me, because I don't quite understand it. It is expected that PLN 1 billion 800 million will be transferred to the National Health Fund for a reserve fund to finance benefits. One thing's a little out of the ordinary, just to be logical. It is further stated that the planned costs of benefits may be increased in the financial plan. I understand that this is about the financial plan for 2018. So how is this surgery going to go? The Act will enter into force in the last days of December. Then the financial plan will be revised in terms of costs in the National Health Fund. Well, that money is obviously not going to be spent this year, in any case in the vast majority of cases, so it will be transferred as a backup fund for next year. My specific question is basically this: when will the fund be able to include these funds in the next year's plan, which is already known, with the possibility to contract these benefits with the provider? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u248	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! It's like we're actually rebuilding this backup fund. This year it was used in the amount of PLN 1 billion 300 million and was then used in the amount of PLN 400 million, a total of PLN 1 billion 700 million from the reserve fund. This was intended to eliminate queues, mainly cataracts and endoprotesoplastics. It will be started at the earliest... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. ...after the settlement of 2018. So it is only around April 2019 that we will de facto know what we are talking about when it comes to the settlement of 2018. Either way, these funds will enter the fund's reserve fund and then be mobilised as necessary in the following year, i.e. The backup fund will serve the same as this year. We set up a backup fund because we didn't have the resources for specific benefits. We're rebuilding this fund this year, according to how we used it, and he's going to move on to another year to possibly support additional benefits next year. So, in fact, he's gonna go into the plan when... I mean, as a backup fund, it's gonna be in the plan, and it's gonna go into the spending when there's gonna be a change in the NFZ's financial plan next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u250	The senator wants to continue. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u251	But if I understand correctly, then it will not be possible to include these measures in contracts concluded for the whole year, e.g. the amount of hospital lump sums since the beginning of the year. Well, from what the Minister has said, it appears that this money will actually be possible to use sometime if there are additional possibilities. But when exactly?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u252	I mean, he's gonna be used de facto in a year in a situation... Not all benefits are contracted, the fund is spent or if there are different streams of funds, and over time it turns out that these funds are either sufficient or insufficient, and the reserve fund is used precisely to fill this hole or deficit in the NFZ. The Fund is created on a sustainable basis, in accordance with the law, i.e. expenditure equals income. And this backup fund always goes into a deficit if it's being used, it always goes into a deficit of the National Health Fund, but it will only be used if needed. We predict that such a need may occur, as this year, and therefore there is the operation of rebuilding the fund, which was about PLN 1 billion 700 million larger this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u253	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Nobody gets... Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the Reprivatization Fund, because more than 2 billion zlotys are going to go for it. What's the matter with him that requires a capital injection? And what is the point of these changes in the transfer of funds from the Social Security Office to the Bridge Pension Fund and the Demographic Reserve Fund? Is it just prevention, or is there so much money in the ZUS that we can afford?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u255	Thank you very much. With regard to the Reprivatisation Fund, these funds will be used to meet these key objectives of the Sustainable Development Strategy, the Responsible Development Strategy, i.e. to support Polish entrepreneurs. I can't, and I can't even talk about specific companies that might be assisted by this fund, for example because they are listed companies and any such information affects their property situation or status, or the value of their assets and the value of their shares. And that's gonna be... The Act allows for such operations from the Reprivatization Fund, i.e. these funds will not only be used for reprivatization purposes, but also to include shares and shares in those companies, which are important from the point of view of the Responsible Development Strategy and thus from the point of view of the Polish economy. As far as the Bridge and FRD Pension Fund is concerned, this is it. not so much a transfer of funds from the ZUS to the FEP and to the FRD as... The US currently does not need these funds, as I said, because of the blockades that have been made by the US in the state budget. Therefore, we do not additionally fund it over what is required from the Social Insurance Fund, from the state budget. But we can see that as far as the Bridge Pension Fund is concerned, there is a year-to-year increase in payments from this fund and in order to flatten the level of subsidies that... Since the source of funding for the Post-Mountain Pension Funds is the state budget, it is in order to flatten this jumping increase from the state budget over the years, precisely because of the good situation with regard to the labour market, that we decided to fund the Post-Mountain Pension Fund. Moreover, as far as the FRD is concerned, the government is currently undertaking a proposal to modify the rules of interest valorisation in terms of pensions, a minimum increase in pension benefits at the level of at least 70 PLN. And here because of the uncertainty about the actual number of people who decide to retire in 2019, we also decided to transfer funds to the Demographic Reserve Fund in case the Social Security Office did not manage to cope with these benefits. If that doesn't happen, these funds will be settled in the Demographic Reserve Fund. In any event, the Social Security Office may use this fund, in accordance with the Act, in the event of a shortage of funds. So that here we kind of cover ourselves when it comes to next year's benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u256	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Senator Blackbay. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u257	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I only have one question. Would you mind, Minister... I didn't ask that at the committee meeting, which is why I'm sorry and I'm asking today. Just like the Minister estimated... I don't know if it's been said now, too, that this 11 billion is the amount affected by this amendment, the bill. Tell me... 8.7 billion on FUS and 1 on debt, and 1 on your own contribution to EU spending... Could you characterize this, tell me why these amounts are such savings? Could it not have been planned in the expenditure plan when the draft budget was being submitted? They're just coming from something. It's true, isn't it? From some situation that's happened. Could the Minister characterize these three elements? And that's what happened. That's what happened. I have three elements, because the others are small, and they remain until today's correction?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u258	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u259	Thank you very much. Of course, planning has to do with it that it's a certain prediction, in this case. of such large sizes, on the macro side, which, in particular, as regards the Social Security Office, concern the labour market. And this planning, which is applied by the Minister of Finance in principle always, in this case in agreement with the Social Insurance Institution, is quite conservative planning, i.e. one that will allow to carry out tasks which, in case the economic situation is not as it is... Or there are other macro indicators, but if it turned out to be a little worse... And here we are talking about the Social Security Office, above all about the labour market. All the time, fortunately, unemployment is falling all year long, the labour market is still in good shape, there is an increase in wages in the national economy. This all translates happily into these flows between the state budget and the Social Insurance Institution, because, as you know, those benefits that are paid from the Social Insurance Institution must in some part be financed from the state budget. This plan of the state budget As I say, quite conservatively allowed it... That is, this economic situation and this good situation on the labour market, which is unexpectedly good, have translated, in addition to conservative planning, into the fact that you simply do not need to pay so much money from the budget to the Social Insurance Institution. And that's why there's this blockage. Of course, we could plan more optimisticly, assuming very high indicators indeed, but we are dealing with a whole spectrum of situations or elements that affect the Polish economy, such as the threat of brexite, such as turbulence in general in Europe, whether social or economic, and therefore this planning must be conservative. And if so, really, after such a very positive all these macro factors have been realized, this gap between the need to pay from the budget and the possibilities of the ZUS is getting bigger. About the contribution... The same can be said, in principle, about the contribution to the European Union and about the service of public debt. Thanks to the high rating of Poland on the markets, thanks to good policy in terms of debt, the Minister of Finance... This makes the end-of-year costs of the debt prove to be happily lower than they were expected. But I must also say that they were planned conservatively and taking into account possible market turbulence. If they don't come true, then we're dealing with savings. The same is true of the contribution for the European Commission. Here there are still elements such as Brexit or generally the problems of the euro area, or problems not only economic, but also possibly political in the European Union, which translate... But this is particularly about Brexit, because this uncertainty about Brexit was and all the time, as we can see in the media, is: what it will be, whether it will be and eventually when. So we had to be prepared and we are also prepared for next year as regards the contribution to the European Union. Because this contribution or the amount of this contribution is directly linked to the entire budget of the European Union. If the United Kingdom were to leave the European Union within such a very hard brexite and, for example, It would turn out that it would stop paying any contribution, and then we would not have de facto the Union's resources to fulfil those commitments which were, in turn, incurred against beneficiaries from EU funds. So that we are always prepared, the state budget is prepared for a possible correction of the contribution to the European Union every year. This can be different, at the beginning of the financial perspective usually there are adjustments to the EU budget down and then it turns out that these funds are too much and sometimes there are upward adjustments, when there is a particular intensity of payments within the financial perspective or there are such things as possible gaps in the provision of own funds to the European Union budget. So that, in some ways, the reason for all these savings is, on the one hand, some conservative planning, because it has to be, it has to be, it has to take into account possible difficulties in the economy, possible smaller revenues to the state budget or income, and on the other hand, exceptionally good, as it turns out, situation and economic, and on the labour market.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u260	Are there any more questions? Senator Czarnobaj continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u261	Another short question, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the history you're personally engaged in. I'm talking about budgeting or in the history of the predecessors this happened in, I don't know, 8, 5, 10 years that we had to adjust the budget due to underestimation, or in the last 10 years is there a situation that we have savings at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u262	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u263	It can't be said that statistically... We had a crisis at the turn of 2008 and 2009, as I recall, then the budget was probably adjusted due to deficit difficulties. Because the deficit, according to the constitution, the Finance Act, etc., cannot be exceeded... Therefore, depending on the financial situation, it can be up once, down once... but in general, because... it is also very different when it comes to these savings... If it were to be traced over the years, the approach of the Ministry of Finance regarding the budget is similar, i.e. above all, it takes account of whether it should take account of the sustainability of public finances or of the long-term budget, so that planning is usually conservative. The differences between the size of these savings that occur or are being realised are de facto due to the market situation. It is well known that, since the 2008 crisis, budgetary problems have, for some time, also been linked to some of them. with economic prosperity. In fact, this year we have probably achieved this and so the economists see the economic peak, that is, this year these savings are indeed large and the deficit of the state budget will probably be much lower than the forecast, probably even half. But it's still in the billing phase. I also said at the committee meeting that the end of the year or December itself, and even the last three days of December, are decisive for the implementation of the state budget, and it is therefore difficult to determine this level in the end. These savings are once bigger, once smaller. So the level of planning or planning is relatively constant, but either as a result of government actions, which are currently also happening in terms of influence, or because of the economic economy itself, these savings are either greater or less simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u264	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the Senate is attended by ministers: Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski from the Ministry of Energy, Mr Maciej Miłkowski from the Ministry of Health, Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Mr Andrzej Bittel from the Ministry of Infrastructure. We also have the President of the National Health Fund, Mr Andrzej Jacyna. Do the ministers wish to speak on this law? No one's checking in. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czarnobaj joined the discussion. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! You should enjoy whenever there are savings, when there is more money to share. This is better than if we were to deal with today's budget adjustment related to the non-realization of revenue. Here I would like to say immediately that I do not intend in any way to contest all that is written down, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the draft of expenditure. At the committee meeting, I asked the Minister, the president of the health fund. Or the Minister of Infrastructure... Of course, I do not have the slightest basis for this, and I do not intend to do so to question any position related to expenditure. If we are talking about increasing the value of money spent on roads, especially for the local road fund, we must remember That there's no limit to what we need here. So if 10 billion were written here instead of 1.1 billion, it would be fantastic too. If we're talking about shortening the queues... That's not up for discussion at all. And so on and so on, and so on, I don't want to prolong. I'm sure the Minister was very specific about the tasks for which these expenses are planned. I'm sure you'll recall that last year, too, at the end of the year, we were making a correction. If what is not realized on the expenditure side, or what will result from increased revenues, is used to reduce debt, I think it will be the right thing to do, but if on 15 December we proceed to a new distribution of PLN 11 billion, then I would like to say that I am reminded of a time when directors of various types of institutions in the People's Poland said: it seems best to spend money in December, because there is a lot of money, and that prices are rising, it does not matter anymore. And I see a certain resemblance in the case of Law and Justice. Well, it seems best to spend money in December. Yes? And this December correction always gives this positive, it would seem, an effect, namely an increase on the income side. Minister... Sorry, on the side, on the income, on the expense. Or else: savings are transferred to other tasks or there is a kind of increase in amounts for budgetary tasks. The Minister said that the budget is being constructed conservatively. Minister, I am aware that the budget is like a living organism and it is difficult to plan in any position, especially with high values, the amount of the zloty. The fact that there's economic development and what's related to the FUS, the Social Insurance Fund... As I understand it, you're not doing this on the basis of a fortune teller. Yes? Some things can be predicted. Once again, I want to say that it's not about us planning the money for the zloty, but this 11-billion-dollar transfer, adding quotas to all kinds of tasks at the end of the year is not the best option. That's why I'd like to ask you for a second year in a row. . those who construct the budget That this budget should not be hurraoptimistic, but also not extremely conservative. By spending money in this way, it is far worse than spending money that can be planned. In January, February and all year round tasks are carried out. All the money that remains unused at the end of the year, in my view in general, is so in my view, and so we have said during the committee meeting, should be spent on reducing the deficit. We are pleased to hear from the Minister that the deficit will still be at least half as much as we heard during the committee meeting. That's also a good direction. But adding, you can say, quotas to tasks already carried out, supplementing quotas for tasks at the end of the year is not a good solution. This certainly has nothing to do with the good planning and sound performance of tasks related to both tasks and resources. Therefore, as last year, also this year I ask that you examine the situation on the market, on the labour market, on the Polish market, and also the situation in our environment, more as if you aim at what concerns the party and income and expenditure. I'll just say I've worked in local government for 20 years. There is of course a much smaller scale, but many problems are repeated. We always try to put together a budget that is neither a budget nor a hurrahptymistic budget nor an extremely conservative budget, as the Minister said. I'll say it again. We should be pleased that many tasks that are important will be carried out to a wider extent or to the extent to which they were intended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u266	Thank you, Senator. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1047 and the report of the Commission In print No 1047 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u267	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The law was the subject of a joint meeting of committees. In fact, the Act is a complement to the existing law, a supplement to a good one that meets the expectations expressed by society. The purpose of the law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of those land is to ensure the proper functioning of the amended law. As is apparent from the justification for the draft law, the authorities issuing certificates and setting conversion fees and the perpetual accounting courts expressed doubts as to the interpretation of certain provisions of the law. Certain provisions of the Act have therefore been clarified in order to ensure uniform application and efficient disclosure of ownership rights in perpetual books. There are 3 points here that have been carefully described and which talk about the details of this solution. As I say, this is a supplemental solution to the law that is already in operation. During the meeting of the committee, the legislator did not submit any comments, any legislative doubts. At the meeting of the committee there were representatives of the social side, except that they submitted comments not to the contested law, but to the previous act previously passed. The Legislator confirmed that there is no reason to submit amendments to the bill that we are leaning over today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u268	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski called in. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, do I understand correctly that in this case we are extending this circle of people who may apply to housing cooperatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u270	Mr. Senator, they were actually already in this package... [[But basically, did...]] They were, they were. Undoubtedly, they were already there. It doesn't concern... In particular, there's a solution... In general terms, it is about taking into account the possibility of reaching out to actors For the most part, not private persons who benefit from de minimis aid benefit from, I will already read thoroughly, from the limit of public aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u271	The senator continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. So here's the question: how is this going to work? If someone lives in a municipal resource that has been privatized, i.e. He bought the apartment, and this apartment is in a building that's in perpetual use... Maybe you can make the citizens understand the intention of this bill as well. Who is applying for the conversion of perpetual use into full mortgage ownership? And how long has this trial been going on? And my question goes to that... Because there were concerns that the process of converting perpetual use into full ownership could cause a delay if someone wanted to make a transaction I don't know, get the place, get the place. 'Cause it's gonna take a while. What is the situation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u273	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this aspect was not the subject of the committee, but there is a minister present who has already given detailed explanations today. That question, which Mr. Senator was gracious to ask, concerns the previous bill, slightly corrected today. In fact, this was not the case and I kindly ask you to exempt me from answering this question, because the answer to this question in the context of the development can be submitted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u274	Are there any further questions for the rapporteur? [[There isn't.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Artur Soboń, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jackowski reporting. Minister, please take your stand in the grandstand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question, just following up on what I asked Senator Pekkis, the committee's rapporteur. Well, the co-operatives have been, haven't they? So any entity could apply for the Law on the conversion of perpetual use, of course, provided that the status of this perpetual use was regulated, because we know that many cooperatives have a big problem with this because there are different types of non-regulation in this respect. What about the utility facilities now? I mean. if someone is e.g. user of the utility premises in stock In the use of eternal... what happens then? Does he have the right to make such a request, or does he not have the right? I don't know, it's like... owner of a garage standing on the ground which is in perpetual use.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u276	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you so much for that question. In fact, it's a few questions, so I'll try to answer quickly and accurately. This amendment, which we are discussing today, concerns only the issue of state aid. I mean, this public aid is the result of the difference between pay and pay. 20 annual fees are the basis for payment when converting perpetual use into ownership In view of the value of the entire property, after deduction of the permissible limit on de minimis aid. This includes By the way, because the law is not addressed to entrepreneurs, e.g. housing cooperatives in the field of commercial premises or other entrepreneurs located on residential premises. Because the entire bill applies to individuals and apartments. And that's all we're dealing with today, that's what we're dealing with. But of course, you can't separate. They're kind of next door, but still. Entrepreneurs since this transformation. Because if the dominant function is the housing function, even when it comes to the entrepreneur And this is where I answer the question. This utility site is converted automatically. I mean. no application is required, from 1 January 2019 perpetual use will become property right. The only problem is that, in the case of payment of 20 annual charges, there may be a need for State aid if that amount exceeds the de minimis aid. Therefore, we give entrepreneurs the opportunity to choose the method of payment based on this percentage of the fee they pay today as users of perpetuals. So in the case of a 1-percent rate, the fee may be charged for 99 annual charges, for a 3-percent rate, for example for a utility premises or a garage, 33 annual fees may be charged. In this way, they will not have to pay any aid to the State aid received. And at a time when a natural person from such an entrepreneur buys an apartment or a place of use, he requests a return to the 20-year fee scheme, which is the basis for all individuals. That's what this amendment includes. She also answers the question you asked earlier about the issue of turnover. We really accepted that certificates would be issued automatically to all perpetual users. But in a situation where someone has a legal interest, e.g. wants to sell the apartment, there will be an additional application mode to the local government or the State Treasury. And then the local government is obliged to issue such certificates in 30 days, so that the person who wants to sell the property can sell the property as already converted from perpetual use into property. And we also regulate this issue. In short, the perpetual use of the property passes only and exclusively in the area of housing. But, of course, the garage, if it is a garage in which the dominant function is the residential function of the article. 1 of the Act defined its scope It is also on 1 January that it will automatically become property. And if this is a separate garage complex and a completely separate property, then we are waiting for a system solution that eliminates perpetual use in general. Because what we're talking about here is 2.5 million perpetual users. But perpetual use applies not only to residential land, but also to factories, shopping galleries, churches, the Polish Departmental Association... Really, various activities and various functions. For this, we need absolute certainty from the European Commission that we can notify the way in which it is proposed for individuals. So that it wouldn't be... how to put it... the compulsion of public aid, which would be severe for the market. Because these subsidies, also in the case of this law, i.e. in the case of a housing unit, can be such large sums that they will distort the market. We wouldn't want that in any way. Therefore, we only provide the application procedure for entrepreneurs. Because in the case of individuals, you do not need any application for payment, because this payment is automatically 20 annual fees and a discount. In the case of the State Treasury, the amount of this bonus is stated directly in the Act, and in the case of local government land it is defined in the resolutions of the City Council. And we also know that today is the day on which the city council of Warsaw, you can say, showed all the disadvantages and advantages of this solution. It must be designed in such a way that it is correct, constitutional. Well, the City Council of Warsaw considered it appropriate to propose a voucher which it had abolished just today before the elections of Warsaw residents.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u278	Senator Jackowski continues the question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And I'm gonna go back to that legal business. Will this solution mentioned by the Minister concerning this certificate issued within 30 days be honoured by a notary? Well, let's assume that citizen A is dumping the place. He's got a discharge from the eternal book, and it says in the book that he owns one, and he owns one, and he owns one, and it's perpetual use. And he also adds this proof that he's already mortgaged. Let's call it that popular. It's the owner. But the question is, will the notary take this into account? Were there any conversations with the notariat about this? Is it clarified in this law that this certificate is in practice equivalent to an extract from the perpetual book? Because it's crucial for the real estate business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u280	Yes, Senator, this change, this mode is the result of notaries' expectations, who in this regard had some doubts. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, a certificate will be issued for each transaction, as for those converted land which will not be sold at the moment, will not be subject to any turnover. And this certificate is the basis of a notarial act. In turn, the entry in the book I'm just pointing this out to be precise. It will be confirmed once and for all that there are no claims that Jan Kowalski is the owner only after the conversion fee has been paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u281	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u282	And now I have a question about these entities, let's call it public or private. You were talking about religious relationships, companies that also have real estate on land that has the status of perpetual use. The Minister mentioned that the government was waiting for clear guidelines from the European Commission in this regard. But how should this be put in time? How long can this process last? The point is to have a coherent system. Because we're eliminating losses in the form of perpetual use of private property, while in the public sector or in the private sector, it's not private at all. The institution is still in operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u283	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u284	Thank you very much. Let me put it this way: if I were to give a precise date when convincing the European Commission is finished, of course I would be careful. I would like this to happen as soon as possible, so that during this term of office of the Sejm and the Senate we can propose a system solution, which is one of our obligations, including to your Members and Senators. But of course I can't guarantee that. I'd like the senator to understand that well. The problem is that, for the European Commission, perpetual use, unlike for us, is much closer to lease than property. In the case of secondary trading of perpetual use in Poland, it is paid de facto as property or almost as property. For the European Commission, it is neutral from the point of view of the public owner, so if someone as an entrepreneur paid for perpetual use, it is not deducted from the value of the property, i.e. the value of the state aid obtained. Well, that, of course, introduces a gigantic injustice on the market, at least potentially. Therefore, we must be sure that the European Commission accepts this method of payment and that it will not result in State aid subsidies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u285	Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u286	Thank you. Minister, the bill was passed, if I remember correctly, on July 20th, and it came in after, like, 30 days. I remember when we signed it. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: On 5 October, it entered into force.]] Yes. As regards these matters concerning the conversion of the perpetual right of use, they come into force on 1 January next year. And I have a question for you, Minister. Were these consultations wrongly conducted? Can't you? It was predicted, that the deadline for this certificate is too long, that it needs to be shortened, that regarding this public aid... Because it's a government amendment, yours. So I understand you've come to the conclusion... what were the conditions? I understand someone's been addressing you. and therefore this amendment was made on your part. I'm just afraid that you're updating this bill too quickly, and when this law comes into force, it's gonna turn out that it's gonna have to be updated again. What were the reasons for this amendment now? Didn't this consultation show earlier that, indeed, these things you are talking about, and rightly so, however, we had to anticipate, and that didn't work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u288	First of all, I have to say this completely openly. The fact that it is so difficult to eliminate perpetual use in Poland is the result of a number of conditions which took place at the time, we are in 2018, and indeed there are many issues that will raise doubts, even during the application of this law. From the beginning, I have been very open about the fact that we are taking on a great challenge and that we will meet this challenge. And the fact that we're reacting today before January 1st is potentially an obligation or a public aid procedure could be initiated... We respond so that there is no perturbation in the market. If notaries have doubts in this regard whether they can trade without certificates, if someone is in a hurry and simply does not want to wait for this certificate, because indeed local governments have a whole year to prepare these certificates... Well, it's a big scale, so it also has to be understood that local governments wouldn't be able to do it faster. In this situation, we respond by proposing this application procedure and 30 days for this request. To answer this question honestly, I will say that I do not rule out the fact that when we observe the operation of this law, we will still make adjustments. The elimination of perpetual use is a really difficult project, it is, you can say, revenge still from the previous era, and in fact even revenge from the East in Poland and it is taking, so to speak publicistically at the end. Could all this have been predicted? Nobody signaled for help. It wasn't until we were sure... It's the UOKiK who's responsible for public aid, honestly speaking, not me. The UOKiK after analysis and after these conclusions that we received from cooperatives, entrepreneurs... Well, we've decided to react and adopt such an amendment so that there's no doubt, quickly enough. And to prove that we have been trying to get a clear European Commission position up to the last minute, I have a letter dated 22 November 2018, in which the Commission writes that the right to convert perpetual use into property rights can be compared to the purchase of real estate in the real estate market. Compliance with market conditions would therefore mean that the transformation would have to take place under the same conditions as any other acquisition of real estate in the real estate market. To be honest, I do not fully agree and we will convince the European Commission that this is not the most appropriate way to assess the situation in Poland, but it has been unchanged for many years and we must take this into account. That's why we're proposing a solution to avoid... This is the situation of State aid subsidies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u289	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm worried about the art set. 4, it's not about the novel, it's about the mother's bill. There, the property rights of the State Treasury can be exercised by the old man, the director of the field branch of the National Agricultural Support Centre or the regional branch of the Military Property Agency and the director of the Department of Housing Resources of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Are these all entities that could exercise such property rights under the authority of the State Treasury?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u291	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u292	Mr. Marshal, this is a question about... [[Yeah, yeah, but the question is, is...]] I'd have to see that article. It's hard for me right now not to have him in front of me to answer. But, yeah, that's the whole... [[Closed circle, right?]] As far as housing is concerned, yes. [[And what, for example? With the State Forests? Can they come in?]] The woods are in a specific situation because they actually... There are flats on land, only there is a zero rate of charge for use. So it goes from zero, no 20% there, no form of payment multiplied by zero. There's no certificate here, there's no procedure here like when the rate is 1%. [[Okay, but they're still not owners, they're just users.]] Yeah, I mean, they're in the case of... But as I recall, the transformation in the State Forests is at zero perpetuity fees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u293	But it's not in this bill? [[Mr. Senator, do you have any further questions?]] Excuse me, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... So we don't include certain entities?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u294	We do not include e.g. seaports. There's shut-downs, yeah. [[They are, aren't they?]] There are exemptions in this bill, yes. These are, of course, exemptions introduced as a result of inter-ministerial arrangements.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u295	Are there any further questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jackowski is speaking. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I would like to begin by thanking the government for taking this extremely difficult issue of ordering ownership and, in particular, the issue of ordering perpetual use. Let me remind you that this construction was introduced into Polish civil law in 1961. This was clearly motivated by ideological considerations. The point was to fix... This means that, on the one hand, a form of economic turnover should be allowed in respect of real estate and, on the other hand, state ownership should be established. Because then there was one general state property, the property of the State Treasury. And right now we actually want to face a certain element, let's call it decommunization of these events in the economic area, as the Minister mentioned. The Minister is right that, for the European Union, this is a specific form of lease and can be interpreted in this way, although, of course, any marketing of the right to perpetual use of immovable property requires notarial trading, it requires a note in the relevant perpetual book which is established for the property concerned. And now you have to take into account that around this law began a specific game between the different owners of the property on which the perpetual use is established. The Minister mentioned that the City Council of Warsaw originally adopted, as I recall, probably discounts of more than 90% ... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: 98%.]] That's 98%. I wasn't sure, but the Minister fixed me up. Today, however, this has been changed to a maximum of 60%. The problem is that that resolution was adopted in the previous term and clearly had a propaganda-electoral effect. The idea was to convince the inhabitants of Warsaw that here is a good Warsaw government managed by the Civic Platform, which is surpassed by the government, which proposes only a 50% discount on one-off payment of these 20 annual fees for perpetual use. And at the moment the situation has sort of returned to this state, that it remains a 60% limitation, so it's actually not much different from what was written in the bill. I've been following this bill that I've been very supportive of, and I think... Perhaps it is not good that we did not manage to communicate with local governments after all to develop one coherent formula of this bonus, because at the moment we have such situations that depending on who owns the property on which the perpetual use was established, it is from now on the one who transforms, the citizen who transforms this use into full ownership, is somehow financially dependent. Because other charges are payable if the State Treasury is the owner and others if it is the local government. In the case of self-government, it could be in plus, but it could also be in minus. High Izbo, here, I believe, the problem that this bill raises is a wider problem. We still accept partial solutions after 1989, which raise some aspect of ordering the legal status of real estate in Poland. Because we had a large number of acts from the period of the Polish People's Republic or from the communist period, starting e.g. from municipal decrees about Warsaw real estate... And this is the first cause of the situation when it comes to the status of real estate in Warsaw, because there are claims, there are claims justified, unjustified, is trade in claims, etc., etc. And that's all the verification committee is doing right now. There were many nationalisation decrees, including forest real estate, such as forest decrees, agricultural reform decrees, etc., etc. And we, as a state regaining independence after 1989... no ruling crew then managed to bring about a clear, clear regulation of the legal status of the land. I don't want to tell you what direction this is right now, because this is a separate discussion. All I'm saying is that we should completely regulate these issues. And that's why... Well, in short, it was basically about what we call a reprivatization bill or whatever it would be. they have identified, in any case, an orderly, rational situation in this regard. And because of what I'm talking about here, we have such situations that some agglomerations, large, urban, real estate fairs in Cannes are exhibiting properties to which, as it turns out, there are so-called claims. Former owner, which causes scandal, because everywhere in the world if a public entity exhibits property, it may be expensive, it may have other disadvantages or advantages, but one thing is certain: that such property in terms of legal formula is an absolutely reliable property. There's no doubt about that. Unfortunately, in many cases in Poland, public entities cannot guarantee this. And those disputes that go on, they go on. So that here I would appeal to the government, to Minister Sobonia, enjoying, of course, this bill and glad that this step was taken... Because for many years we have heard that this must be done, but it cannot be done that it cannot be done. I'd call on the government to sort things out... And this is the foundation of building a free economy or a free market economy at all, this is a fundamental issue for the development of this economy. I would call for this problem to be dealt with. Especially since this topic also triggers international repercussions, generally known, which, by the way, also appeared on the IPN Act. And this is the first statement. And two: I wish you strength and perseverance to explain to the European Commission that we are dealing with a specific form that comes from a time when Poland was not a sovereign country and adopted such a solution. In order also to understand that the removal of Poland from these events, well, requires a certain special approach, with great attention, and understanding for the specifics of this process. For this simple reason, there may be a situation in which citizens will simply be in an unblamed way differentiated in terms of the benefits that can come from this transformation of ownership. I mean. One citizen will pay more for the same and another citizen will pay less for the same. And that is also an important element when we are talking about the whole discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u297	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1044, and the report of the Commission In print No 1044 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. At the beginning, two words about why further changes are needed in order to effectively enforce alimony and so that the Alimitation Fund, which was created in a situation where debtors do not pay, is implemented to a greater extent than at present. It must be borne in mind that the debt of various debtors towards the State Treasury, in other words, is more than PLN 11 billion in relation to the Alimentation Fund, which is a huge sum. The downloadability to this fund in recent years has increased from 13% to 33% thanks to the changes that have been introduced not so long ago, but this is still 1/3 of the collection to the Asylum Fund. Therefore, the draft law, which was introduced by the Government on 30 October 2018, is very important. The current law is to be the next step towards improving the effectiveness of the execution of alimony. The instrument for this purpose is designed solutions to improve the flow of information on maintenance debtors, in particular information on their employment, between the relevant institutions or services and judicial bailiffs. This is intended to increase the possibility of taking action against persons who are in need of maintenance. In the proposed system, the Social Insurance Institution will transmit certain data to the bailiffs at their request, but it will also be obliged to update them in case of changes. The bailiff will be required to inform the establishment of the cessation of execution in relation to a specific debtor, as well as of the cyclical confirmation every 6 months that the enforcement procedure under which certain information is obtained is still in progress. The Act also provides for changes in several other areas, including an increase in the penalty imposed on the employer in connection with the illegal employment of the worker, and an extension of the employer's financial liability for determining the act of payment of the maintenance debtor's salary without a corresponding deduction of his part for outstanding maintenance. It is in the criminal policy area linked to the employment of workers who do not comply with maintenance obligations. These amendments will enter into force on 1 December 2020, as the Act of 6 December 2018 on the National Debt Register is to enter into force on that date. It will allow employers to check whether the employee is registered as a maintenance debtor. In addition, changes in the Code of Conduct and the Law on Enforcement in Administration are expected to affect the increase in the collection of maintenance. They are based on the possibility that the execution can be carried out on the amount of the allowances of the staff for their missions. 50% free of execution in connection with maintenance benefits That kind of debt. In addition, a legal basis shall be given for the employer to be fined in the event that he fails to comply with his obligations relating to the attachment of the debtor's remuneration by the bailiff, i.e. the obligation to transfer the amount seized to the creditor or bailiff, the obligation to provide the bailiff with information on the amount of the remuneration and the time limits for the transfer, and, in the event of obstacles to payment of the remuneration The obligation to make a statement on this matter as well as the obligation to send documents to the new employer of the debtor. In this case the upper limit of the fine will be raised from PLN 2 000 to PLN 5 000. The Act also provides for an increase in the maximum amount of the fine, which falls within the jurisdiction of the court, from PLN 10 000 to PLN 15 000. In order to enhance the professional activation of maintenance debtors, the Act provides that persons who fail to comply with their maintenance obligations shall be given priority in the employment of public works which may be organised by municipalities and other entities. Moreover, the Minister responsible for Labour will have to take into account the idea of activation of the unemployed who are maintenance debtors when allocating the resources from the Labour Fund to finance actions carried out by district and voivodship labour offices. The Act also raises the income threshold on which the payment of maintenance from the Asylum Fund was made, from 725 PLN, as it is now, to 800 PLN from 1 October 2019. In general, these solutions were accepted in committee discussions with understanding. The Legislator pointed out a number of amendments that would be important to take into account. One of these amendments has been taken into account as a minority proposal, which will be presented in a moment. The discussion focused, among others. around the amount of the income threshold entitled to benefit from the Alimentation Fund. Different amounts were reported, e.g. the amount of PLN 1 000 which is in the amendment of the minority. The social side, which was represented at the committee meeting, called for no threshold at all, or for it to be substantially increased as soon as possible, in order to meet as many claims as possible. The majority of committees voted in favour of the law without amendments. Two minority proposals have been submitted, which will be presented in a moment and I will not present these minority proposals as rapporteurs. The proposal of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy is to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u299	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen. 'Cause I don't think there are any ladies. Senators! I am doing a bit of a double role today because Senator Rulewski has authorized me to present the conclusions of the minorities he was supposed to be rapporteur, but I cannot get here in time, and I will also present those proposals which I am rapporteur. I'll start with the ones you introduced to Senator Rulewski, and I joined them. The first one is contained in the print in item 2. In this proposal by the senator, this amendment is about reducing deductions for convicted workers paying part of the resources to the Justice Fund, which, of course, reduces the amount of child support they enforce. Thus, reducing this to 7% will result in a larger proportion of child support payments. In general, the Senator's and mine's amendments are going to make this bill real. I repeat: it has really improved the situation of families with children, for which parents do not pay child support. Because although in this bill there is an increase in the threshold from PLN 725 to PLN 800, this is, first of all... Well, it's very little. Notice how the average wage goes up. Let's see how all the prices went up. Let's see how the lowest wage goes up. The situation of families with children who do not have adequate protection because of one parent who does not pay child support will not improve. So Amendment 3 this amount of 800 PLN replaces the amount of 1 thousand PLN, in turn Amendment 4 increases the amount that would apply to children with disabilities to 1 thousand 200 PLN. Also... The senator just walked in, and I'm already reporting on his corrections, so let the senator finish. Amendment 5 aims to make the benefit itself worthwhile, because it is now up to 500 PLN, it has been like this for years, and the same arguments that support raising the threshold amount are, of course, also in favour of raising the amount of the benefit itself. So that it is no longer discretionary, Mr Senator and I propose that not only this threshold in Amendment 5, but also the benefit itself in Amendment 6 should be valued in relation to the minimum wage for work. And it would be compatible with those regulations that Senator Antoni Szymański wrote here very precisely. Among them are also the provisions which require the so-called. to an aliminary How we call these people, and rightly so. A quick report to the employment office and then give it preferences, for example. He worked on public works in the city so that he could have income, and so to speak, he didn't pronounce that either he had no job, or he didn't have no income, etc. These are obviously good moves, but, like I said, they don't change anything when it comes to basic expectations of the social side. Mr. Senator was talking about the fact that there was also an option to lift the threshold at all. Indeed, it was, but it was also said about the amount of benefits, about the fact that it is far dissatisfying. And that's why I think that these amendments meet the expectations of children who have a worse start because one of the parents is just irresponsible and doesn't want to put money on their child. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur also raised the question of the National Debt Register here. There was controversy about whether or not to invoke these provisions, since they have not yet fully entered into force. However, the analysis of the time limits that apply to us and the date of entry into force of these provisions shows that under no circumstances do we face a situation such as to act irresponsiblely by recalling these provisions now. That is why, before the legislative process is completed, these rules will enter into force because the chance that the President will question them is minimal. And even if that were to happen, the Sejm and the President will be able to intervene in this matter. That's why I think the legislator's right. And she didn't change her mind. That you can boldly, without the risk of error, recall these rules today. Otherwise, it will be as the Minister said: we will be standing here again in a moment and we will be updating these provisions, because we will need to introduce these provisions, which we could clearly introduce into the bill. Why do this when you can avoid it? That is why I have tabled and maintained this amendment, which is, as it were, a two-member amendment contained in points 5 and 7 as a consequence... But I forgot to tell you, Senator. It also requested to speed up the entry into force of the Act in respect of these thresholds, from 1 July to 1 January 2019. The more that these thresholds are calculated, as I remember, depending on the income from the previous year, so there is no problem here because these revenues are known and the thresholds can be calculated. So these rules can be implemented earlier, as we stand for. So much for the minority proposals we made at the committee meeting. We ask you to take them into account, because the problem of parents who have stayed with children And partner, second parent doesn't want or can't pay alimony, because there are also situations that he can't And who collect the benefit from the Alimentation Fund for this reason... Their situation will change only in two cases If we actually raise the threshold and if the amount of the benefit itself at least so to say, it will follow the rise in the lowest wage. That is why I am counting on these amendments to be supported by the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u301	Thank you, Senator. Right now... [[Sorry, we're counting.]] ...senators may report no more than a minute of question to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Stanisław Szwed, a representative of the government, wish to present the government's position on this matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes. Maybe there won't be any questions later. The senator said everything.]] Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Antoni Szymański, Mr President, quite accurately referred to the committee's meeting, as well as the main assumptions for amending the law in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, and so-called. The maintenance package we're discussing today. And after a brief discussion, especially in the case of minority proposals, I have two such general comments. The most important change we are proposing is the issue of improving the effectiveness of the execution of alimony, because this is the biggest problem that affects us. And it is worth reminding here that we were at 5% of the effectiveness of executions, and today we are at 33%. In the last 2 years, this level has increased strongly, but of course this is not a good situation yet, because the ideal situation would be if this cheatability was at 100%. But it's not there. But there's already a significant improvement in the collection rate, because it's 33%. At the end of the year, I think there will be 36% when it comes to repayment by debtors. This is the first key issue. And these changes that we propose in the bill are both a question of improving the exchange of information between the Social Security Office and the bailiffs on maintenance debtors. In order to make it easier, speed up the communication of this information, which will make it easier for the bailiffs to pursue their claims. As well as amendments to the Criminal Code allowing labour inspections to check whether the question of extending executions, inter alia. to cover revenue related to maintenance debtors' business trips. There are also sanctions for illegal employment, increased sanctions for employers It's also a very important change. Today it is quite common for employers to pay their debtors simply in black, under the table. This change is supposed to put an end to it somehow. It is a question of professional activation of maintenance debtors, namely public works. This offer as if it would be addressed to them in the first place. A case that has already been raised here, i.e. an increase in the income criterion. In this case, the income criterion is raised to 800 PLN. This will make about 60,000 more people entitled to a maintenance allowance. Raising up to 800 PLN The revenue will be calculated according to data from 2018. It will not cause in 2019 that someone earning a minimum wage will lose. Here's the profit. In 2020, when we take income from 2019, there will have to be changes in both education, 500+ and maintenance. This is the declaration made by Minister Elżbieta Rafalska. We need to get back to this issue. It's about the income criterion. But next year. Issues relating to the legislative dispute. Of course, the project we sent to the Sejm included the National Register of Debtors. This is a matter of ensuring that entrepreneurs are sure that the person in question is in this register. As the legislative process is still ongoing, we have withdrawn from this and have restored the provision that is in force today. At the Senate committee meeting, the legislator, at least I understood it that way, did not agree that we should be able to enter the National Register of Debtors in the act, because the legislative process is ongoing. Until the text is published in the Official Journal, the process is not completed. The president hasn't signed the bill yet. We can't bring it in until the process is complete. Hence the proposal for change. I would like to remind you that the regulation enters into force in 2020. What was included in the original draft will be introduced on the occasion of another amendment of the law. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u303	At present, senators may submit a request to a government representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? This is Senator Radziwiel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u304	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! I'm sure you know that. In the report of the committee's meeting, this was the case. There's kind of a big social movement here. We are all under great pressure from various organizations or individuals who turn to us, senators, above all on this threshold and claim that it is too low, that its increase is too small, that it is done too slowly, etc., etc. Another issue is the amount of benefits. My question simply concerns the reason why such values were adopted rather than other values. Is there any other reason for limiting the possibilities in this respect? Explain that. I think this is the hottest case right now about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u305	We'll add another question to Senator Komarnicki's question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! I think less than two years ago, Minister Jak was here and he was talking about changes in the prison system with a strong indication for allies who will be employed primarily so that huge sums of unpaid maintenance can be enforced. Would you please satisfy my curiosity and tell me if what you're... Progress is big. Congratulations. That's between 5% a 33%. Is the Minister's programme such as: The reason for the increase in the execution of alimony? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u307	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u308	Maybe I can answer Senator Radziwill first, who asked about the issue of funding. We have adopted a solution which at the moment is kind of consistent with the income criterion in the program 500+, i.e. 800 PLN. That's the profit criterion. The cost expected in the 2019 budget is almost PLN 70 million. In 2020, if we hadn't changed anything, it would have been PLN 260 million. After raising the income criterion by PLN 100, this cost increases to around PLN 600 million. It's a row of greatness. That's the first line. Second line. We are happy to see that the collection rate is increasing, but that does not mean that the debt in the fund is decreasing. Unfortunately, this debt is growing, he is already at the level of PLN 11.5 billion. Well, for various reasons, it is. There's a higher benefit, although of course this benefit is for... There is also this gap because maintenance benefits from the fund are paid up to PLN 500. Today this average is at the level of 400 PLN. There's still a reserve, but the debt in the fund is rising. I can confirm once again what Minister Elżbieta Rafalska said. Well, above the level of income... Because we do not hide that this income criterion results from both the minimum hourly rate and the minimum wage that increases in our country. In 2019 it will amount to PLN 2 000 250. Well, we can't imagine. I'm talking about our ministry. The situation is that someone working for a minimum wage could be deprived of benefits. This situation does not threaten us in 2019 because revenue from 2018... But if we had not changed this criterion, this could probably have happened in 2020. So that's the change we're announcing. I can't say responsibly how much it's going to be, whether it's going to be 900 zł or more. But this kind of work is going on in the department right now. In agreement with the Minister of Finance, we are wondering how to approach this, taking into account the possibilities of the state budget. Mr. Senator, of course, these other activities are also important, e.g. picking up a driver's license. I'm sure that contributed to that higher retribution. There are also issues related to the justice system, e.g. Putting on what's called professionally, collars for the prisoners who do the punishment. The fact that they can take up work at that time has led to this cheatability being higher. The Minister of Justice announces further changes in favour of even more effective judicial action in this area. This must be a whole package, developed both in our ministry and in the Ministry of Justice. I don't have the exact data. I can't introduce them to you. Is that even the data? It's hard for me to say. We would have to get information from the Ministry of Justice if there were any separate studies in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u309	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u310	I have been an entrepreneur for many years, and I know how you can effectively influence allies. My question goes this way. You know in advance In your speech, it even sounded like it. It's like some entrepreneurs are kind of figuring it out together. Minister, this 11.5 billion is the drama of families and children. There are entrepreneurs who do that, but it can be picked up. Is there any idea they shouldn't be working fake papers and running away from alimony payments? You yourself have noticed that this is a serious phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u311	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u312	One of the proposals in the Act is to tighten the sanctions, i.e. to increase the penalty. Until now it was the amount from 1 thousand to 30,000 PLN, from now on it will be from 1.5 thousand to 45 thousand PLN. Of course, control is important. This is about situations where there's a contract of employment or a civil law agreement. Well, it's gotta come from something. It can't be the way it is today. Maybe it's not on the agenda, but it's quite common for us to meet with the fact that employers downgrade employment contracts or not even sign full-time contracts, only part-time contracts, and the rest are paid differently. And this is, unfortunately, largely the case for those who ask their employer not to pay child support on these amounts. Well, that's the problem, and we're looking for solutions. Of course, this is the solution we have proposed. It will likely also have an impact on the increase in effectiveness. Well, on the one hand, there are amendments to the bill, and on the other hand there is pressure and, I would say, greater promotion of this in the form of talking about tightening penalties and stigmatizing such employers. Because an honest employer doesn't have to be afraid of anything, just the kind of employers who do it. When we talk about it in other countries, there is no such thing as cheating in such a way as to the welfare of another person or a child. Well, in our country, unfortunately, it is. And that requires a trial, and it needs a change. We propose, as I say, a system of increased penalties to regulate these issues, but we are aware that this is a process. This is also a joint action, because there is no dispute between us about execution, because everyone is aware that this is cheating people who need this help. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u313	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 5% up to 33% That's the growth, isn't it? Well, that's what I wrote down. What does it look like in absolute numbers? How much is that? How many people were obliged to pay alimony before, and how much is he paying right now? How many more people need to be paid? And the question is, is this going to be our last step, or are there any other plans? I don't know, what do you call it? Repercussion, any pressure in other departments, as far as the other function is concerned, would I say to force allies to pay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u315	Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u316	I served it as a percentage. I was talking about almost 6% in 2008. Today we're talking about We have data for 3 quarters of 33%. Like I said, we estimate that it's 36%. The average number of beneficiaries is 300 000. This is the number of people who will benefit from the Asylum Fund, this amount up to PLN 500, because that is the possibility. So the number of maintenance debtors is at this level. Of course, the number of people who pay alimony is much higher. 'Cause when someone pays alimony normally, we don't have it in the trust. We're talking about people who use the Alimentation Fund. So that's a big number. These events or the fund's debts are increasing. Because if 33% is downloaded, the rest isn't downloaded. So we're gonna make it up from the fund, and these amounts are going up. These are certainly not the last steps in this area. We propose such solutions as part of the maintenance package. The original version we prepared in the resort was even wider. But we also think we need to see how it works. And we're not acting alone either. I've already told the senator here that the Ministry of Justice is also strongly involved. 'Cause it's gotta be the vessels connected. And probably if we have a summary or an analysis of the functioning of the bill next year, we'll be wondering what we can still change in this respect. I'm sure you'll be back to discussing what Senator Radziwiłł was asking about, which is the income criterion. Well, it's going to be one of the topics that will include the Alimitation Fund, which is very important, because that's an important issue when it comes to supporting the poorest.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u317	Can I just ask you a question? Perhaps the Minister has the data. How many people avoid paying alimony, i.e. How many are they supposed to pay according to a court order and not pay? Do you have that intel?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u318	I don't have that kind of data right now. [[About 1 million.]] Well, that's what we estimate, but there's no such precise data. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u319	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Senator Szymanski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question whether to encourage such a social campaign, it would say that the duty to keep children is one of the basic duties of parents. We know that the culture of paying children in different European countries varies. We were with a group of senators in Denmark and there we were clearly told that there is no problem with this not only because institutions work great, but also because there is culture for years and it is unacceptable for a parent to allow himself not to pay child support. In this context, attitudes need to be changed and social campaigns also serve to change attitudes. Wouldn't the State, together with the Ministry of Justice, anticipate such a campaign, which would also be supported by the Senate and by the relevant committees, so that this culture of child support will change in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u321	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u322	This is a full agreement, Mr. Senator. Such actions are taking place, maybe in too little scope, but, I think, when we meet here, together with the Ministry of Justice, we will think that this campaign will be even more effective, that's what I call it. But, as I said, this is a process, because the issue of raising the criterion alone does not solve the problem that we talked about. The first thing that matters here is the responsibility of parents to pay and raise their children. Well, if this basic element doesn't exist, it's a powerful problem that later affects the people closest to it. But this is also a matter of justice, improving efficiency, speed of action, etc. Here are more elements to be added.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u323	The list of questioners has been exhausted. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is necessary to talk, and it must be loudly, about one of the greatest pains, about the harm and shame of Europe, which Poland first gives to Polish families, children, and even Europe as a last resort. It should be recalled that Poland has 33% participation in the brexite, because it was the Anglo-Saxons' reaction to extortion of various benefits on Polish children to cut themselves off from Europe. But let us remain in the sphere of Poland. I regret, first of all, the Sejm bureau, the chairman of the Legislative Commission, that the project, called "408" by the senators and the senator of the Civic Platform club who assumed this data, has still not been considered and followed up. The second regret, in the work of the committee chaired by Senator Szymański, we have developed a relatively compact system that meets the government with a good change, in which there are several elements, Minister: effectiveness, subsidiarity, universality of the maintenance system. And when we talk about total opposition, let's talk about total negation. The negation of a problem that has not been solved by several governments, because the problem of a maintenance was not born either during the governance of a good change or during the so-called. thieves' governments, only at the time of systemic change in 1990, when civil liberties, open borders, free economic activity, good or bad, caused us to fall from 70% efficiency during the total system to 12% as a result of various statutory changes. And to the level just... Minister, you're not telling the truth. There's no 36% cheatability, because I wouldn't bother with that, and there's definitely no increase. You're as wrong as Senator Bierecki, who mixes dynamics with absolute numbers. The absolute number is one true gentleman reported that it has increased, and I am responding to Senator Czerwinski. Debt from 10.5 billion to 11.9 billion. There have been and are arriving debtors of the Alimentary Fund, about 13 thousand. I repeat, the dynamics of paying to this maintenance fund are increasing, but in BIG, i.e. in economic information, where the claims of municipalities are reported, obliged by law to such acts... If there were 900 last year, it's probably 300 this year. So the problem continues to grow. In fact, dynamics are dropping. That's what you don't want to talk about. But more. This is no longer your competence, because I can certainly say that the two ministries do not cooperate with each other. Proof? There was supposed to be a maintenance package. The maintenance package included these laws, it is true, but still changes in the judiciary, in the field of the Minister of Justice. Where's the bill? Where is this law that introduces a table that introduces new means of execution, time, so-called. Instant alimony to make it very short, even drastically shorter... It's not in the Seym, it's not... And all this, to be honest, is placed on the benches of the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, including even taking into account workshop trips to Denmark. And I can't believe you, Minister, are consciously doing this. I wouldn't say you're part of a team of total authority, but you certainly don't have enough knowledge of this trial. It was given by Minister Marczuk, who is not here and who has very, very much changed since his visit to Denmark in our delegation. That's where the system's efficiency is 80%. And you can't say it's just a matter of morals or long-term tradition. This is a matter of a very efficient enforcement system. And the issue of this enforcement system is shown in our work, only you turn around. And the proof of this reversal is this trend in Poland... But I'm not hiding, other governments aren't, either. The maintenance system was recently issued in 2015. This is probably the information of Minister Rafalski of 2016. And that's why I'm not surprised you don't know. I didn't either. How many people in Poland are not maintained to a full or partial extent, whether it is 1 million, or as with clients or clients of the Alimentation Fund it is 300,000 children... We don't know. And if we don't know how we can build a legal reality? But we've counted how much, and we know where and what kind of problems there are. What didn't you say? Why aren't these Minister Jaki ideas working, notabene so fake. Hale was supposed to be, and it was open one hall, twice, already during the Platform's reign, I think this hall has been opened for the third time now. I think it is. [[Third time's a charm.]] We're waiting. It's not the right way. So it's not... What else? The prevention was good, the warning law 209, which removed the word "resisting" and introduced the principle of a mathematical approach to evasion. If the debt is 3 maintenance benefits or the amount... and the municipalities have sent 119 thousand notices to the prosecution. That's what the D.A.'s office took 39 grand... In fact, 17,000 were sentenced to public works. Public work to this day is that you don't pay for it. You may be happy to use it, but you don't pay. Even worse data, Minister, I'm offering you. I was promised to become a prophet in these matters. Electronic supervision as a form of the cheapest participation in the work process for maintenance. It was alleged that there was a standstill. In the meantime, the contract with the company that handled it was terminated. Last year there were 1 000 100 people who were supposed to pay child support, and last year this number fell to 1 thousand. 30. It's such a great form, which allowed 500 zlotys to force work on a maintenance debtor, although not quite so. It's just a couple of data. I would like to inform you, the High House, that this bill, which in several respects is a good law that facilitates the work of the bailiffs... Note: there are 1 000 500 bailiffs and 700 000 applications for prosecution. I don't want to bring... If you have 700,000 obligations to the state, because this country is bound to prosecute, and the bailiff is a government official. God, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna use that word. It is only then that internment techniques are effective, not prosecuting by means of a judicial apparatus. The bailiff has a double status in Poland. He's not interested or he doesn't want to... Maybe he doesn't want it as much as he can't be interested, because there are 700,000 applications, and the cost of law enforcement is kind of a deficit. It's just that the bailiff's got a lot of stuff to do with postage stamps. This law goes against us here and introduces what we have seen in Denmark, a system of digitalization. There will be no more letters with a return certificate, no more searches. It's all gonna be computers. But this is just getting started. And finally, the 800 zloty case, which actually, as the senator said, is the hottest. That's not true either. Minister, the freezing of the maintenance system occurred last year when receiving a minimum wage enabled the use of it by single parents. That was over $9. These people haven't received benefits since last year. You say this bill will increase the list of clients, the charges. But first, it's like she cut out a lot of them. And it's right to say it's freezing. People who are employed today still exceed the threshold by PLN 25 and do not have maintenance rights. Senator Augustine rightly predicts that this raise is short-lived. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that. Well, wages are rising. Maybe it's so good that these people don't need to be helped. But somebody prove to me that you can raise a child alone with the income of PLN 725 per person. That's what the rent for the apartment is, or the rent. You can't do that. The social minimum is 1 thousand PLN. What mistake have you made? You made a 500-plus charm mistake. You thought 500+ would sort of put on all the programs, all the poverty, all the pains. About half of the single parents were rewarded with this kind of national bonus. But today these people are being taken away not only maintenance benefits. The 500+s will soon be taken away from them as well. And don't be surprised that a woman burdened with one child, alone raising them, who her daddy hasn't seen or confessed to... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time's up, Senator. Because you don't have any secretaries...]] I'm finishing my sentence. Five more minutes. [[I missed it. It's been two minutes.]] Uh-huh. I'm just finishing up. Don't be surprised she's running into the gray area. She has 1 thousand zlotys or 200 zlotys in front of her. Anyone would do the same thing as this lonely woman. I'm gonna go on with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u325	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I understand you want to sign up for a five-minute speech. Yes or no? [[Yes.]] Yes? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Of course, it's outrageous when one parent doesn't pay child support. This is an outrageous situation. This is an illegal situation and the State is obliged to enforce the alimony court's judgment. However, for years, not only in Poland, but in Poland in particular, there is a huge problem with this. You do not cope with this, fail your parents, fail your children, and therefore have a responsibility to take care of them, because you are unable to help your parents recover the money due to your child. If that's what we think, and I think that's what we're supposed to think, let's just remind them that 2/3 of the people... Probably that much, because we don't even have the data. This should also be taken care of at all, and I am surprised that the ministry does not seek it, but maybe that's why it does it so that it is embarrassing. Because because of the threshold that is introduced, 2/3 of these families, which are incomplete most often, are immediately deprived of their right to benefit from the Alimentation Fund and must face this problem alone. And of course this bill will slightly improve the situation of 60,000 families, as the Minister says, but try this country on to these numbers and we will assess the importance of this law, whether it really solves the problem or whether it can only touch it. And who's the beneficiary? In my opinion, most of all, the country. Because what does it mean to improve the collection of funds? That means more or less that the State will be able to put less into this fund. That's it. How it is with this pay, how it concerns those who are now entering this system, and whether this threshold is sufficient, you said Senator Rulewski, so I will not repeat it. It is beyond dispute that the state is inefficient in this regard. Mr. Senator Rulewski may not have been right to talk about it, but you felt that he was well-known in these matters, interested in foreign systems. We started working as a committee in his inspiration to approach this issue holistically. God forbid we can get as far away with these proposals as possible, because what is not working. This way we can add another 10, 20, 100,000, but still to that 700,000 will be far away, far away. That is why I believe that these minority proposals are absolutely legitimate. Minister, you spoke here about the sums that would be needed to implement these proposals. Well, you say that at today's meeting, and 2 points earlier, billions of zlotys of this year's budget were transferred extra to different institutions and there was no Alimentation Fund among them. And this could be done right away, because the sums that we gave here a little while ago were a dozen times bigger than those that were needed to help these families. They haven't decided on financial considerations. A representative of the Ministry stood here and boasted that the budget situation had not been so great in a long time. We've spent almost an hour of debate on this. We know well that it is impossible to explain this lack of money, but only the lack of willingness to handle this matter. I know it's not easy. And I don't think the Ministry of Labour's position is strong enough to break through... I know because we made various social demands for our governments, and it often turned out that the ministry was unable to enforce it. Well, it's just that then the budgetary situation didn't really look like it is now, and you could take it in good faith that this money really wasn't. Now they are, and that is why I have absolutely no inhibition, that Senator Rulewski should speak of it in his own name, and perhaps he will make some proposal. To propose that this amount of PLN 800 be raised permanently to 55% minimum wage. Really, let's stop standing here every year and talking about how much it's supposed to be. It can't be that we discourage single mothers from working or force them to do something. It's not any money that this money, divided into her and the baby can cause exclusion from access.... It will be necessary, as the Minister promises, to come again and to raise this threshold legally again. Nobody knows how long, no one knows when... Let's get this over with and tie it to a minimum wage. It's not much more than that, it doesn't know what the sum is. We're proposing 55%. minimum wage for work and, where the child is disabled, 75%. That's how I look at the senators... I suppose we're getting the same e-mails in this case, from the same parents who say that they didn't get 500+ because there was a threshold, they're probably gonna get a couple of zlotys over this threshold of the Alimentation Fund. And they'll have twice as much as nothing. You shouldn't do that. I think this proposal makes sense. The second amendment I am making is the amendment proposed by the Legislative Office. Well, I'm not going back to the one I gave as the minority rapporteur... This one's about a little something. As a result of the laws being dealt with in parallel, they have the same subsection in one of the paragraphs. Our Legal Office is proposing to remove it. So let's do it, let's do it. It is not that something is very urgent to us, we can calmly convert it, do once a system solution, a system movement. And we will stop calculating this every moment, and the Ministry will finally be relieved of its obligation to apologize for expressing, or even begging the Minister of Finance's money clearly necessary for children whose parents, unfortunately, turn out to be, mostly men, irresponsible. Let us take this responsibility on behalf of the Polish state, because these children And that's why the whole pro-family policy is a very valuable value for the Republic of Poland. When we look at this from this point of view, we have an additional incentive to finally do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u327	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki... [[And I'm making amends.]] Good. [[Mr. Secretary?]] Yeah, I'm just gonna see if you signed everything... Yeah, it's okay. [[Yeah, it's signed.]] Okay, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u328	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I don't speak very often, but there are things that we need to talk about very, very loudly, and especially we senators should do it. I am convinced that this sensitive matter and this great shame of the Republic with our help... Here we should all be absolutely in agreement, and under what my predecessors have proposed, under the direction of ordering this matter, we should sign the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senators! Let's see. PLN 13.5 billion, PLN 13.5 billion of unfunded money, and in this amount of PLN 13.5 billion is begging those who are very difficult. We say a million people. This is our shame in Europe. We're an inefficient country. We can tell so much in public, from the Prime Minister to the President, how great we are, how much we do for this society. A million people, 13.5 billion. Minister, my colleagues' proposal is a proposal that will make it easier for you. I agree with what the senator just said, that you won't have to beg because it has to be done once and for all, systemically. Each of us has received an e-mail such as a begging letter. Marzena tum wrote to all of us. We've all been given this tragedy. This letter of despair, ladies and gentlemen, shows the absolute failure of our country. I'm gonna say it now as an entrepreneur. For 20 years as CEO of the company, I've been inviting these guys to my house. When he sat in front of me, I told him this: I don't have any clues about alimony; you can ask me to create better opportunities to earn, I'm able to create them, but if you're trying to figure it out, you're not gonna find it here. In order for me not to be misunderstood, I am not telling you this to brag to you just to show you that you need to find a system and pressure. And yet, we have various servants who could have done this a long time ago. It's just that I know public people who have no shame, they name themselves public persons, and they don't pay, ladies and gentlemen, basic things, and that's the moral obligation of every father to his children. And were these people branded? Not at all! I worked with my company for several years with our neighbors in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no handshake for such a guy, there's no ostracism, no stigma in the environment. There's such a thing as ours. A million people, and we're still wondering how to bite it. I didn't follow the indicators like that, but I can thank you, Minister, if there is real progress. Except he doesn't do... There is no system, Minister, and this system must be created. We can afford to have prosecutors running after CODE in the morning, and we can afford to get demonstrators out in the morning and punish them, but we can't afford to do what you have to do. This is the shame and disgrace of our nation! To conclude, Minister, I would like to ask that the amendments of my previous speakers be taken seriously by the senators. It's really helpful for you to understand in the finance department that this is a nationwide problem. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u329	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Rulewski, second appearance. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that I am following Senator Komarnicki, because he is provoking me to say about these elements of the plan, which is developed in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, and which is not adopted by any of the ministries, nor by you, Mr.Swedish Minister, nor even more by Minister Ziobra. And it is worth saying here, referring to all those, including me, who support demographic policy, that the solution to this system is also part of prodemographic policy. Because how can parents in general behave under conditions where the state, the guarantor of the family, allows so much to escape the obligations enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in the Constitution and in the laws established? How many mothers will decide to have more babies? And this shame does not consist of, by no means, the action of public authorities, many governments. This shame is also made up of what is not in Europe. Even if there are many divorced families in Denmark But not only in Denmark, in many countries of Western Europe, there is even a growing trend there is one at a higher level, that children have assigned parents. We have a record of informal relationships where children don't have parents. Yeah, they haven't seen them and they won't see them, not just in physical form, but even if I say so, in maintenance form. It is worth noting that prodemographic policy must capture not only positive tendencies that inspire family growth, but also brakes that interfere with it. And now finally, because time allows me what else the system we're talking about contains. Well, it contains very unpleasant things that the oppositionist, especially the total one, should not report. We are aware that this fight should be open, not led only by government forces, the self-government, which is actually today the main controller. Because it's worth noting that this is the only fund that, so to speak, no face, no natural person assigned to it. That's a record. in the budget. No one's taking care of him. We all uncritically assume that this is going to be 1.5 billion, and then we wait, see if the community can solve all of this. That's what's in the proposals, too. And we propose that it be the same as in other countries, where such a fund has a face, it has a host. But I'm going back to the fact that even a change in the system from this current court-martial not to cover such a wave For another system, I'd say, judicial and administrative, it doesn't solve the problem. He's not gonna solve the whole problem. I'm saying it upstairs. On the other hand, Senator Komarnicki, finally an employer, will create an obstruction in the case of people whom he spoke so nicely about. Yeah, let's start with that. Recently, the Minister, you, too. They voted on my amendment, which extends the pursuit of alimony from 3 to 10 years. Today you can wait for 3 years, survive without paying alimony in the UK or even in Poland It's not hard. To remove maintenance obligations after that. What do I suggest next? Extension, yes, but, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with us, the representative bodies in the Seym, the Senate, the council, the officials, the public trust professions. It is a matter of introducing into the various provisions the grounds for extortion of money 'Cause that's what you might call it. From the Alimentary Fund, we are excluded from the list of trustworthy people. It's not hard. Either you're paying or... we're finally making a commitment to the law, much less to the children. Next case. We're not here, especially in the countryside. And there are people out there, farmers who don't pay alimony, capital charges, mortgages. Businesses cannot be wagered. I understand that they cannot be murdered through a bailiff, but you can secure shares in these farms, whether agricultural or other. Come on, ladies and gentlemen. That's what happened, let's go back to this: there is no passport unless you leave protection for children in the country. Next: the question is that you can't collect your pension from your pension because it's going to be small. Well, it's understandable that if someone's ducking, they're ducking so they don't make a lot of money. Then I suggest you take up retirement capital. And finally what's in the labour law. Well, that's where the fines are provided for the performance of the obligation, e.g. concerning the remuneration or execution of an order to avoid danger at work. In PiP, it's an inspector. Why can't it be like this with us? Finally, the issue Last one, ladies and gentlemen. That I haven't talked about yet. Nobody really knows. Although maybe the Minister will correct it in his next speech. - What's the size of it? we support other countries with regard to maintenance. As you know, state support may be used by a person who is unable to identify the place of residence working outside the State. Nor will the bailiff get there, despite mutual legal arrangements between the countries of the European Union. But the court will rule whenever the place of residence and the place of work is identified... However, since it is sometimes difficult to find them, the Polish state takes over the obligations of the employee. Read more: The taxpayer of a Pole who, to put it graphically, works for the Queen of Britain or Mrs Merkel. So we're paying for them. I would like to know, Minister, how wide this phenomenon is. I'd like to know that from the Minister of Justice, who handles these cases as coordinator. I'd like to believe that, as part of our concept, the Alimentary Fund... that the office will deal with such matters, count, pursue, sign contracts. And there's not a very small number of people who've been averted, but we're replacing them. And finally, the last question... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] I'm sure you'll do me a favor... Ladies and gentlemen, the most regrettable and shameful thing... [[Uh...]] ...i.e. the issue of disabled children. These are children who are raised by a single parent who is generally not working because she has to take care of him... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and he has increased needs, recognized by the court. [[Mr. Senator...]] After all, a child in this system... I'm almost done. Last sentence. A child in this system is treated the same as a healthy one, and that is not true. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u331	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted by Senators Mieczysław Augustyn and Jan Rulewski. There was nothing on the record? No. Good. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1045 and the report of the committee In print No 1045 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to you a summary of the work of the Health Committee, which, as your marshal said, was to issue an opinion on the law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of healthcare. The primary objective of this law is to clarify the rules for issuing e-direction, which have already been called e-direction, and to use it in a public-funded healthcare system, as well as to amend the rules for creating and monitoring waiting lists for healthcare, i.e. queues for health services. This law amends or modifies 10 laws. The most important changes are changes to the Public Health Services Act and the Health Information System Act. With such an important point... The Act is to a large extent, it can be said, a technical one, which is intended to allow for the smooth introduction of pilotage first and then the dissemination of the use of electronic referrals, as well as the improvement of the functioning of the queues. It can also be said that it is intended to adapt all of this to the increasing use of cyber-solutions in the health system, under the so-called umbrella. platform P1. In addition to this, and in principle to support this, the Act also provides for some support for one group of entities in the health care system, such as pharmacies, both individual ones as well as pharmacy owned by entities such as. companies. This support is PLN 3 000 500 tax credit for a post at the pharmacy to deduct expenses that are related to adaptation to IT in the health care sector. As I said, the law also introduces various technical rules on queues. The law by a majority of committee members was highly rated. It is appreciated that this is another step towards computerization of health care, which cleans up many different elements, improves the quality of care, and It also makes it possible to plan and control what is happening in the healthcare system. One could say that the discussion focused on two issues. One is the possibility of deduction of expenditure on computerisation for other entities in the healthcare system, for healthcare providers. Such an amendment was also proposed at the level of the Sejm, and it was not supported in the Sejm. And the second thing that was introduced here and also discussed is the obligation of daily reporting of queues by healthcare providers who have contracts with the National Health Fund, instead of the existing obligation to report it once a week. By shortening my report, I would like to say that it is precisely with regard to this second solution that an amendment has been tabled. The Commission first voted on the proposal put forward by the President and supported by a representative of the government to adopt a law without amendments. This conclusion was not received by the majority. This amendment was therefore put to the vote, abolishing the obligation to report queues every day for at least weekly queue reporting and introducing several such regular changes. This amendment has obtained a majority. It was then put to the vote as a whole, together with this amendment, and received a majority of the votes in committee. I therefore ask the High Senate, on behalf of the committee, to adopt a law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care together with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u333	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have a government representative with us today, Minister Janusz Cieszyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Good.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u334	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to speak very briefly because, as far as the subject of this law is concerned, the subject was very comprehensively presented by Senator Radziwiłł. I would just like to clarify, because indeed this law was adopted by the committee with an amendment. And I would like to justify from this point of view why the government does not support this amendment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, now the National Health Fund through the portal, at: appointments.nfz. gov.pl, provides all interested with information about when is the nearest deadline for providing a given type of benefit. And I even took the liberty of checking the current status of the data before entering the podium. It's December 13th. A very popular type of advice, which is of particular interest to patients, is endocrinological advice. I, ladies and gentlemen, according to the data currently available on this portal Data to be provided by the healthcare providers themselves The nearest date when such advice can be obtained in the territory of the Mazowieckie voivodship, that is, 5 December this year. It sounds absurd, but this is unfortunately the quality of the data and the victims of this poor quality of data are the patients. In view of this, the proposal adopted by the Government and adopted the Sejm, there is such a principle that information on the forthcoming dates is given every day. So this information is up to date. But at the same time, bearing in mind that despite the considerable efforts of the government to support the computerization of the health system, there are still points on the health map of Poland, where technical possibilities would make such a reporting obligation extremely burdensome every day, we have introduced the possibility for the director of the National Health Fund to provide such a I don't want to say relief. The temporary applicability of the current rule, i.e. weekly reporting. And in our view, this is a better approach, because the general principle will be that of daily reporting. It will really be a chance to provide up-to-date data for any entity that has an office system. And in the event that these technical possibilities are not available, there will also be an option that day by day such an additional obligation will not arise, because, as I have already said, Dear Members, This is not something that the Minister is primarily interested in, it is not something that is primarily interested in the National Health Fund, it is information that goes to the patient first of all. And in our view, it is extremely important that this information is as reliable as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u335	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[There are no volunteers.]] No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took the liberty of taking the floor, although it is late, because at the last meeting of the Health Committee there was an event that should be ordinary, but in the reality of this term it was to some extent exceptional. Many times and from this tribune, and elsewhere we have heard that health should be cross-party, apolitical, should not touch politics at all. And you have to agree with that. In connection with the discussion about a useful, good law, but one on which the efficiency of the system depends certain overload of staff, certain IT equipment... Not until it's all played together, it's gonna work fine. That's why we tabled the strict amendments. the substance that Senator Radziwiłł presented in his thorough report. These amendments have been accepted by the ruling party and by the opposition, which is not the case, you will often admit, and this is due to one simple reason, and these were absolutely pragmatic amendments that meet the expectations of the environment. And that is why we very much ask that these amendments, which do not disrupt the system, which do not subtract anything from this law, take into account. I repeat that it is not often the case that at a committee meeting and one and the other party agree that the amendments will make the bill better. She did not receive the recognition of the amendment I had tabled that the Minister responsible for Health could co-finance in 2019 in the form of a targeted grant up to 50 million of what the Minister mentioned... The point is to level out, so to speak, the IT opportunities of those who are well equipped, and those who are less equipped with IT. In particular, I am referring to outpatient specialist care, which is heavily burdened and in a sense is the Achilles heel of the whole system. I don't want to develop this thread. Those who use the help of specialists, and those who work in these clinics, know it well. I therefore propose an amendment to allocate a certain amount of up to 50 million to improve the purchase of IT equipment and software and the cost of necessary training in non-business medicinal products, etc. And the request to include this amendment, in addition to the very sensible and deliberate amendments that Senator Radziwiłł was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u337	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The senator has already filed... Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The text of the act is contained in print No 1041, and the report of the committee In print No 1041 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u338	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators, number four! It is my honor to present a very simple... [[What about me?]] Excuse me, number six, because I have to count the marshal... the marshal... [[There are seven people with the senator.]] Yeah, seven. It's a digression. I want to present a relatively simple law, the content of which concerns actually the fact that members of the board, treasurer and secretary of the metropolitan union were included in the public office, because only in 2017, in mid-year, such a metropolitan union was created by the law and it is the Upper Silesian-Zębian Metropolis. In fact, the amendment of the Law on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990, which is dated 18 October 2006, actually boils down to this. And there's basically nothing more to add here than the fact that the person who's going to notify the right people of the obligation to make a judgment statement is going to be a voivode. Whoever fails to comply with the obligation to make a judgment statement will lose his job That's what I'm gonna call it. At the same time, the relevant paragraph of this law states that, despite the fact that some persons had previously made a illustrative statement, for the second time, they do not have to do so, but they have to inform the voivode that such a illustrative statement has been made. On Tuesday, 12 December, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration debated this law and unanimously adopted the proposal to adopt this law without amendment, which I also refer to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u339	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Government rep... There's no government representative, he's on his way. Minister Paweł Chezernaker of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration was to be with us. Are there any questions for the Minister? I understand it won't be. Good. Then we're not waiting for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. So I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Messages, Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u340	The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law amending the excise duty Act will take place tomorrow at 8.30 am in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of applications submitted to the Act on Veterans' tombs fighting for freedom and independence of Poland will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on proposals to amend the Law on security of mass events will take place tomorrow at 8.45 in room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the 60th Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services will take place on Friday, 14 December, at 8.15 a.m. in room 182. A meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of healthcare will take place tomorrow at 8.45 am in room 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-senat-68-2.u341	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 55]]
