ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 818 and the committee report In print No 818 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Commission considered a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this law with 3 amendments, which have received unanimous support from committee members. The amendments, as I mentioned, are 3. The first amendment concerns the method of accounting and determining the initial value to be taxed in the leasing of immovable property. This amendment eliminates the doubts that might arise when interpreting the existing provision. The second amendment, which is very expected by the business community, is an amendment that excludes, if applicable, up to 5% the area of the rented building, the revenue generated from this area from the tax we are talking about. This solution is expected, reported by entrepreneurs who were present in the Chamber. In a situation where someone owns a building and rents part of the area, e.g. on an ATM, on a food kiosk, there is no need for it to submit these reports, to be completed. If applicable up to 5% The rented space, the owner of the property will be exempted from the obligations under the law. Finally, the third amendment is the amendment proposed by our Legislative Office. This is a legislative amendment to postpone the date of entry into force of the provision. It's a matter of regulation. 45b. 3c of the PIT Act, so as to correlate the date of entry into force of this provision with other provisions which enter into force from 1 January next year. The 3 amendments presented were adopted unanimously by the committee, as I mentioned. The committee received comments from the National Cooperative Savings and Credits Casino, the Confederation of Leviathan, the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation and the Association of Revisional Housing Cooperatives. Here I particularly wanted to stress that the Association for Audit of Housing Cooperatives strongly supports the change that this law brings, which exempts from income tax the amounts of decommitted loans taken up by housing cooperatives. That's what I call it. an old wallet, several hundred thousand people who would have had to show this write-off as their income if it hadn't been for this provision. So this is a very expected change supported by housing cooperatives. The whole project will probably be discussed by the Minister. I wouldn't want the High House to hear the same thing twice. The project is very beneficial for entrepreneurs and citizens, brings a number of changes, facilities. Here I wanted to emphasize something that was actually undisputed. It is a very expected recovery of 50% of revenue costs for artists. This is a very expected change. I think it would be worth it if the High House unanimously, like the senators at the committee meeting, supported this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Paul Gruza. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The law that we submit results from the need to clarify certain provisions subject to amendments at the end of 2017 and 2018. All the proposed changes are in favour of taxpayers, eliminating a number of doubts which, unfortunately, have emerged in the current legal state. It seemed that we were able to eliminate these doubts with interpretation explanations or general interpretations. However, in order to cut through any discussion, we are introducing a number of changes that are beneficial to taxpayers, which will already be clearly set out in the law and should not cause further concern, further uncertainty. The Act provides for a number of minimum real estate tax facilities, including those amendments recommended by the Commission yesterday. We have an exemption for the payment from the Police Fund for people working with this service. There will be a similar solution to the solutions used for other services. There are rules for games on slots and some other gambling. There are solutions for extending the catalogue of professions benefiting from preferences in the form of 50% cost of obtaining revenues for creators. There is a proposal for depreciations from a donation or a decrease in fixed assets; here we go to family companies, either inherited or donated. There's a correction for incentive schemes. There was a doubt whether this also applies to Polish entities, so we clearly prejudice in the regulations that this is the case, there is no need for a deliberate interpretation of this provision. And there's a change very expected by all borrowers of the old loan portfolio. This year there will be a large batch of redemptions in this area and this will be exempted. We also eliminate the doubt about the contributions of money to companies. According to the purposeful interpretation, this was absolutely not subject to tax, but, in the face of taxpayers' doubts, we clearly prejudice in the legislation that this is the case. So that I am counting on the support of this corrective act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Currently, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute of questioning to... Minister... Are they? [[Yes, they are. Senator Czerwinski does.]] They're here. Then please answer them. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? No. Perhaps there will be one question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the winning tax. So far it has been so that it was a tax charged above a certain amount, the amount of PLN 2 000 280, for all gambling. At the moment in the case of numbers games, lotteries, etc. this limit remains, i.e. He's gonna have to pay the guy who plays Lotto. In the case of games on slots, games in dice, cylindrical games and games in cards such a limit does not exist. Why do you want to relieve those who are addicted to gambling in casinos? In this way you make the situation of the Sports Totalizator worse in a way. Those who win in casinos will not pay tax, and those who win in the Totalizator Sports will pay such tax. That's the first question. This raises great doubts. The second question relates to the taxation of the area, with a tax commonly called the tax on revenue from buildings. So far, it's been paid from the building, which means there's been a limitation. It was paid when the building gave revenue above PLN 10 million. At the moment the tax will be paid when the person will have income above PLN 10 million. Yes? Am I right? Good. Please tell me why you have switched to subjectives out of the limitations of this case. Doesn't it give rise to such a danger that someone, I don't know, will co-opt a pole or two people as poles and become co-owners? Then the person interested will not pay the tax because its revenue will not reach PLN 10 million. Well, it could have been avoided very simply. Namely, there's such a wonderful word... [[Mr. Senator, we're asking questions now, and we're not having a discussion.]] Good. I'll finish the thought. [[Please formulate the question and the Minister will answer.]] Good. Why didn't you use an alternative? There is a word or word that would allow for the application of the restriction and the subject matter. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u7	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u8	Maybe I'll start with the second question. Those changes we're making... This change, which the Senator is talking about in 2019, concerns the elimination of the risk that an entity that may have a very wide portfolio of real estate will maintain income below the limit under consideration, and itself will be as if several times above that limit and will be a professional, very important investor in this area. It was our intention to make commercial real estate business subject to such a minimum tax. With the introduction of a control mechanism at the level of the entity, we are able to impose a fair tax on such an investor. These issues have been the subject of our discussions at the level of the European Commission and we have agreed that, since the minimum tax institution is anti-aggressive tax optimization, this should be the best design here. That is why it is proposed. As for the Senator's first question... We have taken into account the interest associated with the state monopoly in certain areas. The changes were designed so as not to discriminate against this subject matter of activity. I can still explain in writing exactly what I'm talking about. I think the present proposal is a good balance of interest. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Can I ask you a question? I don't think there are any other requests for questions because...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: No. They're here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u9	They're here. I have a slightly broader perspective from here, and I see they are. If you sign up for the next question, go ahead. [[Good.]] Now you ask Senator Boris-Damięcka, and then you ask the senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u10	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to ask you to interpret the article. 22. It's about point 3. It's about winning, it's about releasing 50% of the representatives of different professions. There is a change to the Act in line with the Act in force so far, and the State writes: "Audial and audiovisual production." In the previous law, which I have in my hand, this wording was: What is the difference, then, between the previous wording, where the professions are specified, and where there is audial and audiovisual production. Could this mean that this is a discretionary matter in relation to the proposal to change the relevant authority, or does the wording of the Audial and Audiovisual Production continue to consume these professions? So why aren't they listed as in the previous law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u11	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I have to go back to those two questions because the Minister's explanations didn't explain anything. It was just a sentence that sounded like a translation: this wood is brown, so today is a nice weather. That was more or less the cause-effect relationship. Minister, I asked a very simple question: why didn't you apply the limitations of subjective and subjective? You've disabled the subject, and all you've turned on is subjectives that I think you can override as far as the issue of building income tax is concerned. That's the first line. And the first question, perhaps even more important. Well, don't explain to me that the totalizator will benefit from it if his big winnings are taxed, and every win in casinos, each one, will not be taxed because it's off. Can you logically explain to me how it will positively affect the totalizator's income that it will be possible to win more at casinos because it will be tax-free?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u13	Good. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u14	If I may, I'll answer the senator's question first. Following the adoption of the Act, comments were made on audio production and there was doubts as to whether the wording "audiovisual production' also includes "audio production'. Of course, it has never been our intention to exclude audial production, but we have actually considered that the word "audiovisual" can, as if result in an involuntary reduction and exclusion of audial production, which is, in popular terms, radio. This provision extends this catalogue also to production, let's say, only in the audio layer, i.e. audio production. We add that it is not our intention to exclude those professions mentioned by the senator from this 50-percent benefit privilege. And that's the kind of explanation we're going to give. From our perspective, the whole of these changes will be in the favor of the taxpayer and there is no, so to speak, any step backwards from what was before. As for the senator's question, I'd like to say... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Excuse me, may I ask? I'd like to...]] [[But then, well... now don't interrupt. Yeah, of course I do.]] As far as the senator's question is concerned, there seems to be some confusion here. It's not in any way a tax on income, so the senator is misconstruing the meaning of this tax. This tax results in a minimum flat-rate income which is subject to income tax and is based on the value of real estate. This criterion is quota. It's calculated In this new version foreseen for 2019 At the level of the taxpayer. And it seems that this is the fairest way to reach the subject of taxation, which is obvious profits. It's not income, it's profit, it's income, it's business investments in commercial space, it's commercial real estate. Therefore, I am unable to refer to the allegations concerning the real estate income tax because it is not income tax. As regards the issue of exemption, I would say that here there is a certain equality in taxation, both at the level of slots, online casino games and in the totalizator. There is no discrimination or special privilege here. But we always have to take into account the possibilities, the efficiency and the technique of taxation so that it is even feasible. So that it is proposed to balance the business. On the other hand, the purpose of the fiscus is not to give ruthless preference to one another. This is a very thoughtful proposal. I also know that there is an interest of our monopoly, which has a monopoly in selected areas in this area. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Excuse me, may I ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u16	I'd like to clarify. I read specific points on these tax exemptions, and I see that in this amendment in the case of professions such as... In the case of computer games, activities related to theatre, costumeography, stage design, directing, etc... It's in this article. Article 22 (2) (b) 9b point 1, where individual competitions are mentioned, the State has left this. But it still raises doubts about my and many people doing these professions, which I mentioned earlier, about the fact that the state is exchanging audio and audiovisual productions, not mentioning those professions that were in the previous law. Doesn't that give us the freedom to interpret and... [[But, Senator...]] ...and the right to use... [[Mrs. Senator, the Minister's question is...]] ...from this yield, for example...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u17	Senator, the Minister has answered this question very precisely. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: No, it wasn't...]] He answered. Well, that's the second time he's gonna answer. Good. Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I would ask for a precise answer.]] Senator, the minister answered, I understood... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But this is Mr. Marshal's opinion, I'm sorry...]] There you go, ma'am. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: And I have...]] You can have... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I have the right to have different feelings.]] Okay, I understand that you may have different feelings and impressions. Well, there's another... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I would prefer it was the Minister who answered, not the Senate Marshal.]] But he's already answered such a question, identically asked. Okay, well, I'm not breaking the question, the Minister will answer, but I'd be willing to even repeal it. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u18	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we, who sit on committees that do not deal with it, and have no opinion of the Committee on Culture, have the right to ask questions and have doubts about this matter. Minister, I would like to ask a more general question, slightly referring to Senator Czerwinski's question. I'm talking about the Totalizator of Sports, games, gambling, etc. that fed the Ministry of Culture and, as I recall, the Ministry of Sports. Some of this money was spent... It's always been quite significant money when it comes to the budgets of these ministries. I would like to ask what it looks like right now and whether these changes will have an impact on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u19	Thank you, Senator. Senator Alexander Bobko. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u20	Minister, I would like to ask you about the application of the rules on the cost of obtaining income for academic teachers, because in the last year there have been a lot of misunderstandings and concrete actions... Some universities, supposedly as a result of interpretations obtained from tax offices... At least a few universities have abandoned the calculation of these 50% revenue costs, which has made some of the academics and teaching staff simply have reduced their payouts. So to say, it's done very, very bad blood in the academic community. I'd like to make sure that these regulations determine this. Yeah, I think so. In a perfectly clear way and whether such misunderstandings will no longer take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u21	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u22	Thank you. Senator, I can only repeat that we cannot, even legally, make taxpayers' situation worse during the year. As I say, even from the legal point of view, it is not possible for us to make the situation worse for those who perform the particular stunts you have mentioned in relation to their current situation. I ask you to understand that these changes are only in favor of... And we expand this catalogue by a few professions that seemed to be covered, but were not, by law in the previous content. As far as settlements with other resorts of the totalizator are concerned, this is not the subject of the bill that we propose. And the professor's salary. Again. From the perspective of 2017 and the changes for 2018 it can be said that what happened was only an extension of the privilege as regards the amount which can be recognised as this cost 50% Well, privileged, I'd say, a creative element of the work. No other rules relating to the settlement of this privilege have been amended. In 2017, and many, many years before, in order to benefit from this privilege, it was necessary to properly document that we are dealing with a work, not with an activity deprived of this creative element, a creative character with which this privilege has been associated since the beginning of its existence in the law. What happened in 2017 for 2018 was only a quota increase in this limit, which was limited in the previous term of the Sejm and in the previous government. Therefore, in principle, we have not changed the conditions, I would say, to enter this privilege, but only to increase its scale in quota terms. And now I am. If we have a question about whether a given privilege should be documented, I will say that, unfortunately, we have our provisions on evidence in administrative and tax proceedings and it is clear that the exercise of the privilege must involve some documentation justifying that privilege. Such decisions, including the NSA, have been issued for many years, and so here it is sure that, as I say, the stability of the approach to this problem. It is established in the case law of the courts and interpretations and is difficult to discuss with it. Well, every privilege has to have some kind of material substrate out there in the form of some kind of proof. Right? The scale of proving that this is a work, proving this creative element, of course, is the object of getting along. We are planning a meeting with the environment in the coming days to sit on this subject again. I repeat once again that from 2017 to 2018 nothing in terms of evidence has changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, and then Mr. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'm sorry that I'm still insisting on these two questions about income tax on fixed assets being buildings... Maybe we should just leave it at that and focus on the issue of winning tax. Minister, you said this sentence that when all the high winnings in gambling were taxed By high wins I understand more than PLN 2,000 280. It was less equal than what you are proposing. It's supposed to be the same now, because in numbers games, lotteries, telebingos, etc. The winnings will be taxed, and in casinos, i.e. in the case of slots, card games, dice games, they will not be. It's supposed to be the same now, isn't it? First everything was the same tax and it was less equal, and now it's going to be 2 groups, it's going to be a clear division, and it's going to be the same. Please explain it to me logically, because I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u25	Okay, thank you very much. And Senator Bobko. I'll go back to Senator Czerwinski. I understand that the Minister has declared a written reply... [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Okay, here you go.]] I don't know if that includes the scope of the answer you're about to give or not, but I'm just reminding you. Senator Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u26	I would still like to ask, because I understand that... Well, I also know that formally in the regulations nothing has changed, but in fact something has changed, because in several places in Poland, in several universities or in universities, the application of this provision has been waived and some employees have been paid less. I have my answer to that question, but I'm curious if the Ministry has analyzed it and whether the Ministry has any answer to the question about the cause and nature of this phenomenon. Those provisions, which have been applied for about 20 years, suddenly ceased to be applied by some. The Quaestors say there's been a change here after all. There are some signals. I don't know what to call it, changing the interpretation of these rules by some tax offices in Poland, without changing the rules themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u27	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u28	I declare in writing the answer to the senator's questions, explaining precisely the accent proposed in the act on the taxation of gambling. As far as these changes are concerned, let me put it this way: the tax authorities act in accordance with the law understood as interpreted by the highest judicial authorities. And we, in trying to maintain the coherence and rationality of this system, are simply acting in accordance with the current case law, and this case law clearly states the need to properly document all privileges, including those relating to works in the case of these academic professions in higher education. Of course, we can talk about the scale of this documentation and its precision. Different universities use different ways of documenting this. Some more precisely document this, some less. We are about to open a dialogue with this environment to find out why some universities considered it necessary to change their tax approach. Nor does this change the fact that this privilege can also be properly documented in private settlement and benefit from this 50% cost of income.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u29	I don't see any more volunteers. Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Doesn't anyone sign up for the discussion? Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017. I would like to welcome the President of the National Judicial Council, Mr Leszek Mazur, present at the Senate meeting. The text of the information is contained in print No 772. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 19 April 2018 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to ask President Leszek Mazur to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u30	Gentlemen of the Marshals! High Izbo! In order to comply with the obligation laid down in Article. 4th Act on the National Judicial Council I would like to present information about the activities of the Council in the previous year, in 2017. I would like to point out that this is a report that concerns the activities of the Council in a different composition and under a different leadership. I mention this to highlight the formal nature of my speech. It's not mine. I'll tell you what. The author's presentation, only the presentation of the information prepared and adopted in March this year by the previous National Judicial Council. It seems to me that the start of the presentation of appropriate information, including a large number of statistical data, should be preceded by a discussion of some legislative and legislative amendments which were launched in May last year. Such a fundamental finale was found in December 2017 and their introduction in the current year led to a change in the structure formula of the National Judicial Council as regards its appointment and composition and had an impact on the activities of the National Council in 2017. The first law, dated 11 May 2017, limited the powers of the National Judicial Council as regards the appointment of judicial assistants, narrowing these powers to the possibility of objecting. It can be said that there was a battle in this area at the turn of October and November 2017, associated with opposition to 252 assesors. But I'm going to go ahead and put it this way. Other amendments, which were introduced by the Act of 11 May, limited the powers of the Board in such a way that the number of members appointed by the Board to work in the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was reduced from 3 to 1. The competences for the headmaster of this school have been somewhat broadened and the right to review the director's dismissal has also been granted. Previously, this competence was limited only to the opinion of his appointment. The possibility of using the IT system in the review procedure for judges was also envisaged, with a view to improving and speeding up the procedure. And indeed, this effect has been achieved. The consequence of this provision was the development of detailed rules of procedure for the action of the National Council, which provided for the use of this electronic system. The main stage of the change was initiated by the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 20 June 2017. Two essential legal provisions have been recognised as non-constitutional. One contested provision concerned the way judges were appointed to the National Council in the self-government formula, the other concerning the understanding of the term of office. The Court takes the view that the term of office should be common and not individual. The implementation of the indications contained in this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal led to the presentation of draft laws on 12 July 2017. It was a law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council, which provided for very fundamental changes. The first one concerned the procedure and granted the Sejm the right to appoint judges to the National Council in place of this local authority. The next one concerned systemic issues, providing for 2 separate meetings within the Council, a quite complicated way of proceding, in particular counting votes, and the termination of the legal relationship with all the employees of the Office of the National Judicial Council. The broader discussion of these provisions is not justified because this law has been vetoed by the President and has not entered into force. However, amendments to the General Court Law of the same day entered into force, on 12 July, which had 2 judicial changes concerning this issue, which I am presenting with one fundamental and one secondary. This fundamental issue concerned the disenfranchising of the Board's powers in the procedure of dismissing and appointing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. The latter matter concerned only an information obligation vis-à-vis the Minister of Justice in the event of a request for a return to his previous post by a judge who submitted an office in connection with the exercise of other functions, e.g. to perform some function in international organizations. Following a veto to the Act of 12 July, the President submitted a draft law which was passed on 8 December and defined a model for the functioning of the Council by conferring the powers of appointing 15 judges to the Sejm and establishing the term of office as a joint one. These are the two basic, systemic solutions. There are 3 more procedural solutions to improve the transparency of the board This was the answer to some of the demands in this regard. and to improve its activities. It introduced an obligation to broadcast plenary meetings of the Council on the Internet, the possibility to vote in the so-called. circulation mode and an additional issue, namely the obligation to obtain the opinion of the Minister of Justice for each so-called. It's a personal matter. And these were the fundamental changes that defined the Council's model of functioning. As far as the composition is concerned, the board in 2017... Well, I'm not going to read all the names here, I'm just going to make two comments about this composition. Of the 25 seats since November 2017, 1 mandate was left vacant after the expiry of the term of office of Judge Preneta-Ambicka. The failure to set up this mandate was an expression of a certain temporaryity and expectation of the implementation of the legislative amendments to the National Judicial Council, and the expression of the duration of the Council in a certain agreed composition was that 9 judges out of 12 fulfilled their second term of office. The Council carried out its duties through the activities of standing committees, four committees, and five problem committees. Maybe I'll mention the press spokesperson in addition. This was the role of Mr Waldemar Żurek, and the deputy was Sławomir Stick. I am talking about this because, on the occasion of the information presented by Judge Dariusz Zawistowski last year, he explained some doubts to Members of Parliament, who is the face of the council, whether he as chairman or a press spokesman. And I think he's accepted the fact that the face of the board because of your frequent contact with the media is the press spokesperson. The Council delegated its members to work in certain external entities: Judge Krzysztof Wojtaszek took part in the contest for the judge's application, the judge Ewa Preneta-Ambick took the judge's examination. Here, the powers of the board have also changed, because ultimately a member of the board has been deprived of the status of an examiner or one of the examiners, leaving him only the competence of an observer. One additional function, albeit less intensively performed, was to participate in the ruling committee on violations of public finance discipline. The board member's participation here is only optional. The basic statistical information on the activities of the Board shall be as follows. The Council held 18 plenary meetings in 2017, lasting 57 days. She has submitted requests to the President for the appointment of Judge 99. There were 464 teams to be consulted. There have been 110 meetings with candidates, court presidents, visitors. For a fuller picture it is worth to give some data for comparison with last years. As far as the number of meetings is concerned, there are no changes here, this number is similar in 2015, 2016 and 2017 with between 17 and 20 meetings, the number of session days is 57, 58 and 60. But in principle, the number of people appointed to the President as candidates for judgeship has decreased. Now it is 99 people, in previous years it was almost 4 times larger. This reduction in work involved the Minister of Justice's not declaring the vacant judicial positions, which was needed to run the nomination procedures. The number of notifications identified and the number of days of team work have also decreased substantially. I will not provide such detailed statistics on the work in this area of the Council's activities in relation to these personal matters, because these are tabular data which, of course, cannot be presented in such a speech. But I'm gonna close this piece of information with the final step that ends the appointing procedure. Persons who have not been designated to serve as judges shall have the right of appeal. These appeals shall be made to the Supreme Court. Such appeals to the Supreme Court were filed with 35. In substance, 34 have been identified. One procedure has been terminated. 31% were taken into account These actions, which gives the so-called. the stability of the Council's case-law in this respect at around 65%. And it should be assessed as high. This battalion, which I mentioned about assesors, consisted in the fact that on 13 October 2017 one collective request was received by the Council to entrust these assesors with responsibilities. There have been controversy over the completeness of the dossier on which such objections were assessed and expressed. These controversys on the line between the National Council and the Ministry of Justice led to the fact that on 30 October, the Council adopted 265 resolutions in secret voting to object to these submitted assesors. But then she leaned over the whole case once again and after the successive addition of this documentation by the asessors or candidates for the assessors, she set up teams that had re-evaluated it, and there was a resummation of votes on these resolutions. And on November 17, 252, the objections were lifted. The main motives of these objections were the failure to present documents on health status, the failure to document the opinion of the judge or a legal controversy about how the articular recording of the application should be understood. This was the possibility, resulting from the literal wording of the rule, that this is about the application at the national school, while some of the candidates legitimized this application performed in another kind of formula, i.e. outside the school. There was also a controversy regarding the criterion of impeccable character. The Council stood on such a quite formalistic, or perhaps it would be better to say: a rigorous position and thought that traffic offences to a greater extent make it possible to deny this impeccable character. Some comments on this issue have recently been formulated by the Supreme Court in decisions which, however, are more liberal in their approach to this issue. Appeals in this respect have been taken into account. I will not bore you here with issues of retirement, a changing legal state in this regard. I will stop by the information that the number of judges retiring was 33. In relation to 9 persons, such a request was refused. In this respect, 4 appeals were lodged and 3 were taken into account by the Supreme Court. It is evident that this is a very controversial and debatable issue. The second main area of activity of the Council, apart from these personal issues, is the opinion of legal acts. And here the basic information is that in 2017 the Council gave an opinion on 138 legal acts. In previous years, this figure was 200 and 218, so there is a reduction in it here. But in my opinion, this does not show a reduced intensity of work in this area, because if you look at such a fundamental area of opinions on code laws, you can see that their number has not changed. In 2016, there were 30 of them, in 2017, 29 of them almost the same. This reduction appears to be due to the adoption of an additional procedure whereby the President's preliminary assessment is already taking place in such a judgment as to whether the project falls within the scope of the opinion of the National Council, i.e. whether it relates to the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges. In order to prove that such doubts may arise, I will only, for example, recall some of these opinions... of these projects which have been presented. It was here, for example. amending the Act to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases, the Animal Protection Act, restrictions on working in commercial establishments or the amendment of the Act on socio-professional farmers' organisations. Of course, there may be provisions in each of these laws that provide for some administrative decisions, an appeal procedure and a procedure which, in a very broad sense, can somehow be linked to the question of independence and independence, and thus what the National Council is dealing with, but with a more adequate assessment already at the stage of the President's evaluation, it can be established that such a relationship does not exist. This significantly accelerates the procession and reduces the scope of work, which ultimately turns out to be unnecessary, because the teams that they think and then the council itself comes to the conclusion that the project does not fall within the interest of the council. The Council held a position on various issues in 2017. These positions were occupied due to a rather intense discussion on the National Council and the judiciary, changes in the judiciary. These were positions concerning e.g. statements on the assets of the judges, the position on the congress of lawyers, on the absence of announcements by the Minister of Justice of vacant positions, on the actions of the prosecutor's office presenting significant threats to the independence of the judge, on the appeal of the vice-presidents of the District Court in Warsaw, on the crossing of administrative borders by the Minister of Justice, on the dismissal of the governors and vice-presidents of the courts It's all in general. and statements by the President of the Council of Ministers on the judiciary. The competence of the National Council is also to ask the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of the laws with the Constitution. In 2017, the Council did not, on the contrary, withdraw 4 applications previously submitted on 8 March 2017 concerning the Act on the Prosecutor's Office, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the supervision of the Minister of Justice of the courts and the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts. The Council also acted in the field of international contacts or contacts with other organisations. She has honoured 69 people, 69 retired judges with a medal of merit for the Justice dimension, and an additional group of persons, judges who are not retired judges, in gratitude for their commitment to the democratic rule of law, the protection of the principle of three divisions of power. This was about Mr Jürgen Pansegrau, President of the General Court of Brunswick, Mr Kees Sterk, Vice-President of the Court of Justice of the Netherlands, Bishop Tadeusz Pieronk and Judge Irena Kaminska, formerly President of the Jury Association of the Court of Justice of the Netherlands, and now representing the Association of the Miss. In addition, seven others were awarded this medal in connection with the celebration of the century of the reborn judiciary: Mr Maciej Bobrowicz, President of the National Council of Legal Counsels; Ms Nuria Díaz Abad, President of the European Network of Judicial Councils; Mr Nils Engstad, President of the Consultative Council of European Judges; Mr Thomas Guddata, President of the Association of MEDEL; Mr Krystian Markiewicz, President of the Association of Polish Judges; Mr Danuta Przywara, President of the Board of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights; and Mr Jack Trela, President of the General Bar Council. The National Council held several conferences, among others. The participation of citizens in the administration of justice, a conference of challenges for the Polish judiciary in the 100th anniversary of its rebirth. The Council's seat also initiated the activities of the Judicial Cooperation Forum. Shortly, I will also point to the work of the international council. The Council shall organise an exchange programme, so-called. the judicial training network. Meetings took place with the Swedish ambassador, Belgian ambassador, the first secretary of the Dutch embassy, also with the UN special envoy for the independence of judges and lawyers. I'm not going to present any other meetings. There are a number of different forms of activity here, ranging from state celebrations to local celebrations or local events that have some connection with the justice system. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u31	Thank you very much. Stay here, Mr President, because there may be more questions for you. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr Leszek Mazur a question? I'm asking this usual question. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask the President two questions. First. Do you agree with the opinion expressed in the information? I'll quote a short passage. That in 2017 the Act on the National Court Register was partially amended several times. In the Council's view, some of the changes relevant to the functioning of the Council are contrary to the Constitution. The Council expressed this in its opinions and positions, a significant majority of which were ignored. In the Council's view, some of the solutions put in place are in line with the principle of the threefold division of power. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 173 of the Constitution), principle of judicial independence 178 of the Constitution) and the principle of independence and separation of courts 173 of the Constitution). Does Mr President agree with this opinion? And second question. In 2017, several laws, which concerned the powers of the National Council, were amended by weakening the powers of the Council. This is the Act on the National School of Sadition and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which has been deprived of the Board's competence to assess the qualifications of applicants for appointment as an asessor. And these are two other laws: on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, or which deprives the National Council of competence to... properly eliminating the National Council from the procedure of appointing and dismissing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the General Courts... In the opinion of the President, do these changes in legislation strengthen the political position of the National Council or weaken it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u34	Thank you. I would like to ask you about these letters of support for the candidates, because the state As far as I am aware and remember, they adopted such a position at one of the last KRS meetings that the disclosure of names is unconstitutional. In the meantime, I know there's an attempt on some projects... In other cases, such letters of support shall be disclosed. Please explain this position of the National Judicial Council and tell us what you are ashamed of, why these names cannot be disclosed. It's completely incomprehensible, I'm talking about the social perception of it. Something like this happened for the first time. I'm counting on you guys to come clean and reveal those names. I'd like an explanation. And right away, quick second question. I would like to ask whether disciplinary action will be initiated against the members of the new KRS for the kind of wording that fell at the meetings, such as: throwing pearls in front of pigs, this is a matter of discussing... Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz, the messenger... [[Mrs. Senator...]] ...a member of the KRS... [[Senator Stanisław Gogacz: Report last year.)]] [[Ms Senator, Mr President, provides information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017. I ask that the questions relate to this period. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much, but let me draw your attention to the fact that the judge himself has revealed some information about this year, so that I am referring to what the judge has said, and I have the right to do so. And I'd like to ask you questions. And the second sentence is, "Majcku, wipe the chair after the crane." This is also due to the disclosure of these recordings from the meetings of the National Judicial Council... [[Mrs. Senator...]] ...publicity can now get acquainted with such conversations. Please refer to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u35	Thank you. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome. Mr. Senator, you're maintaining your desire to ask a question, aren't you? [[Why shouldn't I?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You have such a doubting face.]] Because you weren't in the O.R. when you were in line. There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask you who called you on the National Judicial Council. 'Cause a little bit following Senator Zdrojewska's questions... Well, since we don't have access to information about other members, at least I'll use your presence in the O.R. to highlight it. Secondly, I would like to ask you how you feel about the unconstitutionality of the election of the members of the board elected under the law that broke the constitution. We've talked a lot about this. At least it's an article. 10, which assumes the balance of the authorities and their division, namely check and balance, and art. 187 of the Constitution, which refers to the composition of the National Judicial Council, and to the article. 186, which tells us what the tasks of the National Judicial Council are. I would remind you that the point here is that the National Judicial Council was set up to uphold the independence of the judiciary. I talked about all this in the debate... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...in December 2017 I'd like your opinion on... [[Thank you very much...]] ...the unconstitutionality of this legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u37	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u38	This last question, as if duplicates the question that was asked first, concerns the question of the contradiction of the law with the constitution. I can say that the question of constitutionality is competence. The Constitutional Tribunal. In this respect, there was such a specific evolution, quite characteristic. I have been working in the profession for 30 years and for years after the Constitutional Tribunal after 1980, in the 1990s, started such an active activity, judges were taught on various basic trainings: since the constitutionality of the laws is assessed, the Constitutional Tribunal is the Constitutional Tribunal, and if, in the course of the application of the law in judgment, the judge takes any doubts in this regard, the proceedings are suspended and asks the Constitutional Tribunal a question. Speaking of evolution, I was referring to the reversal in recent times of this shaped and established direction of thinking, which is to formulate the concept of so-called. distributed constitutional control, meaning that practically it is the judge ruling in any case that the constitutional control of the law itself can carry out. Well, this kind of situation leads to something that is highly inappropriate in applying the law to uncertainty, although it can also be described with much more categorical terms. With regard to what Senator Klich mentioned, namely the check and balance principle, she... In two words: there is a rule here described, which has already been written and said a great deal, but this principle has many formulas and ways to implement it in practice. In the case of Polish practice, when it comes to this issue of the division of authorities, it has recently been made clear that the division of authorities does not mean any definitive separation of authorities, but a whole range of relationships between them, which offer the possibility of interaction and balance. Consequently, the powers of the legislative authority are conferred In fact, the limited competence to appoint judges to the national judicial council, but among the judges, and the judges who have obtained the support of other judges, because this is the formula of this choice and this indication, in my opinion, represents a very good example of the practical implementation of this principle not only of division but also of cooperation. As for the issue of the fact that the previous National Council had a negative opinion on the projects in constitutional terms, I can comment on this in such a way that my private opinion or opinion as President of the Council has a very limited contention here, because this is about information... This concerns the behaviour of the previous Council, which either negatively assessed the projects with such justification, or even limited constitutional control, questioning the legitimacy of the Constitutional Tribunal, as this is evidenced by the withdrawal of 4 applications on 8 March 2017. Furthermore, since the Council has adopted a resolution on such an opinion, it is, in my view, unnecessary and unacceptable to have an additional opinion on this opinion by the President. The previous council took such a position... Besides, it is only an opinion, because the final decision on one or another form of law is taken by the legislator and for him the opinion of the National Council is not binding. But it is essential that the Constitutional Court evaluates constitutionality. On the issue of reducing the powers of the Council Whether it is those related to the competence to take part in judicial examinations or to the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, or finally to the appointment or dismissal of the Presidents of the Courts, this is a matter which concerns several different issues. In some parts it is historical, because changes were an expression of abrasion and shape of different concepts, and the legal state that has finally evolved, and that only in recent months, does not mean any significant limitation at all. On the contrary, as it turns out, competence in these last acts is useful to us. I do not consider it important to limit the competence of the board to reduce the number of persons posted to the school's programme board from three to one, because one person is quite enough to present the position of the board in this relatively narrow group and to influence the shaping of the school programme. And taking these exams or pulling the school representatives out of these exams... I think it was because... we're dealing with some confusion here, some conflict of interest. But whether it is possible for the Council to make a plea of lack of objectivity in a situation where persons from its composition take part in the exam and then assess candidates who, after passing such an examination and fulfilling other conditions, are presented and judged by this board... I think this move was a legal move. Letters of support or disclosure of these letters of support... Well, the board has taken a negative stance on the proposal to release a letter of support. Two main arguments were pointed out. One was the possibility of some ostracism and environmental harassment, which involved the temperature of the dispute that had arisen in this context, and what was expressed by the fact that eighteen judges had applied to participate in the new National Council. Calling in 18... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[But don't disturb the President!]] There have been, perhaps, 18 people, indicating the scale of the protest and the pressure on those who would choose to run. Right? So the possibility of harassment and additional emotions in the environment. In my opinion, this argument was justified. There was also a matter of a strictly legal nature, namely that the project provided for the disclosure of these letters, i.e. referring to the past. Thus, this raised the issue of the operation of this law backwards, which could raise concerns about the violation of the fundamental principle of the applicable law or the interpretation of the law. I will also point out that I myself abstained from voting on this issue, but I have often expressed such a view that I do not object to the disclosure of these letters, and I do not mind, although of course I will not do so if the position of the legislator or the Marshal of the Sejm limits the scope of access to the information made available during the procedure for appointing members of the new National Judicial Council, because this is the position I feel bound by. As I say, in my opinion, I abstained from voting. I am of the opinion that, since the matter concerns the appointment of a council, the Council should have no position at all, it should simply leave the matter without an opinion. It's about getting this settled out of our hands. The question of disciplinary action concerning. I do not know if I have understood correctly Mrs Pavłowicz or the behavior at all... [[Judge Johann.]] ...Mr. Judge Johann... [[But this is 2018. Please ask about 2017.]] Here's what I'm gonna say. We are definitely going beyond the framework and formula of my speech, which concerns 2017. And this is about the 2018 meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, this is possibly a matter for assessing, as far as Judge Johann is concerned, first of all by the disciplinary officer, but as regards Mrs Pavłowicz, she is a member of Parliament and I think that if there was anything inappropriate about Mrs Pavłowicz's behaviour, the competent authorities of the Sejm should speak on this matter. There was also a question about who called me in. Well, I think I volunteered, and that's how I initiated this procedure. I've asked for support for... After hearing the conditions to be met, I asked the judges for this support. That's what I got... [[From who?]] From about 54 persons from various courts, mainly regional, but also district, and from 1 judge of appeal. I'm going to explain here right now, because this issue came up in the context of alleged nepotism. My brother, who is the President of the Court of Appeal in Katowice, was asked to explain whether he was trying to obtain support for me in the Court of Appeal in Katowice and did not abuse his function. That's what I'm denying. I will only give one basic information in this regard: from among the judges of the appeal court, which my brother directs, I have received support from 1 person. It's easy to imagine that this person here is going to reveal one person on the list. He's a... he's a... I received support from my brother, as I am saying, considering that some distance from the support he would like to give me would be difficult to explain. [[By exercising my authority, I will ask you to answer this question in writing, which persons have supported the candidacy of the judge.]] I will immediately point out that, of course, I will answer this question honestly. I'm going to name the courts, I'm going to name the numbers, I'm going to name even one name, which I already mentioned, and I'm not going to name any other people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u39	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, second round of questions. Senator Grażyna Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u40	Thank you very much. Judge, I was also a member of the National Judicial Council, and I wouldn't think of it. I think it's another member of the National Judicial Council at the time to the judges. To be afraid of anything or to be ashamed of the list of people who supported... On the contrary. Therefore, I would stress once again that it would be much easier for us to talk today if we knew that you were properly filled. It's just that if you showed me that list... There's nothing to be embarrassed about unless something's wrong. [[Question, please, Senator.]] Now. I'm joining Senator Klich's request to present us with the names of the judges who supported you. And now the question. You said that I refer to here in 2017. That the position of the National Judicial Council was largely concerned with matters of judicial independence, dismissal of presidents and vice-presidents. I have a question: is the fact that most judges are now... As judges and members of the National Judicial Council, you are the subordinates of Minister Ziobra, he calls you up and dismisses you. In your opinion, is this correct and does it make sense to refer to you as the body that has the authority to agree or not to accept such a decision? Second question. Judge, the constitution didn't make up for it. shortening the term of office of former members of the National Judicial Council. This decision was introduced by the ordinary law. Do you not therefore believe that all decisions that will be taken in the National Judicial Council will be liable to be declared invalid, including appeals? If I'm running out of time, maybe I'll make my next round.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u41	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I ask that your questions concern the information that the President has submitted for 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Judge! You said the judge about 2017. The issue of negative decisions against 252 assessors was also raised in the media at the time. Now that you have looked at this procedure, can you, as Chairman of the National Court Register, say whether these decisions had legal grounds for judging the judge or whether it was a matter of malice? Well, I'm interested in your judge's assessment in this area, because a lot has been written about it. And the second question concerns, Judge, the evaluation of the law of last year, the law establishing the KRS. I understand that the matter of the Court, which today has a specific function... I have a personal question: as a judge with 30 years of experience... I just read your resume. As a judge with such experience, do you personally have any doubts about the bill of last year? Could you give us an answer? If you don't, that's fine. And the last question concerns the European Judicial Council Network. Because there was some information. Although it concerns this year, it is related to legislation from last year, because the basis... There may not be a decision yet, but there are discussions and discussions about the European Network of Councils of the Court of Justice and there is information that the European Network of Councils of the Court is considering the exclusion of the Polish Council. Would you mind saying something about that? Judge, are there any such discussions between you and the representatives of the National Council? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u43	Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u44	Judge, let me get this straight. Yes, I have been a member of the National Court Register for two terms in the last eight years, and I have some experience, but I will refer to Judge Johann's opinion, who, when judging the previous National Judicial Council, considered that it acted fairly and had no objection to it. My question is, then, why the change? How do you see it? The second question relates to previous questions. Up until now, being a member of the KRS has been an honor. How do you see the possibility of regaining authority in the judicial community, since these people are ashamed of their support, and since a small number of judges, literally symbolic, have applied to this institution? And the last question that's being asked is your answer. I ask how an authority which is to uphold the independence of the legislative and executive authority can be bound, as you said, by instructions from the Marshal of the Sejm on the non-disclosure of these letters of support. That's three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u45	I give the floor to the President. [[Extracurricularly.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u46	I'll start with the last question. I do not feel bound by the instructions of the marshal as chairman of the National Court or as a representative of the National Council of Courts. [[Well, you said you were tied up.]] [[Please...]] Yeah, but... [[Maybe not the instructions, but the position.]] [[Quiet, please, Senator.]] I felt tied up and still feel tied up as the judge who took part in this appointing procedure. There were certain rules and powers to disclose this information in such a way, and not in any other way had the Marshal of the Sejm. In this situation, it is up to him to make a possible request to reveal these letters, or to the Minister of Justice. Well, I'm not the recipient... I can only be the recipient as a private person, but as the judge who took part... But as a natural person, I don't have to reveal it. I'm not refusing this disclosure as chairman of the council... In this regard, the Council has taken a position and I too must feel bound by this position which we have taken and which, after all, has been adopted in the proper procedure, has been voted out. Therefore, some individual initiatives in this area would be very bad at proving the coherence of the council, the mutual loyalty of those who are part of this advice. As regards the issue of authority and the limited scope of environmental support, I will say yes. I think that the transition from the formula that has been in force so far was a self-government formula, to a formula in which there is some division of competences between the environment, because it is the environment that has candidates to sit in the National Council, i.e. those 15 judges, and this environment meets the requirement of giving them support in a certain number, and the Sejm, because on the other hand it is the competence of the Sejm to choose... This is the competence which properly implements this principle of division and cooperation between the authorities. However, the scale of the contest, you can say, this solution is an expression of the habit of solving the previous, this stricte Local government, but solutions that revealed fundamental shortcomings. They were among them, for example. certain trends, which can be called oligarchic or causing environmental alienation, which was manifested, for example. The fact that the number of judges of the regional courts, whose majority is overwhelming, was quite minimal in these previous cases in the National Council of Courts. There was a situation in one of the board members that the regional judges, which are, say, 7,000, represented one judge. Thus, these proportions were completely shaken, reversed, expressing a completely hierarchical building of this structure, giving it character to the aristocratic fields. Well, it was laughed that the National Court Council was such a House of Lords. But it's said that now it's going to be... [[My Lord...]] [[Lords...]] Yeah, yeah. ...that now it's going to be a House of Commons. [[In the power of Mr. Ziobra and his colleagues.]] Of course, the current composition, which also raises reservations It is precisely because of its uniformity, the advantage of judges from regional courts or also those acting as governors that, if an environment of 10,000 people was able to identify only 18 people, then the choice was necessarily very limited and it is difficult to complain that some of them were presidents. In addition, I can note that the absence in the National Council of more than one member of the District Courts of Appeal or the Supreme Court is due to the fact that these environments or judges from these courts, having the opportunity to make themselves known, 100 percent questioned the new formula and did not come forward, implementing something that can be briefly formulated: the absent are wrong. There was also a statement that Judge Johann had a positive assessment of the work of the previous council. I present the information; as I said, it is not my copyright, I do the statutory duty. I would like to distance myself from making evaluations of the work of the predecessors. I think that the exercise of very many responsibilities, in particular regarding the opinion of legal acts on these nomination procedures to the extent that they have been launched, has been carried out without charge. However, there were also manifestations of activities related to this discussion, the discussion between the judiciary or between the National Council and the legislator on those new solutions that were being tested. And there were various actions or behaviors, positions, resolutions, etc., which are criticized as having a political character. I think so. I wouldn't want to judge that too harshly. In the event of such a dispute and such discussions, it is difficult to delimit the border between actions strictly related to the implementation of the Council's statutory obligations and those which may exceed that political limit, and thus could have occurred. However, it seems to me that judge Johann's assessment of her in detail is a balanced assessment. And it seems to me to be accurate. There was also a question about the possible exclusion from the European Judicial Councils Network. Indeed, there are contacts and quite intense correspondence with this European judicial network. The fact that the work on the assessment of the situation in Poland is ongoing by this network. The position taken by the executive body of this organisation is not satisfactory for us, it requires familiarisation and clarification. I'm just going to give you an example and as part of this summation... It to the pond résumé of this last stage, at which we are in relations with the European Network of Judicial Councils. There was a meeting in Lisbon between the Committee or the executive body, where a summary was drawn up. This summary indicates two countries as such troublemakers Poland and Turkey. Well, this is a setup that must raise doubts about the state of knowledge, whether objective or objective. If the accusations that are made in Poland concern systemic solutions, i.e. issues, well, debatable, whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional... These are of course very important topics, but... [[Unconstitutional...]] [[...are unambiguous.]] Of course. [[Quiet, please.]] These are very important discussion topics. As I said, literature on constitutional control is extremely extensive. Besides, such an element, which shows how far these solutions may differ, is that in some countries there are no judicial councils at all, and somehow... Such countries belong to such countries, for example. Germany, which is not accused of lack of independence or independence. But I return to this list where Poland is in the first place and Turkey is on the second. So I say: the reservations concerning Poland are in the nature of discussions on the solutions adopted by Parliament. And Turkey is mentioned there because a large number of judges and prosecutors have been arrested, one of the judges or prosecutors has died in custody, criminal proceedings are being conducted against the others, which are assessed as objective and unfair, in violation of their fundamental rights. In addition, a very large number of judges and prosecutors were simply fired. We are preparing information that will allow us to compare the situation in Poland and Turkey on this level and assess the appropriateness of creating a list with this kind of list. The talks are ongoing, of course we will be patiently and substantively explaining various aspects which, so far, seem unknown to the public in these countries as well as to some organisations. But this process is similar to that of the Venice Commission, which has also studied the issues of the Constitutional Tribunal for a long time. We are ready to accept any delegation and provide all possible assistance in assessing the situation and any possible information. As far as the question of assailants is concerned, here you can say yes. The National Judicial Council, which launched the procedure for assessing the Minister's joint proposal for the appointment of assesors on 13 October last year and, on 30 October, adopted 265 single-sounding resolutions on opposition, acted in a very formal manner. I cannot say that this was an unlawful way, because these actions were based on the rules of procedure, and above all in the previously adopted practice of action, which was precisely a very rigorous assessment of documentation, conclusions, etc. It is symptomatic that on 30 November, it seems that also under pressure from the public, which had difficulty understanding such an extremely formalistic approach, it bowed down again on this issue, allowed for the addition of documents and, after re-evaluation, repealed 252 of the resolution on opposition. However, this dot over the Supreme Court ruling is that, in 8 or 10 cases, he recognized an appeal against the part of the resolutions in which the objections were not repealed. And there are judgments concerning e.g. this issue of impeccable character in terms of speeding and being punished by mandates. Well, the Supreme Court pointed out that this strict position is not justified, because it can actually be compared to a disciplinary penalty, to be made of office, only in the formula that closes a person's way to this office, because it is eliminated by the appointment procedure. Well, this is a more liberal position, wider one, taking into account some principles of life experience, less formalistic. The solutions for these assesors have actually rolled a certain circle and returned after these various perturbations to the starting point, bringing the procedure for appointing assesors closer to the procedure for appointing judges, i.e. in the absence of opposition since the submission of the list of the National Judicial Board within 2 months, the procedure for assessing the candidate and submitting the nomination shall be carried out. [[Thank you very much... yet, Mr. Chairman? Yes? Do you need any more time?]] I mean, it's still... I'm trying to read my own notes, and I have a problem here... [[There you go.]] It was a repeated question about the disclosure of these letters. I think I've presented my position in a comprehensive way and I can't say anything smarter here. than... anything more specific than what I've already said. [[Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind... the judge in those notes probably didn't read the question. Judge... may I, yes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u47	Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u48	Judge, I asked... Because your judge's argument was that the Constitutional Tribunal is a legal authority or not. And this thread is left behind. And I... [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: About compliance with the Constitution.]] I'm sorry about the constitutionality. And you were talking about the doubt that the judge could always turn if he had doubts... That's why, as I went into doubt, I asked, Judge, did you? As a person with such long experience and achievements as I have just read There is no doubt about the constitutional compatibility of the laws adopted last year in the area of the National Courts of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u49	Do you have anything else to add to these questions, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u50	I mean. Let me say this: if I were to rule and there was such a question, I would really have to settle it and consider whether this is a question that raises doubts. But I say: then I would certainly apply the formula not that I would resolve these doubts myself, in accordance with some new concepts, only to the Constitutional Court. Personally, it's... it's hard for me to give you another answer. I have no doubt, because if I were to make such a statement, I would actually stand aside and not participate in any procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska asks you another question. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u52	Thank you very much. We today, asking questions again, as before, in the case of the last report, when Mrs Przyłębska visited us here, we have a problem asking questions about what is happening and we can ask questions about 2007. In my opinion... [[This Regulation ……]] This Regulation In my opinion, questions about 2017 may be more troubling to you than those concerning the current time when you are the boss and you function here. But I will ask you this question: I ask the judge to present objectively and impartially the documents that were drawn up in 2017 in the National Court Register on the relationship between the National Courts of Justice and attempts by other authorities, including the Ministry of Justice. I am referring to those positions which concern the threat to the freedom of courts and their independence, to the protection of which the National Courts are called. And I would ask you to remind us and present these positions. Thank you. [[They're all on the National Council website.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u53	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska... Oh, no, I'm sorry. Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, while listening to your explanations about your arguments for the fact that this new way of electing members of the National Courts meets all the standards, I have been wondering about one thing. Well, in 2017, these changes were caused by a debate that took place through the media and in which politicians participated, especially from the governing camp. And there, as you recall, the arguments that followed the changes And I would like to say that these arguments were brought out of the mouth of some vice-ministers of justice, some of them, as I recall, are even judges. They were arguments about guyhood among judges, about some alleged conspiracy, about alienation of this superstate of judges. I'd like to ask... Because it was an argument for change. And now I would like to ask whether the judge agrees with these arguments and whether the President feels that it has indeed been so bad in previous years, but especially in 2017, that such a change had to be made. And whether the judges themselves, as they had previously elected their authorities, were unable to select decent representatives, only it had to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u55	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask you about such international legal consequences of such a formation of the National Judicial Council, which, according to the opposition and most often according to the legal environment, has been formed in a way that is not in accordance with the Constitution. This view seems to be shared by the European Judicial Councils Network in a fairly clear way. As you consider in this context, the threat that the judgments of the Polish courts will not be recognised by the European courts, calling into question the mandate to judge those judges who will be pointed out by the National Courts Council, shaped, as I mentioned, in a way that arouses... [[That's what he said...]] ...constitutional doubts not only in Poland, but also in the world?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u57	Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u58	Well, once again, I would like to point out that the discussion about information is a discussion about information for 2017, not a discussion about the creation of a new KRS. These doubts, which led to radical reconstruction or attempts to radically rebuild and improve the judiciary and the KRS as one of its elements, did not arise because something was wrong in 2017, only... For many years, there has been a wave of criticism towards the judiciary that there are no attempts at effective reforms. There is a simple and objective measure of this dissatisfaction with the often cited results of social opinion studies, where the degree of trust or confidence in the judiciary is very low The degree of distrust is, as I recall, 60%. or 70%. As an example, I will mention one of the trainings in 2007 in which I took part, with the participation of Prof. Tadeusz Ereciński, former first President of the Supreme Court, who was then probably the President of the Civil Chamber. In such a colloquial conversation, which was devoted to various events in autumn 2007 and to changing political situations, he raised a question that sounded like a rhetorical question, namely: but why does this judiciary have such a low degree of social trust? It was in 2007. It seems to me that since then, either nothing has changed or there's been a change for the worse. The question was rhetorical and it was an expression of such genuine concern. It was rhetorical because even the President of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court did not know what the solution to this situation was. Therefore, trying to find some sort of inconspicuous solution, some solutions that do not consist in adding further rules, regulations with successive stamps, laying down these various civil, criminal procedures, etc.. Because this is the way to nowhere. That's where she came from... After all, citizens in a democratic state will not change any important element of reality, e.g. in the form of the judiciary, by themselves, because they act through elected Members and Senators. The emphasis on effective solutions in this area was so great that one of the key points of the political agenda was to solve problems in this area. The draft laws on the judiciary and on the National Courts of Justice are an expression of this. As far as I'm concerned... That's what happened to the caste. This phrase, which has gained incredible popularity and social reception as extremely accurate, comes from the very centre of the judiciary of the association of the "Iustitia', whose president, Judge Irena Kaminska, at the extraordinary congress of judges in Katowice, used this phrase. This wording is repeated and reproduced because it seems that it properly and appropriately describes the reception of the judiciary in its current form by society. And it can't be ignored, it can't be ignored by the judges themselves. The question is, who's going to initiate these changes... The question was whether the judges themselves could do it. I will refer again to the very well-known and reproduced argument, which is the assessment that you formulated at the threshold, say, of Professor Strzembosz. He said that the judiciary would purify itself, which was an expression of the attitude towards such a far-reaching self-government, and it was probably also an equivalent of a concept, which he also expressed in another area, Prime Minister Mazowiecki Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, I would also like to draw your attention to the consequences of this closure in my own environment, with a call for far-reaching independence. This is the surrender of judges, each individually, a certain pressure of self-government, because of the various kinds of... the judge is to be bound by his own conscience and law, but if various kinds of organizations multiply, then also there are multiple resolutions, codes of ethics, some kind of binding additional regulations, which later cause the binding of the law and the binding of his own conscience to somehow be undermined. But here I would like to refer to another example that has recently caused serious public interest and even amazement. In some cases, there is an uproar. It was a disciplinary verdict given by the Supreme Court when the issue of theft at a gas station was assessed by the Supreme Court in a way which was so dramaticly different from the common assessment of average people, that it clearly makes it a question mark whether judges look at the world with the same eyes and perceive reality as society does. If there is any far-reaching separation of these perceptions, then society has the right to judge that the judiciary has alienated, broken off and judged the reality completely differently. There was already a formula in Roman law that talked about applying the law in the fullest way and achieving the result in the form of great injustice: summum ius, summa iniuria. It seems that this is also how you can try to describe the problem that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u59	Thank you very much. And the question is now... [[Excuse me, I asked your judge for a performance...]] ...Senator Grażyna Sztark. [[Excuse me, I asked your judge for a performance...]] [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: Yes, yes, yes. Excuse me.]] [[Yes, oh... thank you very much.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u60	Because I was beginning to answer from the end, I forgot what was in the beginning. Well, I was merely selective about the positions taken by the Council in 2017, because I did not want to prolong my speech and keep you in detail. Those posts were 19. Because the Senator's question has come up, I'm gonna bring up all 19 of them. The President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, acting on behalf of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the European Union of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the Council of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the European Union and of the President of the President of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union and of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union and of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union and of the European Union and of the Council and of the Council and of the Council of the European Union and of the Council of the Council and of the European Union, shall of the Council and of the Council of the Council and of the Council of the European Union and of the Council and of the Council of the Council of the Councils and of the Councils and of the Councils and of the European Union and of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union and of the European Union, respectively, respectively, of the European Union and of the Council and of the Council and of the European Union and of the Council of the Are there any further expectations regarding the content of these positions? [[I'm just gonna remind you that I asked you to answer questions about...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u61	Now the question is asked by Senator Shark... [[Senator Barbara Zdrojewska: But no, this is...]] Senator wants to ask you a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u62	I want to ask you something, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, and I'm sorry. Judge, I would like to ask you to further clarify why in 2017. The National Judicial Council considered that there was such a great threat to the independence of the courts that those laws, which at that time passed the parliament and which passed, threatened the addiction of the judiciary in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u63	I think that in this question, in its final part there was an answer: because the National Council in its previous composition considered that there were such threats, it formulated such positions. I would like to remind you that I was not a member of the National Judicial Council of the previous formation, and therefore, aside from providing this information, that such positions were, I am not able to explain it more closely. But if necessary, I can prepare these positions in extenso, obtain them from us in the full version and make them available. These positions contain the content of the resolution, as well as the justification and will allow you to read the recitals. [[Are they still on the website? Because they're supposed to be taken off.]] That they were taken off the website? [[Yeah, because there was a discussion about it at the meeting...]] No, the discussion was an expression of misinformation. Only content that has already been obsolete has been removed from the KRS website as part of the ordering process. And this judicial work cannot be regarded as such content, and it is certainly up to the Council to obtain these positions in the full version.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u64	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u65	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to interrupt, Judge, but you didn't answer my question in the previous... [[President of the Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: If this is the case, it's only because I...]] No, no, I understand, and that's why I'm not questioning whether or not I'm complaining, it's just... [[Judge, the question and then the answer.]] ...I want to repeat that question. I was just asking you that... because you said there were others. positions on the dismissal of Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. And my question is: do you think it is possible to objectively assess a complaint against the National Court Register against the wrongful dismissal of the President or Vice-President of the Court, since most of its members are simply subordinates or former subordinates of Minister Ziobro, and it was Mr Ziobro who dismissed the Presidents? Can't you see the collision here? That's the first question. Second question. You said... It is still about signatures, which confirm your choice as members of the National Court of Justice. You say you refuse to present these letters because of the harassment and the environmental protests. That's why I have a question. There were also judges from your environment who were presented at billboards promoting Poland. They appeared all over the country and talked about the thefts by judges. One of those judges, as it turns out, was schizophrenic and was already dead. Another judge was sick, too. Has the National Judicial Council taken a position on this matter? Did she stand up for the dead and sick people who I'm not talking about judges, I'm talking about people Who's there? You also talked about the fact that only 18 judges out of 10,000 reported access to the National Court Register and therefore we should not ask further questions. Didn't it ever occur to you that the other judges didn't do it because they were afraid of harassment and protesting, but out of ordinary respect for the Constitution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u66	There you go, Judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll answer that. With regard to the objectiveness of the KRS in identifying complaints from the governors or vice-presidents of appeals, this issue is complicated. The legal situation concerning the powers of the Board of Appeal or the appointment of Presidents has changed. There were opinions, and there were those that constituted them. Ultimately, the current state of law in this area is quite different from that in 2017. I would say this: it's not the only way to... if there's even a chance to test this decision. Because you can take the position that if an organ has the right to appoint, it also has the power to revoke. And it is clear here what are the competences of the board in this area, i.e. Does the council give an opinion... I don't really see how someone would file a complaint with the National Court Register in accordance with their jurisdictional boundaries. In what mode? Would this be a complaint that the Minister had exercised his authority and the Council had exercised the advisory powers? There is no way for any such person to use different legal forms to contest such a decision. There is no need to use the complaint procedure while at the same time questioning it in view of the fact that, due to the composition of the KRS, we do not have confidence in the procedure in this regard. It seems to me that this is an artificial creation of a problem to show some gaps or flaws in this created system, but it also seems to me that it is not possible to generalize here, but it is important to assess specific cases. The fact that the Council in 2017 dealt with this issue, both at the general level and at the specific level, proves the positions I referred to on 20 December, one on the dismissal of the presidents and vice-presidents, the other on the appeal of the vice-presidents of the court specifically in Warsaw. I don't know if I'm... There was a question about... I think Senator Klich or Senator... [[Yeah, it's me.]] ...he asked a question about international practice. Aren't we afraid of international consequences, of contesting the widely recognised legal order in Poland and judgments given on individual issues? Well, I can say this: the future will show how it will be, and practice, but I don't think international practice, which is quite cautious in this regard, because it comes to a level of quite sensitive relations between countries... Since judicial decisions and actions are an expression of sovereignty of a given country, I do not think that we can expect any decisive and harsh behaviour of the contestants here. In addition, it is prepared by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers for discussion, which is conducted with various legal bodies in Europe, especially with the European Commission, so-called. It's a white book. There are evaluations and conclusions in this White Paper, including an analysis of solutions adopted in Poland, with a general assessment that none of these solutions is a solution that we would not have found in the legal order of European countries. But it's actually a charge that's being made. Without questioning the fact that these concrete solutions are there However, their acceptance and connection to such a structure, rather than another, creates the dangers that the senator mentions. Well, the assessment of dangers at the level of not even concrete solutions, but their interrelationships and actions are difficult to do so in abstracto. Only time and concrete solutions or specific cases will answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u68	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Comfort. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, you've escaped a little from my question. I asked about your assessment of the environment, and Mr President answered me with a social view, which I know and, moreover, I share... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I share your concerns about receiving social justice There's no difference between us here. But let me remind you that since your own assessment of what was said about the judge's environment, you've escaped. And if you answered me in such a way that there is a need for profound reforms that will allow citizens to identify themselves more with the justice system and have confidence in it, I would like you to tell me... Because before that, Minister Gowin had a reform that was intended to speed up the process. This was supposed to be what you were talking about, going towards society so that it could have faster access to justice. This reform was immediately untwined by Minister Ziobra, not even given the opportunity to function and evaluate her. I'd like you to tell me if you think it's so important that citizens have more access to justice... In 2017, could you show me any reform that was going in this direction? And could you explain to me how changing the choice of members of the National Court Register affects citizens' better access to justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u71	Thank you. Mr. Senator, well, it's wrong to think I'm running away from your questions. The dilemma is that, as I say and repeat it, for the third time, there is a certain formula of my speech. This is information about the activities of the National Courts in 2017, not a general discussion about the problems and possible reforms of the justice system. The National Court of Justice is not an organ which is from dealing with all the problems of the judiciary. After all, it has a very specific task set out in the act. They are, moreover, easy to evaluate after this information which I have presented, two areas: the personal area, i.e. those issues of opinion of candidates, and the area of opinion of legal acts, but only to a narrow extent, related to the independence and independence of the judiciary. Here there is a misunderstanding such as this practice of sending all possible legal acts to the National Courts. I've only quoted some about fighting infectious animal diseases or trade restrictions on Sundays, but I could also quote the one about renewable energy sources. It is easy to notice that there is no direct connection to the tasks of the KRS. And the second problem is that the senator is asking me for an opinion on these issues... But as who? As a specific judge or as chairman of the National Court Register? The chairman of the KRS, who, when he comes to the Sejm or the Senate, is not to share his individual thoughts, but to represent the whole body, and must not go beyond this mandate, and in any event should not understand him as being involved in representing the whole body, not merely in promoting or presenting himself. So this is also the answer to this part of the question, to what extent the establishment of the KRS in such a way and the shaping of its system in this way affects the improvement of the justice system. This could be expected if the tasks of the KRS were to be outlined in an extremely broad way and allowed to initiate all these reforms, etc. As I say, a few initial articles in the KRS Act show what its specific tasks are. They're listed in points, they're probably 5. And, after all, the KRS cannot go beyond the scope of these statutory powers. And as for... the senator mentioned the reform of Mr. Gowin, then Minister. I do not deny that such actions, which were well assessed, were taken by Minister Gowin, for example with such a degree of flexibility in the structure, with some possibility of better allocation of judges. Well, it was just some limited to certain areas of trial, not a broader reform and an attempt to shape the judiciary. Well, such trials on the principle of 2 steps forward, 1 backwards, I've seen many. E.g. In one year, Grodz courts were created and two or three years later Grodz courts were liquidated. Or someplace long-distance troops were created, because it seemed that this would respond to the demand that the judiciary should be more accessible, and after a while it turned out to be completely ineffective due to a small cast. It was enough that one or two people got sick in such a long-distance court, and it was no longer possible to create a warehouse. Well, in general, it generated costs, very high physical costs, and the efficiency was low. And again: after the formation of local departments, these local departments were liquidated. So that partial tests concerning whether it's structure or procedures were many, but they were partial and inconsistent. And those trials that are currently being undertaken, concerning, among others, KRS, they're part of a bigger change. The question is how the new formula will respond to these challenges. Well, here's what I'm gonna say: some form of social control over the justice system. Social control in the sense that if the Sejm's competence is allowed here... Well, the Sejm is made up of representatives of society and in this sense it is possible to talk about some influence, such influence on the judiciary, and thus the implementation of the formula of social control.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u72	Senator Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u73	Thank you very much. Judge, you don't answer my basic question all the time. Because the opinion, the good opinion of the judges... This is what we should all care about, absolutely all citizens, and I am not talking about the chosen ones, whether it's the KRS or the Senate or the Sejm. And I asked you if, because the billboards had some nasty information that might indicate that, well, judges are just thieves... Turns out that judge and judge were sick. This information has not been corrected and this opinion has therefore gone... I will remind you that this was the case with doctors and so on. etc. Then that's the kind of opinion that gets turned on. If we are to change anything, then let us all change this opinion. And that is why I ask the question: have you, as KRS, taken a stand on this information that has been posted on billboards? And then there's the second line. Judge, you said in response to my question regarding the dismissal of vice-presidents and presidents that it is appropriate for the minister that, since he is calling, he has the right to revoke. And you said they had a right to appeal. That's why I'm saying the appeal is kind of closed, especially after the changes in the Supreme Court. Have you considered that there can be no such answer here that God has given and God will take, that if the Minister has anointed, he can also slow down? Judge, that's not what a bar rep should say. And I am talking about this because recently you spoke very strongly about the assembly of judges in the District Court in Krakow, where the judges had to meet in the corridor to hold this meeting, and they misjudged the president who was appointed by your minister. I won't mention that she was a colleague of the Minister's... Well, he threatened to do it with a finger. Do you think that's how you practice judicial independence? And Judge Mither spoke on behalf of the KRS. And that's what I'm talking about, because I'm very, very sensitive about the independence of judges and the independence of judges. [[Question, Senator.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u74	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u75	I'm answering the senator's question. I'm also making it simple to assign me to a bar. You belong to the bar, Senator Comfort... [[Oh, I'm so sorry. That's right.]] ...and the judiciary is something separate. As for this reply concerning the possibility of questioning the Minister's decision to appoint and dismiss the Presidents, I just said that the complaint formula does not deprive anyone of the judicial path. If someone thinks that the minister's exercise of his authority was wrong for some reason, he has the right to make an appropriate judicial complaint, either to the administrative court or to the general court, if, for example, His personal belongings have been compromised. And judges of this kind, including the Minister of Justice, as I recall, will benefit if any decisions of the Minister do not seem appropriate to them. There are even civil proceedings before common courts. As far as the campaign run by the Polish National Foundation is concerned, I can say this: the National Foundation has been operating since 27 April 2018, a little bit of a month, and we did not take a position, we did not even have time to identify all these issues that we should address. The foundation's core activity and this billboard campaign took place in 2017, i.e. at the time of the previous council's operation, and in this respect the Council took a stand. I would like to remind you that paragraph 16 of the presented statement refers to the position of 14 September 2017 concerning the conduct of a media campaign by the Polish National Foundation. But I'd like to notice here additionally Because the senator also mentioned that there was a campaign against doctors. That no professional group is... Even if individual members have immunity to some extent, no professional group has any immunity to protect them from evaluation, also a critical assessment of the public. The form of her expression is, of course, a slightly different question, but this can be seen in terms of It's just individual. If someone feels affected by this, it is on a judicial path, it has protection, because such a campaign is also the pursuit of freedom of speech, it is part of it, and freedom of speech is an essential attribute of a democratic society. So the expectation of some practical action on the part of the KRS is a bit unrealistic, because, well, the KRS can take a stand, express disapproval, call for restraint, but on this, it seems, its capabilities are exhausted. But the key answer is: we haven't taken... This was dealt with by the KRS in the previous composition, such a position was taken in one of the resolutions. I think he's been exhausted at least for the time being. As far as Kraków is concerned, the situation is actually tense there, it is a very serious or significant environmental dispute. For the time being, the Ombudsman has spoken on the basis of such a preliminary view. But we will be dealing with this topic closer, so far we are getting information about events in Krakow, we are analysing resolutions that were made there, especially one of them, i.e. Resolution of the District Court in Krakow on the allegations concerning the manner in which the provisional detention was carried out against the former President of the Court of Appeal in Krakow. We are getting information and materials, as I say, so that we can identify the right team to be evaluated, and only on the basis of this will we take further steps, including some speeches to the Minister of Justice or other steps.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u76	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I've got questions tied up... You might be awkward to judge, but you weren't involved... This is the report's description of the appeals against the Council's resolutions on nominations. The Supreme Court has repealed more than 31% of the Council's resolutions. Tell me how you rate that percentage. Isn't it like there should be professionals in the KRS? And let me remind you that the Supreme Court in this case deals only with procedural matters, not substantive ones. Shouldn't the KRS, then the KRS, be professionals for whom the percentage of the Supreme Court's waivers should be minimal rather than 30%?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u78	Mr. Senator, I'll answer that question right away. With such a cursory assessment of this indicator, there may be a misunderstanding here, because the degree of so-called. the stability of the case-law should be related to the number of contested resolutions. And if you refer it to the number of contested resolutions, then expressing this stability rate 65% It's not a low indicator, it's not a bad indicator. 35 sentences passed by the Supreme Court, 34 substantive, and only 11 resolutions were repealed. If you take that back... A fuller picture is created if we also look at the so-called. the degree of challenge, and 35 of the 99 resolutions which have been adopted by the National Courts of Justice have just been challenged. In support of this, I can quote such indicative indicators of judicial stability in common courts. E.g. in district courts and regional courts, these indicators of stability vary between 50 and 80%. [[But what else is the National Judicial Council, and what else is the regional court. But something else is required when it comes to level.]] No, Mr. Senator, I can serve... However, this statistics need to be read slightly differently, because there may be a situation that will be challenged by 2 judgments. If an appeal or appeal were taken into account in relation to one of those judgments, it would be a 50% stability And if they were taken into account in relation to two, that would be 0% stability. It is important to know that two judgments have been contested and that 50 or 100 judgments have been handed down, i.e. this rate of challenge can be really minimal. So the information about stability itself, without showing what the scope of the actions was, does not give a complete picture. Therefore, I would like to repeat my earlier assessment and ensure that these 65% or 64% isn't a bad indicator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u79	Thank you. Your question is Senator Boris-Damięcka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u80	Thank you. Mr President, you have repeatedly stressed that you have only been working in this composition for a few months, but this is a 2017 report, so some insight into what has been going on and what is going on in our legislation... You are certainly discussing this subject and expressing your views. I would like to ask the President what is the view of the National Judicial Council and, personally, the President, of such a long delay in publishing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. What do you think? What is your assessment of the usefulness of publishing these judgments after such a long time, today? And yet, if you, without becoming competent, have any views on this matter... The point is, this kind of situation shouldn't be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u81	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u82	The issue of the publication of judgments or judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal is an expression of the legal dispute that has been brought around the Constitutional Tribunal. The Council, in its previous composition, held positions here, perhaps not on, strictly speaking, this publication, but on various aspects, and has exhausted its capacity in this regard. We did not have the opportunity to speak because, as far as the scope of the consultative competences of the National Courts of Justice is concerned, no project was presented which would require such an opinion. I already said here that my individual opinions are unnecessary and even unacceptable, because I represent the council. To the extent that the Council took this up, in 2017, I presented this position and, as far as 2018 is concerned, the Council did not take a position. So in this respect, I have nothing more to say. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damianka: Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u84	I understand that this is an evasive point of view...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u85	Senator, this isn't an evasive point of view, he's really very substantive. I, coming to the Sejm or the Senate, cannot express my private opinions. I can talk about my private opinions in the cockroaches or in some other formula. And here, presenting the position of the organ... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: But I'm not done. Judge, I'm sorry, I didn't finish my speech. If you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u87	I'm still judging this as an evasive position. It seems to me that each of your members of the KRS individually asked by the voter from every point and place in Poland has the right to ask the question of what your view is. Because this country is the body that's supposed to help citizens and help the rule of law spread in this country... [[There's a question. I'm asking the judge for an answer.]] I am interested in your position as Chairman of the National Judicial Council on this matter. Is it right and should it be so that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are made public with such delay and how is this applicable to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u88	There's a question. Judge, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u89	Senator, you, in addition to your argument to get the answer to that question from me, have referred to the fact that, as an elector or a citizen, you have the right to such information. Well, I'd like to point out that if we met in the form of some election meeting and you'd be taking part in it, and so would I. As a candidate for a public function, a Member or a Senator I would, of course, have to take a stand, and I would try to take it as far as possible. Forsaking this question is an attempt to obtain a private opinion from me, which in the form of information about the activities of the KRS in 2017 I will not give, I will not express. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I understand. So, after the current KRS, we can't expect anything good. Thank you.]] No. I think after the current KRS... [[Thank you. Senator, this is an opinion...]] ...we can expect that if... [[I'm sorry, thank you.]] ...the project will come in, and we will review it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u90	Senator Zdrojewska now has a voice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u91	Thank you very much. Finally, because I think we're getting to the end of the question. I'd like to ask you... You have a very difficult role as chief, because the circumstances of your appointment, and the law itself, which has entered into force... Not only for you, but also for the other members of the KRS, and it will always be mentioned in your resume. But you have a chance, because everyone has a chance. I'm not saying to be some kind of Conrad Wallenrod or anything. In order to focus on the fact that the National Judicial Council has one basic task, which has been defined by the Constitution in force. This task is to ensure independence... [[Senator, question.]] ...and independence That's what I'm getting at, Mr. Marshal. And I would like to ask you what you intend to do as president, in which direction you will lead this advice, how you will fight in Poland for the independence and independence of the courts in accordance with the Constitution which obliges you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u92	Judge, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u93	Senator, my temper is such that I will avoid military rhetoric. I don't think I see myself as a fighting person. On the other hand, I will try as far as possible to carry out my duties with full care, integrity, conscientiousness, avoiding involving the KRS in political disputes. I was talking here about delimiting this border between the political sphere and the judicial sphere. In 2017, the temperature of the discussion and the dispute justified even certain overruns here... We don't make a problem out of it. I think that calming emotions and performing tasks that are unambiguously defined in the law And the build-up of work is high. This is a sufficient challenge. Recognizing these tasks and aiming to achieve them is already a sufficient challenge and that is what we will focus on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u94	Thank you. [[Let me ask you a question.]] Yes? There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u95	Because you got away from the question a little bit... [[Chairman of the Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: But the question is so general that it is difficult for me to...]] But, Judge, you said you'd act according to... [[I'm sorry. Now the senator is asking a question, and then there's an answer.]] Because you said he'd act according to the bill, and so on. That's not what I meant. I ask specifically what actions the National Judicial Council under your leadership is to take to ensure the independence and independence of courts in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u96	Mrs. Senator, I can't say otherwise than that we intend to maintain the independence and independence of the judiciary and that we intend to carry out the statutory tasks described in the Act on the National Judicial Council, and these are tasks which are precisely intended to ensure independence and independence. Well, I don't want to mention these points of the bill one by one, but in general you can figure out what they are after the information I have provided. These are simply, in turn, personal issues, opinions on legal acts, taking a stand, taking part in various events related to independence and independence and representing the judiciary. To answer such a general question, covering as if the whole issue, in one sentence or in several sentences You can't, and therefore I'm appealing to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u97	No further questions. Thank you very much. [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: Thank you.]] Thank you, sir. [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. He is the first Senator Rybicki to be included in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Information about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017 is a very interesting document. It illustrates the struggle against the former composition of the National Council of Courts to preserve the independence of this institution, which is so important in the Polish system, because justice and its independence are one of the pillars of democracy. It is also an indication of how the parliamentary majority has consistently disarmed the National Judicial Council from its independence, unfortunately depriving it of authority. And that's what's important about the justice system. It also deprived her of many important competences, as I mentioned in my questions to the President. It is in this document, at the very beginning, a resolution of the National Judicial Council of 3 March this year, which I would like to quote, by dedicating it to the new National Judicial Council, but also to all those who exercise justice, also to the parliament, which has an important impact on the formulation of rules concerning the National Judicial Council or the judiciary in general. I'm gonna read the part that I'm fully identifying with. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland allows the legislator to shape the system of courts. However, it is already apparent from the Constitution that the system of courts must not prejudice the principles of independence and separation of courts from other authorities (legislative and executive). The courts must be organised in such a way as to carry out their mission independently of political authority. The Council therefore presents the following problems with regard to the system of courts. The courts of all levels and types must remain organisationally independent from the legislative and executive authorities. The separation of courts from other authorities is a necessary requirement for the proper organisation of the judiciary. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not provide for any exception in this respect. The Minister of Justice is not at the forefront of justice, but is intended to ensure its smooth functioning, e.g. by preparing draft normative acts to improve the functioning of the courts. It follows from the well-established case law of the Constitutional Tribunal that the Minister of Justice may exercise the power to appoint and dismiss the Presidents of the courts only if effective participation of the judicial authorities is ensured in this procedure. The law should ensure that persons with the highest substantive and ethical qualifications are appointed to serve as judges. This is part of the resolution of the National Council of Courts, which I will dedicate once again to the current composition of the Council. Because if we were to go back to history... the Constitution's creators to guarantee the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts, they predicted the establishment of the National Council of Judicial Affairs. Many prominent lawyers, politicians, we know that Lech and Jarosław Kaczynski were involved in this process. The working mode, the scope of action, the board system and the way in which its members are selected have been defined by the law. And in order to protect the council from political influence, from political takeover, the constitution clearly defined its composition. Unfortunately, the amendments to the Act on the National Judicial Council by a parliamentary majority introduced a provision on the election of 15 members of the Council, judges, for a joint four-year term by the Sejm, i.e. by politicians. This record clearly violates the article. 187 of the Constitution, which expressly states that the Sejm elects 4 members of the Council from among its Members, and the Senate 2 from among the senators. The composition of a constitutional body to protect the independence of judges will be decided by the politicians of the parliamentary majority, today's PiS, in the future Some other parliamentary majority. The principle of separation of judicial authority enshrined in Article. 173 of the Constitution has simply been liquidated. High Izbo, those politicians elected judges whose qualifications, the way they choose... A non-transparent way of choosing, because the lists of those supporting the candidacy are kept secret. That's how the council's composition will point to the president of the jury for nomination. Are these indications made by the council, whose unconstitutionality is, after all, by many lawyers, distinguished lawyers, indicated as something obvious... Will such indications with a legal defect, an obvious legal defect, be respected? Will they be honored? We don't know. Will the Supreme Court's designation by the National Courts of Justice under the new Supreme Court Act, also challenged as unconstitutional, be affected by a legal defect? They will be. Will the persons, parties judged by judges elected on the basis of these non-constitutional laws be able to claim that the composition of the court was not properly filled? Of course they can. The same legal basis will be invoked in the actions before the European Court of Human Rights. Perhaps in the future, any judgment given by a judge nominated under the new KRS Act can be challenged by referring to an absolute ground for nullity of the case, i.e. an inadequate seat of the court. High Izbo, what's the new National Judicial Council gonna be like? Well, it must be by nature all the facts that accompanied her uprising, weak, without authority. Unacceptable not only by the judicial environments, but also by the wider environments. The KRS established in violation of the Constitution is losing its essential political position. It will be a facade institution whose submission to politicians can and will probably lead to a collapse of the justice system in Poland and consequently The final dismantle of the three divisions of power as a pillar of democratic governance in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u99	Thank you. Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen, magistrates! This is the first time we have a representative of the National Judicial Council. I must say that you have calmly presented this report for the previous year, so peacefully that without looking for any political ambiguities, so I would say. So I think these... Thank you for this, because this discussion can be a little calmer and very substantive, although I do not hide the fact that we have been here since the beginning of this term of office engulfed with huge emotions. They accompany us, but not only to us, also to those people on the street, they accompany all so-called. judicial reforms in Poland for several years, so-called reforms that are challenged not only by a large part of outstanding Polish lawyers, departments, universities, but also by various international groups. We are at this point in time that we are waiting for a decision to be made by one of these bodies, which will take place at the end of June. For this reason, you are in a difficult situation now, because when you participate in the meetings of the European Judicial Council Network, you are treated as someone who is sort of standing in the waiting room, because it is not known whether he has been legally elected. And this, Dear Senators, was set up by the members of this body, the European Network of Judicial Councils, whose chairman said that what is happening in Poland and Hungary, is a disease at the level of systemic threats. That's how it's been defined. The State was not excluded from this body simply because we are waiting for the Court's ruling and everyone in Europe is waiting for it. Although we are waiting, judgments have already been handed down in Europe, in other European countries which no longer recognise our judgments or refer to these courts, judgments or judges in a manner that disregards our justice system, so I would say. We're all witnessing this on our own, and we're all waiting for it to end. The street hasn't settled this yet, and maybe she'll judge it abroad. And even if the political authorities do not comply, we will still have to deal with ostracism in the European judicial system. There's a threat like that. This is the case I wanted to tell you about. And I don't envy you for doing this job. I mentioned Conrad Wallenrod actually jokingly. That's not a military term. Rather, this term referring to our literature refers to the fact that someone enters a body and then works there for the benefit of society. That's why I mentioned the constitution to you, and in answer to my question, you referred to the laws. Read the constitution. The National Judicial Council wouldn't have made any sense at all if it hadn't been included in the Constitution and if it hadn't actually written down its only real task. The only real task is to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. And this is what you must defend. That is why I expect the National Judicial Council in this new group, however, to deal with these slanderous campaigns that Senator Sztark asked about, with campaigns that offended the dignity of the judge, not just individual judges, but the entire state. You are to stand guard, to protect your independence, to protect your judicial independence. And stripping these judges by political groups of good names is also one of them. A court-martial. That doesn't mean they're sacred cows. God forbid, we're not talking about holy cows. Criticism is needed and reforms and changes are also very often necessary. And we have spoken on this subject many times, but not this way and not this way... It's not like we're throwing out experienced, brilliant judges, and people who use words in public come in their place. And it's flying into the ether. The type of pearl throwing in front of the pigs. The pigs are parliamentarians or other judges who demand the disclosure of a letter of support for candidates to the National Courts. Or they're talking about exposing political barbarians. That is what we hear from the messenger, but not only, Sirs, because at the moment she is also a member of the KRS. I'm very sorry for your loss. Judge Johann, on the other hand, is talking about cleaning the chair after the crane. Sounds like it. Maybe it's funny, but it's not funny, it's disdainful of the new KRS composition about the old one. You can't do that. This cannot be because, if you are to uphold the independence of the judges, you are also to defend Judge Tulei and Judge Zurek. This is your duty as KRS. Otherwise, you're not needed for anything. I'd also like to say... You were talking about the House of Lords, about the KRS being the House of Lords. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you: if the Lord is such a sovereign, it's really better to be a lord than a vassal sometimes. And I'll leave you to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I'm sure it's gonna be difficult to address your entire speech after that. As I said before, I was also a member of the National Court Council, so I don't know if I'm more of a lady or a senator here. I'm not offended because that's not the point at all, but you really need to be very careful with the language. We need each other. A few facts to start with. According to the opinions of the European Commission, the Venice Commission, Poland is no longer a law-abiding country. Can the suspect still count on a fair trial? It's also about extradition. The Court of Justice of the European Union held its first hearing on 1 June 2018 on a case which could lead to Poland being excluded from the European legal system with all of these dramatic consequences. There are questions from the European Court of Justice on infringements of the law concerning the dismissals of Presidents and other amendments. These are just some of the speeches or positions that come to us. And all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are obliged... We, citizens, parliamentarians, judges, are all obliged to care about the state of law, the constitution, our right to know whether or not the new KRS has been properly filled. I'm saying this because I'll remind you If this is challenged in the future, your decisions may also be challenged, and these are very serious decisions, as they are followed by the cast of posts, the choice of judges, and thus also by their hearings and judgments may be contested. And that's why I really don't care who... I don't know these people, but, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of clarity. 'Cause there's nothing to be afraid of 'cause show those names, show them. And those people have nothing to worry about either. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't heard of a beating, for example. I'm talking about your brother because he's the only gentleman he's ever mentioned. As the person who supported you. Come on. We have the right to... You guys got off on the wrong foot in the KRS at all. If the words have been said I'm gonna say it again, 'cause I'm gonna have to say it again. It's bad words, bad words, really bad words about clearing up, about clearing up, about clearing up our predecessors. The hatred of Judge Zurek has been revealed in the statements of the truly noble Judge Johann. It's supposed to have a freezing effect: every next judge who speaks. Mr. Minister or the National Judicial Council must bear in mind that these words will also fall on the part of the present members of the KRS. Ladies and gentlemen, this concerns your colleague, who will soon sit behind the judge's table, will judge the defendant, and this defendant will have the right to say, sir, Judge, they must clean your seat after you. Is that what this is about? That's the judge's authority? You were talking about harassment against judges, present members of the National Court Register. Do you think that after these words you can build the authority of the KRS? You said, you kept saying things about caste that were unfortunate... because it was out of context when Judge Kaminska... Let's not do it again, let's not do it again. Let us really take care of the authority of judges and courts. Let's not say it's caste. Ladies and gentlemen, the revolution is eating its own children. The next ones will come after us, as I said before, and it could be a much more extreme group. Ladies and gentlemen, it's like the joke that he's gonna chase those woodlanders... yeah, the forester's gonna chase... What was it like, Mr. Marshal? [[Voice from the hall: At the end of the grove...]] [[The forester chased down the guerrillas.]] Gay chase them, yeah. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen... Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for reminding me. [[You're welcome.]] [[Voice from the hall: At the end of the forest, the ranger will chase everyone out of the forest.]] Yes. And by continuing... by referring to this fact... That's why I'm talking about this, Judge, Mr. Judges, i.e. because there are cases that should be removed from the current dispute, very acute. During the vote, during the debate on the KRS and on the Supreme Court and other laws there were very hot emotions. We heard the names of the next senators called behind the windows here, asking them to change their attitude to a possible vote on these laws. Gentlemen, we should... After all these emotions, you should really, really, really, really remind me of that. Take care of the authority of the National Courts and Courts. I'll keep saying that. Come on. You didn't convince us that the ordinary law could violate the constitutional and sacred principle of shortening your term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not that these judges were afraid of harassment from the other judges. No. These judges, because of the existing constitution, did not want to take part in the election of the members of the National Court Register because the ordinary law reduced their term of office. You can't do that. If once you violate the Constitution, the sacred thing enshrined in the Constitution, then there will be a temptation to violate it and in the case of successors. I made a mistake here, of course... Mr President's reaction was symptomatic when I mistakenly said that you were a member of the bar, you reacted very strongly. This visible reaction is a signal to us from our dislike of other legal backgrounds. And, as we know, the lawyers have strongly opposed these new developments. Ladies and gentlemen, not only as far as the constitution is concerned, but as far as our lives are concerned, you are necessary... There's only 10,000 of you... lawyers, lawyers, and prosecutors are needed and needed. But they must first of all be well-chosen, well-chosen, so that no one will ever question their judgments. In conclusion, here's what I'm going to say. Gentlemen of the Judges... I'll remind you of that, and I'll remind you because it's worth talking about all the time. You can't underestimate a judge's environment. When the assembly of judges in Cracow disputes the observance of the principles of social relations in this court and speaks of the wrong conduct of the President, the judge, do not treat this as a violation of the good name of the judge, the President or as protection of a colleague from the National Court of Justice, just take a look at it. Because if so many people are saying wrong, and only one person or a few people are saying otherwise, it's worth looking into. A proper aura and climate are also required for good trial and good court work. That's what we'd really want from you. I will repeat here after my colleague: believe that, despite these very strong speeches, after all of our experiences, we want the National Judicial Council next year, presenting a report on this period, from 2018, to tell us, as long as things that last for years have been shortened, as procedures have been changed, etc., etc., because we care most about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. [[Well, so alive, I woke up.]] I can't believe you slept.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u104	No, I wasn't. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Gentlemen, magistrates! I will start with the threads that touched my colleagues, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Judge, I'd like to join you in thanking you for having such a hot topic that has always aroused emotions here today. Much of your credit for this, you answered in substance as much as you could, as you could, as much as you wanted, and that is a lot of it, because many of the people who came to these questions were, above all, political views, and only later this substantive part, this being, which we expect from you, especially from the judicial community, and for that much thanks. I, of course, do not sign, Judge, under the agreement that you are in the KRS, which, in the opinion of many circles... I am not a lawyer, and therefore I repeat what I read, what I hear, what I hear from people who are professionals in this business. I do not approve of the decision that you are in the KRS because, as I read quickly, you have a beautiful story of the judge, and you have a fantastic name, and these two arguments argue that it is important to consider very deeply whether it is worth running for an institution that has so much legal doubt. I'm signing off on what Senator Shark said. But now that there's some advice... I, of course, do not absolve anyone, especially politicians, who, in view of many legal backgrounds, have made a decision to violate the Constitution, and everything that Senator Rybicki also said... Well, what was the first thing that rained? There were words that caste chose caste, caste from among themselves... Is this raising the authority of a judge in Poland? Well, not in my opinion. After all, today the politicians of the opposition could say in this language Of course, I'm talking about the language of the politicians of Law and Justice. That friends, representatives of the caste were elected by politicians. Well, you can make up all kinds of concepts, terms that will depreciate the position of a judge. And the foundation of the state is among others. the authority of the judge. In Westerns And I love watching Westerns. What's left in the end? The judge and the sheriff's authority, not politics. Remember, Mr. Judges, where politicians go deep, it always ends badly, always. Too deep a policy entry into every area ends badly. The place for politicians to be politicians is right here in this room. And in order not to stall, not to give too many examples when politicians went too far, I will probably remind you of the fantastic exchange of staff in Polish horse studs. After all, there are no such functioning studs in Europe. And I'm afraid, Mr. Judges... I wish you gentlemen to be immune to the pressure of politicians. I am sure, and I am putting dollars against peanuts, Mr President, Judge, as I know the politicians of Law and Justice, that they will press it, and it will be hard, hard, so that many people will break. But I wish you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that what you've been presenting here today would be your dominant throughout the presidency of the National Judicial Council. Because if we don't return to authority And the judge's authority was badly devastated. If, by whatever means, we do not return to the authority of the judge... [[But they ruined themselves...]] ...then I see the future of the Republic of Poland miserably. [[They've contributed to this...]] And now... Oh, yes, you can hear yourself. Yeah, well, the judges ruined their own... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What I'm trying to say is that in my opinion, there are no environments that don't have bad examples. I am not talking about Polish parliamentarians, I am talking about parliamentarians from the European Union. They drink, they cheat on their wives, they sleep in the hallways, and so on. After all, in many countries there are people who are a bad example of politicians. I know that there are no such things in Poland, and praise us for that, but... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] ...but all environments have different representatives... That's why it's not like the judges destroyed their own authority. For 10,000 cases of reprehensible, and what did you do? You've made such a fool of yourself that today a judge is synonymous with evil. [[Thief!]] What I'm trying to say is it's gonna affect a gray citizen. After all, it is a citizen who has just expressed his opinion that I expect changes in the judiciary. But did he agree to the violation of the constitution? Did he agree that politicians should choose judges and have the greatest influence on the judiciary? He didn't agree. I'm gonna sign up for what the judge said from that bleacher today. We're just before the soccer world championship. What league are we in when it comes to the judiciary? [[The first one.]] The first one. Turkey. We, Turkey and Hungary. Professor, you have a brilliant insight into the Championship League. It's at least class C. If we add to this information, which is in public space, that the European Judicial Council Network is considering excluding us from this body... As a reward? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] For being so smart and good and law-abiding and decent. Yes? I understand that you wanted to change your staff because the good old-fashioned domain I don't know the author, so I might be wrong. It says "Cadres" above all. [[Voice from the room: Bolshevik.]] [[Lenin.]] Yes, Vladimir Iljicz Lenin. First of all, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask you a few questions. This is the essence of change. I hope that the judge will be immune to your pressure, to your attempts to influence what is happening in the judicial field. To conclude, I would like to say again what Senator Shark has said very clearly. I want to stress that, too. We, all citizens, want to improve what has been enumerated as bad elements in the opinions of the courts. I'm betting dollars against nuts. We'll see the results. The effects will be... hopefully they're not... I wish I was wrong. Because if the results are the same as the horse studs, what do I care if I'm right? What do I care? Tens of years we will rebuild the authority of the judge. Dozens of years we'll be working to get the court to mean the court, and the law... [[For the law to mean the law.]] That is exactly what it sounds like: that the law means the law and justice means justice. And this is what I wish all Poles with all my heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I'm going to start with a symbolic setup that came up in the discussion, a real, real setup. The judiciary in Poland has similar problems as the judiciary in Turkey. Poland and Turkey are examples of problems in Europe, of which, to my surprise, you speak with some satisfaction from the opposition. Well, maybe I'm wrong, but I read it a little bit like that. Ladies and gentlemen, if anybody makes such a statement today... You can compare everything with everything to see the difference. But if someone makes this combination, in my opinion, it's probably not a good combination. One may have doubts whether the comments on the method of proceding or what was happening in Poland in the reform of the judiciary, but such a statement rather depreciates the person who makes such a statement. Of course, this does not relieve us and does not relieve you of the fact that our partners in Europe are patiently explaining the nature of the changes taking place in Poland. It's possible. I mentioned that I have some experience here. Working at the Ministry of Science, I met with various partners abroad, who were anxious and often amazed at what was happening in Poland. In a calm conversation, I was able to translate these messages in a sense. And before you, before us, but also before you as a representative in European bodies, it is the task of talking about this situation in a factual manner in Poland. This is possible and I am convinced that you will be able to do so. The second element, also disturbing, which appeared in your statements, is the constant return... as if to describe the situation so that in Poland there is a state of actually a certain anarchy. It is not known whether the judgments of the courts are accepted, whether everything that has been going on in the last year will be sometime questioned by someone in some manner, so we are on the verge of some total anarchy. Exactly, I would like to ask: let's not go this way, let's not fuel this state here, inside or outside. The way of lawmaking or the whole reform may not be entirely satisfying to all of us, there were some or other comments. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we have the current state: the Constitutional Tribunal is in operation, the National Council of the Court of Justice is in operation. [[Professor, that's not the way you're going.]] So there is no other advice. Unless we want to go into anarchy. How to accept it, to acknowledge that these sounds function, and very reliably, very carefully look at their hands. And that's the job. to all of us in Parliament: to look at the hands very honestly, to look at the effects of the work of these bodies. I am very interested in the National Council report next year. Because today we are basically talking about 2017, but naturally our emotions and our interest are shifting to the functioning of the current council. There is a really difficult task ahead of the current counsel. Because it's all true what you're saying. Now I do not want to analyze who put a brick into it, but indeed the authority of judges in Poland today has been strained by the action of many different factors. We, as a parliament or as a ruling formation, probably put our own brick into it too. The circumstances in which even this new National Judicial Council has been established also put you in a difficult situation, because you have to earn your authority by coming from a point of zero. Such institutions take authority from their predecessors, that is, the great value of institutional authority. The State, this particular council of this institutional authority I say it with regret, but it is so, so I see it, unfortunately it has been largely deprived. The fact that only 18 people have decided to take up this task and the challenge of about 10,000 judges is a precedent is a very worrying fact. I'll admit I'm anxiously watching, I'm interested in what you're doing, how you're going to act. I will admit, however, that, unlike my colleagues in particular, the senator who stated that these words were true. After this discussion, after this speech by the President, it is clear that nothing good can be expected from this Council... I, Senator, am leaving this meeting today with an exact opposite conviction, the conviction that it is precisely after this speech of the President today that we can expect something quite meaningful from the Council. Because he showed that he was an independent man, he showed that even when he asked what he would do to fight for the independence of judges, which is of course the great task of the National Judicial Council... But what will he do? Will he hold pickets, press conferences, political events? No, he's gonna be fairly competent, and he's gonna do it in the bill. That's enough for me if he's actually exercising the powers that are enshrined in the bill, because that's what this is all about. And this reliable exercise of competence can also involve the fact that over time there will be tensions or some differences, e.g. between the KRS and the Ministry of Justice. Here, too, it was noted that political pressure could be expected. Well, of course, there have been examples of this in the last eight years, the last 20 years, the last tens or hundreds of years. It is a natural situation that different forces, different people, different institutions try to put pressure on judges, but that's what judges are judges to become independent of these pressures. And I hope so. I very much wish you all this. That the state, thrown out of the regional courts, with all due respect to the regional courts, on much deeper water, this task will be managed. And here I also appeal to my opposition colleagues to create such an opportunity for you not to cross anyone in advance and not to prejudice that nothing good is going to happen here. And next year, in a few years, we'll see what the results will be. This will certainly be a test for both the State and the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, some tension or differences between your position and the position of today's governing coalition or another coalition may arise, but your task is to perform your function in accordance with the law and with the constitution, in an independent manner. Finally, there is one more point that has emerged here, and also in the statements made by the President. The judge's independence is also to some extent independent from his own environment, from corporations, from corporate pressure. We here confuse these two things: corporate independence and the judge's independence. The judge may also be bound or may feel limited by a certain custom, something unwritten that functions in a corporation. And in this sense, in this process of appointing the National Council, greater than before the participation of non-corporate governments is nothing perverse. Besides, such solutions also exist in Europe. It was said here that there is nothing in our current legal state that distinguishes us from the solutions that exist in Europe. So thank you for speaking today and I sincerely wish you the best of luck on the very difficult mission that you and yours have undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought until recently that 27:1 was the highest loss PiS ever had, but it turns out it could be up to 10,000 to 18. [[It's not the PiS, it's Europe who lost.]] 10,000 to 18... [[Applause]] ...this is the data given by your president so-called. KRS. Well, that's the result of the so-called one. good changes in the judge's environment. In this match, the judge's environment wins against those who have decided to join the so-called. the new KRS in relation to 10,000 to 18. Well, this will be the result long remembered in history, the latest history of independent judiciary in Poland. At the moment, no one is able to erase this result, as the President himself admits. I have to say, you've done a lot of honesty talking about that result, because it's rare to get results that depressing. those who, first of all, gave Poland such a replacement and, second, those who decided to be in this 18-person composition. There are 10,000 people who are at least trying to keep themselves independent in a new situation. You lost this game 10,000 to 18. Both the legislators who voted in favour of these solutions and those who decided to separate themselves from the judge's environment and create an 18-member representation team among 10,000 judges in Poland lost. Now it turns out that not only the opposition, which questioned the constitutionality and usefulness of the changes, not only international organizations to which Poland belongs, but also the judicial environment itself evaluates the changes that have been introduced in Poland. We observed and pointed out, among others. the fact that here in Ukraine, which is only aspiring to membership of the European Union and has recently signed an association agreement, is being introduced a Polish model guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary. It is about the role and location of the KRS, which has been with us for many years. And in Poland there is a retreat from this model and what the Ukrainians are moving away from is being introduced. I have to say, this is one of the major paradoxes I've seen in recent years. As rapporteur for the Council of Europe, I was recently in Morocco. And I've been asked. I'll tell you about it by the way. I'm assessing the chapter that was recently made there, the Minister of Justice from the Attorney General. I said "fantastic." Then, off the record, after the meeting ended, my caller asked: why did you take a step the other way in Poland? It turns out that in Morocco, which has no democratic tradition... the whole history of this country is not the history of a democratic country, and we are just celebrating the 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism. [[And the 100th anniversary of the judiciary.]] In Morocco you can, and in Poland you can not. In Morocco they introduce what in Poland the PiS government is leaving. Are there more paradoxes than the Moroccan one and the Ukrainian one? There isn't. I can't imagine them anyway. And I am not surprised that the UN has recently joined the choir of international institutions to which Poland belongs. They are fundamentally concerned about the ongoing process, which Mr Mazur represents today in this Chamber. In recent days... Let us remind you: Poland has recently taken up the role of a permanent member of the UN Security Council, the main executive body, as we boasted. Poland belongs to the founders of the United Nations. Poland recognises the authority of the United Nations. The United Nations Special Representative for Polish Affairs, who was authorized to assess all changes in the judiciary, begins his report from what we have talked about many times, from the fact that the whole process of changes in the judiciary began with the two phases in which the Constitutional Tribunal was taken over. I'm translating it live right now. The first phase in which the Court became under siege, which was to pave the way for far-reaching changes in the justice system, took place without any reference to constitutional compliance. This is how a special representative of the United Nations begins its report evaluating changes in the justice system in Poland. In the second phase, the Court was transformed into a politically flexible body I quote: politically flexible body There have been changes in the composition and functioning of the main judicial institutions: the general system of courts, the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council. And what does the special representative say about the National Judicial Council? It'll be translated live again. Existing procedures, i.e. those which have been in force in Poland for several years They were fully in line with international standards and recommendations relating to the composition of national judicial councils. So here we have a clear positive assessment of compliance with the international standards of the National Judicial Council, which PiS has decided to replace with a new one. The Special Rapporteur does not share the opinion of the Government It's a quote. in this report. What kind of opinion? The one who says these international standards aren't being violated. He doesn't share that opinion. And he writes that the fact that the judges will no longer play a fundamental, decisive role in pointing out 15 members of the board The National Judicial Council, because we are talking about it, is arguing with regional and international standards. I repeat: he is arguing with regional and international standards. Next: the fact that the members of this board will be elected by a qualified majority does not remove the doubts raised by the rapporteur in the previous paragraph. Well, I'm only talking about this because there is no international institution to which Poland belongs and which would not raise its fundamental objections to the adopted method of determining the new KRS. So today we can say, apart from the opposition, in addition to the vast majority of the judicial community, because the proportion is 10,000 to 18, in addition to the international organisations mentioned so far, the UN also considers this process to be defective, unconstitutional and incompatible with international standards. So where are we today? We are at the margins of those regional and international standards which Poland has so far accepted. Standards of the democratic rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Blackbay It's a second time, so five minutes. [[I didn't take 10 minutes, and now I won't take five minutes.]] Great, great news.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen, magistrates! I always love hearing what Professor Bobko says. Since I felt like I was being addressed to some part of the professor's speech, I'd like to justify myself, Professor. Professor, ladies and gentlemen, by doing this combination of Turkey and Poland, I absolutely do not compare countries, I distinguish, Professor, I assure you, what is happening in Turkey, from what is happening in Poland, and I know the proportions, the power of ladies. I quote, Professor, the judge's speech... [[I was referring to this...]] ...who said that Turkey and I are in trouble in the international arena. Therefore, I, referring to the judge's statement, felt that, since the judge said so, it was evidently so. That's all I wanted to say. That's one thing. Secondly, Professor, the senator is talking about us having some perspective on anarchy, God knows what, etc. Professor, we're really far from anarchy, it's certainly not, but we're close to dictatorship. We are certainly in the form of a democracy, as evidenced by yesterday's discussion about wage cuts. The leader stood up, said to lower and you will probably vote fast and in favour to lower. To paraphrase this, I would like to say that the only thing missing is that the leader should say, "The earth is flat," and we'll pass it tomorrow. And that's it, Professor. [[We don't, we don't.]] I'm talking about the Senators of Law and Justice. It's a threat issue. Professor, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's clear that there are two of the biggest threats. One is the threat to the pressures that I have talked about here and the other is what my friends have been talking about here. This is a threat to non-recognition of judgments abroad. Well, we already have our first case. I'm counting on it, and I believe it will be the only case, but there is a threat. We need to quantify threats, because a wise Pole is one who reads threats and does not say: yes, I was wrong again. And finally, I would like to say what Senator Klich said or what he started talking about, about our authority and our assessment of others. We can say that we are not interested in this at all, but I would like to say that the United Nations Human Rights Council recommends And that's a quote, not from English, I'm already reading what recommends that we withdraw from the universal courts, KRS, etc., etc. [[Yes, sir.]] He says to us: "Dear ones, come to your senses." What are you doing in there? I know they're far away, they don't know this reality at our place, they don't know that that judge stole his pants and that sausage. They don't know that. How would they know? If they knew, maybe they wouldn't. But what's the best part, Professor? I'm almost done. It's about the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, it's not my vocabulary, it's the translation of what was written in the report. The Human Rights Council writes about the Constitutional Court in Poland that the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland has been castrated. Well, it's definitely not something... I don't know what that word means exactly, but they certainly don't praise us. I'm sure of it. And I would like to say that in an area that is so important from the point of view of the pillars, the stability of the state, someone once wrote: Poles have castrate their own justice system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Maybe we could vote that...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Interesting speech, but you know that when we file a motion stating that the Earth is round, you will vote against it. [[Yeah, yeah. I'd like to assure you...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Shark. [[Even though I'm having second thoughts, I'm voting against it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I will then vote against. [[Against the conclusion that the Earth is round?]] Yeah, because Copernicus isn't a woman either. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] I didn't suspect... I wouldn't speak either, and I know I've got five minutes, and I'm gonna use a lot less. I didn't expect to refer to Professor Bobka's words, because I think... I don't know if he understood me well. And, Mr. Marshal, I'm counting on you. Is that... [[It was a quote.]] Norwid wrote: "Is this bird defiling the nest that defiles it, or is it not allowed to speak about it?" It's Norwid. [[Is that what you said, Senator? I don't know...]] No, no. I was quoting Norwid. Professor, I am referring to your words because I really respect you very much. No satisfaction, I give you my word of honor. I really wouldn't want to be tried or brought to trial, which may be what I said earlier, that there's a danger that a misplaced KRS can do that. I can't have any real satisfaction. And I talked about it, and we all said it. European organisations are questioning, among other things. elections to the KRS. It wasn't us. That's also... Of course, we questioned that, too, because it was against the constitution. I was talking about shortening your term of office. The Constitution speaks of a full term. My concern is that judges should be elected in accordance with the law, so as not to be dismissed illegally by the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Court, that judgments should not be challenged in the future and that, also in the future, judges who are now members of the National Courts should not be in trouble. That's it. That's it. You also said about the Constitutional Court that he is that we should respect him. Professor, how can I respect the Constitutional Court, which for 14 months has not bent on asking or asking the court to exhume the corpses of the Smolensk families? 14 months, and families were waiting for it. [[Geniuses.]] [[Applause]] 14 months. [[Geniuses, geniuses.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the victims have already been exhumed, there is no verdict. Would it really take so much time? Does this increase respect for the Court? I could mention it again, but here a colleague has already done so, about the UN opinion. And I'll finish it. Professor, are we really all against us, everyone in Europe, and we're just the most wonderful, we do everything right and in this... I can speak a sharp language, but you've noticed my modesty and the fact that she has characterized us, me too, a really great concern. Because nobody wants the Polish state to pay huge damages in the future just because judgments can be challenged. I'm not glad some bad guy or, I'm sorry, a criminal isn't being extradited right now. It doesn't bring us any glory... And that's why I'm not happy, really. Let's do everything we can to make sure we don't have anything to worry about. And in this, I'm sure you and I, and my colleagues on this side, and we're unanimous on this side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u113	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. That's the second time, isn't it? That's five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u114	Second time, yes. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: She confessed.]] [[This is the third time... we're joking.]] [[Voice from the room: 4th.]] Four times, yeah. Second time. I probably wouldn't say anything, 'cause actually everything I had to say was pretty clear, and I was pretty clear about it in my speech. However, I was asked to tell the judge that since you are here and answer our questions, you have been left by this so-called one. The National Judicial Council elected chief, you must remember that you are not Already a private person and no questions to you about courts, judges, etc. These aren't personal questions. Because, I've already told you, you have your constitutional tasks, and you have to follow them, and you need to know that. Society's waiting for that, too. Society has begun to listen very carefully over the last two years to what justice is all about. Only as a result of all these changes, conflicts... The one good thing that has happened is that society has learned a lot about the justice system, about how it works, about some institutions. Because, I assure you, when nothing happens, people have no idea that something like the KRS exists. And I think there's even a senator here right now who used to come out and talk about the KRS, which is... [[National company register, National Court Register.]] ...about the national company register because he was wrong about the National Courts Board. That's what consciousness looks like even among senators. And the second thing I'd like to say. I'm gonna go on one more case. Yesterday, Senator Klich was talking about putting out parliament. We have... In general, parliamentarianism in Poland. We meet once a month right now. We expect to meet once a month for the next six months. I don't think Parliament is needed at all. But this also applies to the Court. It's a bang. This Court is a bang, this is a vassal organ. And the same applies unfortunately to the KRS. And that's why I was talking to you, Judge, that you can change that, maybe you can... People change, and then society appreciates it. And finally, to Senator Bobka... Because you asked us to answer in a general way that 2 ladies... It smelled very ugly of patronism, Professor. So don't talk like that, talk to everyone and about specific things, because we're not twin sisters, we're just saying... Each of us said something completely different and a little bit different. Pay attention to that. And I'm talking to you right now, but I'm already here praising you for your calm and substantive speech. But I'd like to say that you're really acting, Senator, on a bad case. That's you. With such wisdom, knowledge, and intellect, he should sound and shout: the plarum are playing! You should be saying that. You're obliged to do that. And I'm sure we'll see each other in a few years and you'll regret having such a weak voice that you don't know what's going on. Whether you are blaming or praising, whether you are good with this judiciary in Poland or not That's how you talk. There are a few such senators on the side of the Law and Justice Club and independent, a few symmetists who think it's best not to speak and maybe it'll work itself out. No, it won't. I mean, yes. - Yeah, no. - Yeah, yeah, No, no, no, no, Let my words be so. Senator, I encourage you: more courage, more courage to express your judgments, because going to television... you are the only, most decent and decent Senator allowed in some stations... That's not a good enough role for you. Like I say, there are situations when you just have to sound. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. I just want to point out that there is no such thing as a national company register, there is a National Court Register. Anyone can... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[There's a national company register, too.]] [[Voice from the room: There is one too.]] Yes. Anyone can make a mistake, as you can see. Minister Radziwiłł. [[There's a national register.]] [[There it is.]] [[But the marshal is witty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The judiciary is not my domain, but even more so by listening to your speech, as well as the calm, factual answers to the provocations that fell here. Many provocations, because among the voices addressed to you, much were not questions, but just provocations I felt... [[Oh, where did you hear that?]] [[You weren't here.]] ...a great relief. And I have to say, it's your... [[Calm down, please.]] ...expression here... this multi-hour job you've done is very important. And those who want to know about the national judicial council, I think, at this point they might be calmer. I am calmer because you have done most of all to present us without comment a report to which you are bound by your laws. In such a way, by avoiding, despite the obstacles, commenting on something that you, as chairman of the council, are not called to do at all. It's very important. At the same time, the report, and in particular the list of positions that the National Judicial Council adopted last year, shows very clearly the problem that we have been dealing with. After all, practically, the overwhelming majority of these positions, these resolutions, are political positions. And there's no need to kid yourself that it was... All the more so, listening to your speech and to your response, I would like to express my optimism that the National Council, in this new composition and under your leadership, will take care of what it needs to do. Thank you very much for what you have presented here. With regard to the context of the discussion that has taken place here, and in particular the context of such an international... There was plenty of time to see what it all looked like. I have thoroughly reviewed, and even, you can say, I have read in depth, what is contained on the ENCJ pages, that is, the European Network of Judicial Councils. By the way, it would be good to update our card because it applies to previous regulations. And what is the result of this information? It follows that there are very different institutions in this network: institutions appointed in different ways and placed in different places In Portugal, as I recall, within the structures of the Ministry of Justice; it is so that we have something to compare ourselves to; institutions which have either a majority of judges or a minority of judges because they are; institutions where the appointment of members of these councils takes place according to very different scenarios. There are also those who are not in the constitutions of the countries that they represent, but are, you can say, judges' organisations. I must say that such a quick look at this judicial authority in various countries, please remember that I have been a professional local authority for many years. gives a picture just of an incredibly wide range of solutions that are adopted in different countries. And I don't see any problem here about our situation, and I don't see us going away from what is a very broad standard that can be read from these pages. The fact that this organization has expressed an opinion or said that it will observe what is happening in Poland is not a reason for disaster either. Well, there are changes, somebody signalled that they're somehow disturbing, so the charity colleagues said we're gonna be looking into it. That's all. That's all. That's all. I don't see anything dangerous about it. We are a great cross-border community, where there are judges from different countries, and there is no wonder that they want to look at what is happening in Poland. I think, by the way, if I can share such reflection It is worth looking at one of the attributes of the Polish state, which is self-government in general: territorial self-government, professional self-government, public trust professions, judicial self-government, which has a slightly different character, but it is also self-government, and various other types of self-government. It must be said that in the case of those self-governments which are rooted in the Constitution, and therefore territorial self-government, the self-government of public trust professions and the judicial self-government, very clearly already in the Constitution, and it is repeatedly pointed out that this is as a state authorisation to organise those groups which are to be self-governed not in order to defend their interests, but in order to defend the public interest. And that, in my opinion, is completely fundamental. In this sense, self-government is a great gain and a very desirable solution in these various aspects of its operation. But there is also danger. I think that in all kinds of self-governments this danger is visible. We are dealing with this in particular where it affects the issue of professional self-government, whether it is the professions of public trust or the judiciary. We have such a natural tendency or tendency to bind self-government, to make self-government, which is an institution of the Republic of Poland, to protect citizens, such a corporate tool to protect our own group interests. I think there's such a danger. And, unfortunately, it is very clear in the history of the National Council of Sadism. All these pathologies we know they have, you can say, their peak in the speech that was quoted here. And I'm going to quote it, even though one of you asked me not to duplicate it anymore. Because that's what an important judge from this community said. - Did she say anything? - No, I didn't. These extremely shameful words about the fact that judges are an extraordinary caste. It shows the pathology where these things were headed. And hopefully it's over. Because the National Council is supposed to protect citizens, to improve the quality of the judiciary. Just one look at the previous law and the present law. That's her primary objective. And hopefully she will pursue that goal. I wish this very well to you, Mr President, and to all those who have decided to take this advice. And, of course, I regret that so few judges wanted to join the national council. But it's not like everyone else is against it. This only shows how strong these intimidation mechanisms are, how strong are these mechanisms of some kind of environmental blackmail that appears in many professional environments. And I hope, under your guidance, that such calm, factual guidance can break it. I very much wish you well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u117	Thank you. And I think that's the last speaker, Senator Bobko. [[One more.]] Oh, and Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit. If the senator was offended by my perhaps not quite elegant wording, then, of course, I'm sorry. I thought it was a phrase... We often use the phrase "senators" here. But in this context, it may not have been very elegant, which I apologize for. And maybe one more thing, because you've come to me so hard, I'll be ashamed of myself someday. Well, I can't rule it out. If someone comes into politics and acts in a large group and engages in matters that are not fully affected, it cannot be ruled out that things will go wrong and people on our side will be able, I don't know, not to be satisfied that they were involved. So far, I hope and believe that it will be different, that what has been happening in Poland since 2.5 years, even though it is burdened with such or other shortcomings, is going in the right direction. And I hope that someday I'll have the satisfaction of it rather than the sense of shame. Well, even in this context... Because what you're saying here is that we've come up with this reform of the judiciary for unknown reasons. Here Senator Klich described such a brilliant reality of recent years, when all standards were respected, no one was picking on us... Even if we separate the prosecution from the Minister of Justice, the standard that is already in Morocco, we go back to the African countries... Well, Mr. Senator, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's great. The surgeries were going well, everything was cool, only the patients were dying. I mean, in quotes, of course. 'Cause we see how the independent D.A.'s office worked. Well, with some fear, I think, we all unveil it, we're even exposed in the committees of inquiry, how it actually worked. And it really scares the hell out of me. And our reforms, perhaps sometimes awkward, are trying honestly to remedy such situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u119	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. First... Because Senator Radziwiłł was just finishing his speech, praising these changes and referring to his experience in the local government. I think if the senator wants to be consistent in his statements, then... Then I will expect such an initiative that the Sejm chooses the doctors who are to sit in your local government. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Because as far as I know, the doctors are going. And, as I understand it... [[But they're not power.]] But we're talking about local governments and she was... [[No...]] No, but the senator used that argument. I refer this argument to consideration, because maybe this is a good way for all local governments to be chosen by the Sejm. But I will get back to the point and to our conversation with the new President. Mr. Chairman, I've asked you a few questions. Because, Mr President, the arguments that were politically put forward as a justification for these changes focused on two issues: the failure of justice, as you said... I said in our debate that I share this opinion and indeed something should be done. But what did we get in return? In return, we have just received new judges appointed by politicians who will manage the National Judicial Council. And you, during the whole debate, could not explain how you would help citizens and how you, rather than one of the judges elected by judges, would push our debate. If you look objectively at all the actions relating to the justice system, you'll see that there's been no radical stand-up within two and a half years. Have you ever heard of a spectacular increase in the justice budget? Because, for example, the IPN budget I don't know if you know that you've been raised by 20% or 30%. I would understand that if you put money in the justice system, either for new jobs or for the tooling of courts, it changes something. If anyone tried to see what your Deputy Prime Minister Gowin's reform of today, actually canceled as one of the first things, then... If you were, I mean. If most people had taken a similar initiative, I would have understood... then your argument that this is what citizens expect. And you've said that many times today. It would make sense. But what can be really brought about by the reform that is being discussed here? To shorten the term of office. That's what this was all about. After all, that was the idea of choosing a whole new government. Did you get such a change in the operation of the National Judicial Council, or did you get such tools that you could do more with your choice? From this pulpit You answered me: and what I can, after all it is described in the 10 points of the first ones, these are your words. And we really only have this little piece of shit and there's nothing more we can do. You said it. So I'm asking you if you've got any tools in all of this... If you're a new man, if you think it's a good change, what tools did you get in this bill to make this good change? I do not see a significant extension of competence in the KRS Act. And finally, I'll say I do. And I'd like to hear it from you today. This second argument... In 2017 before the change of regulations, I will use the words of Senator Radziwiłł here. A provocation against the judge's condition; most of these statements were simply provocation and defamation. I thought you were gonna come here and say this: I'm from another story and I'm gonna change, but you can't bring everything about a few judges down to the common denominator, say it's a caste, that it's some kind of mafia and that it's a deal. I have not heard this from you, and you have the full right, the power, the duty and the position to say such words in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u121	Thank you very much. And Senator Klich, I hope he's the last speaker. Second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u122	This will be in relation to what Senator Bobko said, which referred to my earlier statement. I have just authorized for one of the portals a very favorable assessment of your partial independence, which you have won over the last few months in this House. And I have to say that I find it very satisfying that you're still in orbit of the same camp, but as a free electron orbiting somewhere far away from its center. That's what I value, just as I appreciate the fact that as students of one, the same master... You're following his important maxim, because Fr. Professor Józef Tischner used to say that when a man does not know what to do, his conscience tells him only one thing: look. Only you stopped, Mr. Senator, in your search. I would very much like you to move on. I encourage you to do so honestly. I also encourage you to remove such blockades It's the kind of blockage you get when you're in some kind of political community. In this very search that you expressed in your last speech. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's not like that, Mr. Senator Bobko, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that someone from the opposition thinks it's ideal to operate in the practice of the model of the Polish judiciary that we've been pursuing for 25 years, because there's nothing perfect. on this land. But we believe, and international organisations believe so, all of them, about one, that that model was in line with the international rules that Poland either ratified or considered important. We are convinced that that model should be reformed in practice. But not blown up! But not replaced by another model, which is part of what a leader of a small Central European country calls a model of non-liberal democracy. A democracy that does not respect civil liberties and human rights. I'm talking about Viktor Orbán. This model is implemented in Poland in the judicial system by means of these laws, which recently I'll say it again. Even the United Nations, through its rapporteur, criticises. And even the United Nations recognises that it is not in line with international standards. What's more... I didn't want to say that, so to speak, to beat your president with this UN Special Rapporteur report and I didn't read the recommendation, but in the recommendations, in the last point, in point E, the Special Representative clearly states that he recommends that the law on the National Judicial Council be supplemented, amended to agree with the constitution and international standards. In particular, it recommends removing from its provisions a procedure to be chosen as members... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...the National Judicial Council... I'm almost done. ...15 representatives who are elected by the political body. I, secondly, recommend that all current members of the National Judicial Council be removed from these records. These are two recommendations, the UN recommendations. Well, for God's sake, if everyone's talking about it, if all our friends and allies, everyone we're in an alliance with or in a friendship, tells us that we're acting badly... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...so let's think about it, about their voice. If this is the case with the laws introduced by the PiS in Poland and completed later, as the President said, on the basis of the reports of 18 people per 10,000 judges in Poland, then consider whether you are making a fundamental mistake. So, Mr. Senator Bobko, I'm asking you to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Everyone's wrong. The Venice Commission, the Human Rights Council, a special envoy of the United Nations, the European Commission, the Department of the United States, and recently the new ambassador of the United States who is going to Poland. No one is right, and the opposition is wrong. If you wanted to reform the judiciary in good faith, the first thing you had to do was talk to the opposition. You had to negotiate, talk, convince, not push at night, within 24 hours, knee, per fas et nefas. Just to realize your vision. Unfortunately, this vision leads to the submission of all judicial authority, from top to bottom, to governing parties. This vision has also been encountered, in an understandable way. After all, who understands the independence of the judiciary better than the judges themselves? A firm resistance can even be said to be a boycott from the judicial community. Because yes, Mr President, it must be read that out of 10,000 judges have agreed to report 18. This is a disaster! It is also a clear signal that the judge's community does not accept what has been done. I don't know what those who decided to report to the National Council of Judgments or the courage or submissiveness were headed by, because it could have been anyway. I don't cross out those judges who are on the National Judicial Council. Because it is very possible that they will act in accordance with their conscience, in accordance with law and constitution, as judges who will not be subject to external influence But I have great concerns about it, and it's not just me, because it's also a large part of Polish society and most judges. The reform of the National Council was also done under the motto of removing pathology and increasing efficiency, i.e. eliminating the chronicity of processes 'Cause their chronicity is actually a problem. But what did you do about it? It can be said that the new National Council works very briefly, but you have had such problems and you see problems such as the unprecedented dismissal of presidents or vice-presidents by the Minister of Justice, and no one forbids you from doing so. Have you taken care of any of this kind of business? Have you dealt with the signals that judges who do not judge the PiS in their own way are dismissed or threatened with disciplinary penalties? For example, Suwałki, there are press signals... Did the National Council address these issues? Or is that not true? If so, it's all the more important to deal with it. Or is that true? Who's gonna defend the judges, who's gonna defend their independence, who's gonna defend their independence in court, if not the National Judicial Council? Mr. Chairman was asked who filed it with the National Judicial Council. Well, the minister... the Marshal of the Sejm refused to tell you who had submitted these 18 candidates to the National Council. And you refused, you only pointed out one judge who is your brother. Mr President, this is not a good situation for a brother to report to his brother. It's not a good situation when a wife reports her husband or vice versa. This is not an ethically clear and good situation. But it's a good thing you told me. And I want to tell you directly what my assessment is. The efficiency after the reform. Well, in fact, the new National Council, which is completely new and cut off from that not structurally, but mentally undoubtedly, does not want to be the continuation of the previous... It's hard to judge how it's going to work right now. I try to be optimistic, but looking at other bodies that have been reformed... Well, the Constitutional Tribunal had previously been to be disabled, slow, and this present one was to be much better. What's going on? Well, you can go and see how this Constitutional Tribunal works. Approximately 1/3 of the previous efficiency. And let us also look at whether this Constitutional Tribunal has authority or whether the President of this Tribunal has exercised authority. I do not, of course, wish that this authority is similar to that of the President. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, there were voices that we should translate these changes and that if anyone understands them, they would accept them. We, who were opposed to these changes, talked about what they lead to and why are they, should we explain? Let those who voted for them and in Poland and abroad explain. When they ask me abroad for reasons, I am in a difficult situation, but that doesn't mean that I'm going to lie and say that these are good changes, going in the right direction, which make the courts independent, more efficient, and better judgment. I'm not gonna talk like that because I'm not gonna lie. On the basis of what is happening with the Constitutional Tribunal, I can say that the situation is clear to me. And I am surprised that among the senators of the ruling party these reforms do not give rise to reflection, the so-called. reforms do not cause controversy. Surely, at your closed meetings, you are also discussing the matter. And I hope you're discussing this honestly and substantively. If there was an opportunity to file an application for rejection of this report, I would have made such a request, but there is no possibility. I would reject them not because I believe that the Court was operating very badly. It would be a motion that should be a protest against what you will do with the judiciary. And Mr President will probably be responsible for that too. [[Mr. Marshal, I regret to say that time has passed.]] [[Voice from the room: This report from the previous term of office... Sorry.]] [[Conclusion.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u125	I state that the list of speakers in the discussion has already been exhausted. I would therefore like to ask the judge if he would like to comment further. If so, please come to the podium. To a concise statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not wish to take up any more time, because my speech was quite long and, I think, rather detailed, but I also feel that, after making some comments and questions, there is still such an expectation of the High House that at least some of these statements will be referred to in some way. So maybe I'm not even chronologically, but in the order in which I've been writing, I'm just going to refer very briefly to these issues and quickly. Well, Senator Borusewicz raised such a question as to whether he referred to my statement, who reported me. I'll just remind you that I explicitly replied that I volunteered myself, and I only mentioned my brother in this context that he had given me support as one of several dozen people. Therefore, I do not share this comment that this is ethically questionable. Senator Klich, referring to a special report by the commissioner or some reporter... [[Rapporteurs.]] ...the reporters and recommendations for the reform of our judiciary, said that this report was devastating and would not want to kill me by developing this thread. It seems to me that a recommendation report not about rejection in extenso, but about additions or certain changes, and limited to 2 points, is not a crushing report, but is a balanced report. Well, there's no reason to feel too negative or over-rated and consequently burdened. Senator Pociej asked the question that in these new laws we received as KRS tools to help us improve the judiciary. I will answer that our tasks as KRS are limited. The KRS is only one element of the whole system. We have not received new tools, but also these new tools are not needed, because the ones we have are sufficient. There are major tasks to be done, including some backlogs from past years, e.g. when it comes to the cast of vacant posts in courts. I don't think there was... It is over-interpretation that the sole purpose of the amendments was to shorten the term of office of the members of the National Courts of Justice, when the term of office of the 13 members of the National Courts of Justice expires in March 2018. Therefore, this whole discussion and the important legislative work that was carried out in 2017... Well, it would not be justified to achieve such a relatively modest goal as shortening the term of office to initiate such broad actions. In the case of changes concerning the National Courts, the aim was to restore, and I will repeat, the social control carried out by Parliament over the judiciary. Senator Sztark has assessed my denial of her mistake of being a member of the bar as if I were denying this belonging or wishing to be a member. I explain that I did not react harshly, but relatively quickly, because this was the last statement I reacted to. I could react a little more to others because I just had to remind myself what it was about. Here the issue was relatively fresh. I'll remind you... I will give you a fact which is not known to the High House that I was a member of the bar in the past, namely in Wrocław an attorney-client applicant for a certain time. From that time, I have some insight into the work of lawyers, into the work of this environment, giving basis for better relations, better contacts. I don't think that gives any reason to believe that I have to deny anything here. Maybe I can explain the question of the Lord's name, because it seems to me that it can lead to some undeserved media fame. Well, I didn't use this phrase, judging the previous compositions of the National Court of Justice, but I was quoting the opinions that I had heard about it here and there. And maybe in the end, I will briefly address these thanks from Senator Klich regarding my honesty, which allowed him to see this ratio: 18 to 10,000. Well, I didn't reveal anything new here, this data has been available for a few months, so assigning me a role in noticing this proportion is undeserved. I would like to add, however, that this ratio can be somewhat confusing. And here I am referring to a certain intuition of Senator Radziwiel. Because solutions so far, i.e. this self-government model, involved a certain pre-selection of candidates, with the system, you can say, electoral. In each region, the number of candidates was reported for vacant posts under such a pre-selection by the judicial associations, which was virtually no different from the number of places available, or those differences were quite small. Knowledge of this allows us to look more realisticly at this proportion. So that the proportion of 18 to 10,000 can be misleading in this context. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u127	Thank you, Judge. Dismissed until 3:15 p.m. [[Voice from the room: No, not yet.]] [[Voice from the room: More information that the Senate has become familiar with...]] I state that the Senate has read the report, the information of the judge, and therefore I am declaring a recess. After the break, there will be a vote. It's 3:15. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 48 to 15 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u128	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 27, 28 and 29 June 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. In addition, I would like to inform the senators that on 6 June this year, the Seniors Convention gave an opinion on the revision of the agenda of the Senate's work in July. The 60th meeting, originally scheduled for 17, 18 and 19 July this year, will be held on 10 and 11 July. The Convention also gave an opinion on the agenda for the work of the Senate until January 2019. The current agenda of the Senate will also be provided by e-mail. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: a statement that the candidates for Supreme Court jurors are left unattended. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution on this matter, which is contained in print No 830. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mątkow, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Commission adopted a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the determination to leave without further application of the candidates for the Supreme Court jury. The Commission calls for this resolution to be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, wait a minute, I'm sorry... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you gentlemen like to ask such a question? I can't see. I can't hear anyone. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, stating that the candidates for the Supreme Court jury are to be left without further delay. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one opposed, four senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution stating that it will leave without further application of the candidates for the Supreme Court jury. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 829. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs adopted unanimously at its meeting on 5 June a draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I'm gonna read this project. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismisses Senator Jan Dobrzyński from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, under the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Grzegorz Napieralski to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Print No 829. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. A meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 822 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Słoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at its meeting on 6 June 2018 considered the proposals submitted on 6 June 2018 in the course of a debate on the Law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and requested the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u134	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Andrzej Stanisławek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. [[No, no.]] I don't know... Mr. Senator, yes or no? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, I'm not interested.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm asking because you moved on, just not in that direction... That's why I asked. [[Don't call the wolf out of the woods.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 61 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 1 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you could please... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...about not disturbing me and myself... I don't know where I stopped reading. Okay, from the beginning. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 813 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 815 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u135	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Today, the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration took place at the break of the session in order to adopt proposals for the Act amending the Law The joint committees request the adoption of a law with an amendment to the article. Point 1, paragraph 1. Point 14 (3). All the members of these committees unanimously voted in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal concerns Amendment 1, which was rejected at the committee meeting by 5:9 votes. This amendment reduces the number of representatives of the pedagogical oversight body in the selection committee of the school head from 3 representatives to 2 representatives. The reasons for this amendment are as follows. The pedagogical supervisor at the selection stage of the school principal does not need to and should not be the dominant entity. The matter of running the school and the director is primarily a matter of self-government, a matter of the municipality that runs the school. This amendment If it is accepted, as I call for. It will restore the condition before the so-called. big education reform. I call for this amendment to be adopted, i.e. a minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u138	Thank you very much. Would the other Senator rapporteur still like to speak? And let me remind you that Senator Piotr Florek was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Thank you very much. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 makes it possible that the competition committee for the post of head of the school or establishment will comprise 2 and not 3 representatives of the pedagogical supervisor so far. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 against, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 aims to clarify the rules on the participation of representatives of trade union organisations in the competition committee for the position of head of the school or establishment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to apply... Just a minute. Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 2 against, and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 9]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 27 against. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Education Law. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment systems for market surveillance and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 817 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 seeks to ensure the law on terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was, of course, accepted. Amendment 2 indicates that the decision to prohibit the making available of a device must be preceded by a provision calling for the cessation of making available and setting a time limit for the implementation of the order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 3 clarifies the legal nature of the finding of formal non-compliance as a prerequisite for the market surveillance authority to initiate an administrative procedure aimed at eliminating the product from the market. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 4 seeks to harmonise the terminology used in the amending law and in the transitional provisions of the amending law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on the flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Senate Print Act No 818 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. They aim to clarify the rules on the taxation of buildings in the event of their disposal or transfer to use under a lease agreement by determining that the revenue in a given month will only be shown to the taxable person who held that measure in his records on the first day of that month. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendments 1 and 3 were accepted. Amendments 2 and 4 should also be voted on jointly. They aim to exclude from the minimum income tax those buildings which have been put into use in a small part. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 5 postpones the date of entry into force on 1 January 2019 of the rules on the presentation by taxable persons subject to minimum tax in their annual statement of data also relating to the various elements of that tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 88 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We return to the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Signs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendment of Senate print No 819 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 64 were in favour, 5 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Signs of Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on collective management of copyrights and related rights. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to Senator Print No 823 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. I have good news, ladies and gentlemen. I propose that we block amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15.33, 36, 37, 40, 42, 43 and 44. Is that okay with you? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[I made it up.]] I'll put this to the vote. Everyone's in. Thank you very much. We proceed to the voice room on these amendments. I'm not gonna read... You want me to read all these corrections now? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Voices from the hall: We all know them...]] You want me to read those corrections? [[Voices from the room: No.]] Okay, then I won't read. I'm just gonna read which ones are the corrections. These are amendments Nos 1 and 6, 8 and 10, 12 and 13 and 15 and 33 and 36, 37, 40 and 42 and 44. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] All the amendments mentioned above have been accepted. Amendment 7 reduces the minimum number of delegates from 100 to 50 delegates in the case of a collecting society of up to 1 000 members and from 200 to 100 delegates in the case of a collecting society of over 1 000 members. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 30 for, 59 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 11 aims to ensure that the declaration of the candidate for a member of the Management Board or audit committee on the absence of conflicts of interest can also be made on the date of selection Before the choice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 14 correlates the terminology of the Law with the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 34 correlates the law with the provisions of the Law on the conduct of regulated activities. The amendment adds a provision which sets out the grounds and conditions for the supervisory authority to issue a decision prohibiting the activity as an independent management body. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendments 35 and 39, which should be voted on together, clarify that disclosure by a collecting society of personal data to other organisations is one way of processing data. These amendments also eliminate the unnecessary reference to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, i.e. GDPR regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendments 38 and 41 should be voted on together. Amendment 38 complements the catalogue of provisions providing for the right to process personal data with entities which process data in connection with the exercise of the right to information referred to in Article. 48. Amendment 41 is the consequence of this amendment. In addition, Amendment 41 refers to the provision setting out the obligation to secure personal data also for data processed by the user. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendments 45 and 46 should be voted on together. These amendments add the missing transitional provisions specifying inter alia: the impact of the Act on contracts under which collective management is exercised, contracts for the use of works or related rights and contracts for the collection of remuneration concluded prior to the date of adaptation of the conditions for the conclusion of such contracts to the requirements of the Act or before the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 85 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on collective management of copyright and related rights. We are back to discuss item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in Senate print No. 826 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to give me the results... In a minute. Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 62 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 60th meeting... How many are saved? [[Two.]] Two. Good. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the first 60th meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to make a statement? Please, the first senator is Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome, Senator. [[Can I have it on the spot?]] Mr. Senator, may I speak to Senator Chudowska? [[The senator is already helping me here...]] Good. Then we are waiting for Senator John Filip Libicki, who will be the first to make a senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three statements. I hope I can fit in the time limit. The first statement is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwińska, and it is of the following content. 9 September 2015 Poland has concluded an agreement with Ukraine on granting Ukraine credit for the repair of roads leading to border crossing points. Among those roads which are to be renovated from this loan is the road of Jaworów, Hruszew, which is 19.5 km long and has a local road designation according to Ukrainian markings 0142001. The tender for the construction of this road was won by Drog-Bud from Częstochowa and the completion of these works is scheduled for 30 November 2019. This is a road that is actually an important road for the towns cooperating in partnership with the municipalities of my constituency. If I understand correctly from the letter I received from the Ukrainian side, work on this road in the design and build system has stopped at the moment, because from our Ministry of Finance, as I say, this letter lacks written confirmation that the contractor, i.e. the company Drog-Bud, will receive appropriate funds from this credit agreement. In view of the fact that, as I said, this is an important road for the municipalities, which are the partner municipalities of my district, I would like to ask the Minister for appropriate information on this matter. And this is the first statement. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Namely, I received a letter from Mr. J.D. from Cracow, dated 13 May 2018, which informs me that the financial pyramid has been operating for years in Cracow. The writing is very long and extensive. Because I wouldn't want to compromise the accusation that I'm ignoring it, I'm gonna allow myself to attach this letter to my statement. I'm asking the Minister to investigate this case. Finally, the third statement, which I am sending to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Joachim Brudziński, to the Refugee Council and to the Head of the Office for Foreigners. I am directing this statement as president of the Polish-Kirgist bilateral group. Namely, Mrs. R.D., a Kyrgyzstann citizen, a parliamentarians' wife... not a wife, but a Kyrgyz parliamentarians' sister, who, because he discovered a certain corruption, is currently being persecuted in various ways, also in such a way that he spent some time in prison. This lady, referring to this situation, has requested asylum for herself and her family, but she has been denied this asylum. I would therefore like to ask, if, of course, the procedures provide for these institutions and persons to whom I have addressed to me to give me information about the status of this lady and whether she can count on such asylum. Thank you very much. I think, Mr. Marshal, I fit in the time limit?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u140	I've been checking it out. Yes, you fit in the senator's time. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now, Senator Chudowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Mr Jerzy Kwieciński, Minister of Investment and Development. I'm asking you to answer the questions I'm about to ask the Minister. First, a few words of comment. Well, I was approached by employees, or actually by the Board of Polish Railways Cargo SA from Lower Silesia. Due to the ongoing construction of the first Mercedes-Benz engine plant in Poland, which will be located in the town of Jawor located about 70 km west of Wrocław in the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone, I ask questions in the following range. 1. Have work been carried out on the construction of the railway siding enabling the transport of components for engines and the export of finished assembled engines? 2. Have the issues concerning the selection of the rail operator for train transport already been addressed? It's whether it's a Polish or a German operator. The new Mercedes-Benz Manufacturing Poland will produce four-cylinder petrol and diesel engines for Mercedes-Benz passenger cars. Given the important interest of our country, it is important that transport is carried out in a safe and environmentally friendly way and that the transport gesture is commissioned by Polish logistics service providers. One such entity is PKP Cargo SA, the leader of rail freight in Poland and the second largest operator in the European Union. The PKP Cargo SA Group, as a significant logistics operator in Europe, provides professional management of the integrated logistics service chain. It continues to take steps to expand and improve its transport offer. The company introduces new products tailored to the growing expectations of customers, provides comprehensive service and improves the quality of the services provided. For customers' purposes, 67 thousand wagons of different types and 2.6 are available. a thousand locomotives intended for the transport of all types of goods, raw materials and other materials. I kindly ask the Minister to present the government's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'm asking Senator Stanislaw Gogach to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The senator's statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. On 28 May this year. I attended a meeting of more than 200 inhabitants of Łuków Municipality and Stanin Municipality in Zalesie, during which the meeting was a discussion about African swine fever in these municipalities and in general the district of Łukow. And during this very meeting, a petition was handed to me by the inhabitants of the Łuków and Stanin municipalities for the eradication of pigs due to the presence of ASF virus in wild boars. And now I'm going to present the extensive parts of this petition. We farmers of the Łuków commune and the Stanin district of Łukow protest against forced slaughter of healthy pigs, which leads to deprivation of funds for the maintenance of families and liquidation of family farms. Please be informed that blood tests have been carried out on our farms for a long time and no outbreak of ASF pigs has been detected. Therefore: 1. We demand that the red zone be lifted. 2. Deferral from enforcement of immediate enforceability decisions issued by the Deputy District Veterinary Officer... And then there's this: - Okay, We demand that the sources of ASF's spread be eliminated by a complete wildfire. 5. We demand permission to maintain multi-directional production, because the production of pigs and cattle and other pets is our centuries-old tradition. We ask for a positive examination of our demands and we support our petition with signatures. It's about 200 signatures, they've been handed over to me. Also the councilwoman of the commune of Łuków, Elżbieta Dynak, along with a delegation of farmers, asked me to come to my senator's office with the following request. I ask Mr Senator, on behalf of all the farmers in the district of Łukow, to help with the situation with regard to the ASF virus, which results in the slaughter of pig flocks in farmers. Following an inspection carried out by a veterinarian on one day, a decision to slaughter pigs shall be issued on the other day, with immediate rigour of feasibility until 30.06.2018. I would like to inform you that the ASF virus has been found in wild boars in the forest with occasional cases, not in a farmer's pen. Why are we farmers supposed to knock out healthy pigs as well as deprive us of breeding, as is our livelihood for families? These are the two positions. Yet, Prime Minister, the position of the Council of the Stanin Municipality, in which the councillor's position, among other things, states: "The consequence of the emergence of ASF virus is the deterioration of the situation of many family farms, which are in the commune and remain exclusively from agriculture. They face the risk of bankruptcy and bankruptcy. On many occasions, it is these family farms that hold a small number of pigs (up to 50 pcs).), are the main source of living and the basic source of food for whole families. All the more worrying is information about the need to eradicate small flocks of pigs provided by the district veterinary services. In the event of the liquidation of the source of livelihood of these holdings, they will be deprived of the basic means of living. Councillors of the municipality of Stanin appeal, among others. the total elimination of wild boar populations which pose the greatest threat to the spread of ASF virus, to provide farmers with financial assistance in complying with bioinsurance rules and to restore the liquidity of the pig market. Councillors also consider it unjustified and lacking legal grounds for the action of the district veterinarian in Łukowo issuing immediate decisions on the necessary eradication of pig herds. Moreover, they are issued where no outbreak has been found on any holding in the municipality. The councillors believe that pigs must not be allowed to stop breeding in the commune, district and the entire Lublin province. Joint actions by government administrations, local authorities and veterinary services should contribute to reducing the spread of ASF virus while respecting the needs and opportunities of small farms. And at the end of this statement, I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the wording of the article. The 45th Animal Health Act, which this article gives a very large authority to the district doctor. I would like to ask whether the doctors of the county should take more account of the situation of family farms which, in connection with the ASF, are at risk and are asking for help using their powers under this article. Please, Prime Minister, please take an interest in this situation and please respond to this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I'd like the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz. Dear Minister, For a long time we have seen an increase in influence of extremely nationalist, neo-Bander groups in Ukraine. They are not limited to a narrow, marginal group, but their ideology is accepted, recognized or at least tolerated by the official authorities of Ukraine, starting from the central, peripheral, and ending with district and council. Glorifications of Ukrainian pseudo-bohaters such as Bandera, Shuchevych, members of the CNS or UPA include. acts of criminalising the violation of the so-called "infringement'. the good name of the representatives of the flagship, as well as exhibiting monuments and other commemorations to them, street and square names. This is generally related to the forgery of history, the denial of Ukrainian responsibility for genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska. To this end there are unexplained attacks on Polish diplomatic posts in Ukraine, bans on entry into Ukraine for Polish citizens, preventing Poland from carrying out search and exhumation works and a worthy burial of our fellow citizens murdered in the East. Unfortunately, Minister, I do not see the decisive reactions of the Polish side to these facts, including in particular the Ministry led by you. If I am wrong, then I would ask you to present the official government and ministerial documents for this term of office, i.e. from the end of 2015, to Ukraine, where the problems and threats described would be identified and stigmatized. I would also ask you to present the official position of the Minister, possibly the government, if there are any negative and hostile phenomena in Poland that occurred in the last 2.5 years in Ukraine. If it has already been formulated and published, please attach it to the reply to the statement, for which I thank you in advance. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u147	Message. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, scheduled for 8 June 2018, will be held today immediately after the end of the sitting in room 182. The agenda remains the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-senat-61-2.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 00]]
