ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and ladies and gentlemen of the senators It's about taking your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. We're reconvening. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that Senator Maciej Grubski has made a statement of his consent to be held liable for the actions specified in the application of the Chief of Lodz Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Łódź, filed with the Senate Marshal through the Deputy Prosecutor General on 22 December 2017. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut. I would like to remind you that on 19 December 2017, the Regional Prosecutor in Katowice, via the Attorney General, asked me to agree to be held liable and to arrest Senator Stanisław Kogut temporarily. I would also like to remind you that Senator Stanisław Rogut has made a statement of his consent to be held liable for the actions specified in the application. I would like to inform you that I have sent the prosecutor's motion to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. I would also like to remind the senators that part of the reasons for the prosecutor's request contains confidential information. This part of the justification was available at the Chancellery of the Senate, where you could get acquainted with it. Dear Senators! In view of the fact that information covered by the confidential clause may be discussed in this item, I would like to inform you that I am about to apply for the adoption of the secrecy of the Senate. Within the meaning of the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information, this will be a confidential part of the deliberations. Before submitting a proposal, I would like to present some important procedural issues to you and propose a way to proceed with the request for secrecy. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall determine the confidentiality of sittings at a secret meeting. I would like to stress that this confidential meeting will only be held if you expect a broader justification for the request for secrecy. In such a case, the confidential meeting shall be held following the interruption of the sitting in room 217. However, if you do not expect a detailed justification for the proposal and no one will want to speak, we will proceed immediately. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the motion to pass the secrecy of the deliberations will be carried out in accordance with the Rule. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate at the open part of the sitting by means of voting apparatus. I would like to remind you that the Senate is adopting a resolution on the confidentiality of the proceedings by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. Dear Senators, as announced... [[Talking in the O.R.]] As announced, I am filing a request for the adoption of a confidential part of the Senate's deliberations in order to agree to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut. Would any of your senators like to speak on my motion? If no one is taking the floor, we shall proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on my proposal. I would like to remind you that the Senate is adopting a resolution on the confidentiality of the proceedings by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. This means that the Senate will be held in secret if more votes are cast in favour than the votes against and the abstentions will be put together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 87 senators voted, 63 for, 9 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The absolute majority of votes required shall be 44. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the confidentiality of the deliberations in item ten of the agenda. In view of the adoption of the request for secrecy, I would like to present how the Senate's further deliberations will look. I would like to inform you that there will be an adjournment in a moment to allow you to move to room 217. The secret part of the session will not be transmitted, and the transcript from this part will not be published. The proceedings of the meeting shall be established in accordance with the rules applicable to classified meetings. Only senators and staff who have access to classified information of at least a confidential clause will be able to participate in this section. In addition, I would like to inform you that during this part of the session no notes can be taken, images, sound recording and communication can be made through multimedia devices. I therefore ask you to leave in the sitting room all documents, briefcases, handbags and devices enabling the recording or transmission of images and sound, establishing communications and other devices enabling the disclosure of information such as cells, tablets, watches, etc. You will also be able to deposit these devices in front of room 217. Prior to entering room 217, you will have to undergo every check at the detection gate and, if necessary, a check carried out also with other instruments used to detect these devices. I would also ask you to confirm your presence at this part of the sitting on a separate attendance list. This list is already in front of O.R. 217. During the secret part of the session, a report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs will be presented and a hearing of Senator Stanisław Rogut will be possible. After the end of the secret part of the session, we will return to the sitting room for the next part of the public sitting and vote on the Senate's consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut. The vote will take place at the open part of the sitting, together with other votes. I kindly ask the senators to enter room 217 into the secret part of the session, because it takes a long time to get through the gates of all senators. Places in the room... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't announced a break yet, and then there will be questions. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Places in room 217 were marked according to club membership. I declare adjournment until 10.40 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 09 to 10 minutes 41]] [[A fragment of the transcript classified pursuant to Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate]] [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 25 to 14 minutes 31]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the Secretaries to take the seats at the presidential table and the States to take their seats. Mr and Mrs Senators, I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has decided to change the agenda of the meetings in February this year. The next Senate meeting will be held on 31 January and 1 February 2018 and not on 7, 8, 9 February. The agenda for this meeting will be forwarded to you by electronic means. In addition, I would like to inform you that the second February meeting That's also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Oh, thank you so much for your help. In addition, I would like to inform you that the second February sitting of the Senate will take place on 14th, 15th and 16th February and not, as previously planned, 21st, 22rd, 23rd February. The revised agenda for Senate meetings will also be forwarded to you by electronic means. We would like to return to the discussion of the first item on the agenda: the 2018 Budget Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. This report is available in print No 700 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance held its meeting and recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I will mention the names of the senators who submitted their applications during the discussion. These are Senator Jarosław Duda, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Wiesław Kilian, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Marek Borowski, Piotr Florek, Bogdan Borusewicz, Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Marian Poślednik, Władysław Komarnicki, Waldemar Sługocki. I don't see any calls. Besides... Well, I won't read anymore, but... In addition, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki was the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Nobody wants to speak. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 60 votes against, 25 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Budget Law for 2018. [[Applause]] We're back to point three... Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Why not the other one? The other one now... Good. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 702 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 76 were in favour, no one opposed, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 706 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u4	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After a substantive discussion, the Commission recommends the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn have tabled legislative proposals during the discussion. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: a law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 701 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 86 were in favour, three abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 705 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees shall request the acceptance of the proposals set out in points 4, 8 and 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the other Senators still want to speak? The rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission was Senator Grażyna Sztark. Thank you. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Voice from the room: I think so...]] Yes or no? I'm sorry. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal, but thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment No 1 removes the use of the adjective "Polish" in relation to the central authority, courts and other bodies in family matters which are carried out in Poland under European Union law and international agreements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 30 for, 60 against. [[Voting No 6]] Correction... The amendments were rejected. Amendment 4 extends the deadline for filing a cassation complaint from 2 to 4 months. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 6 makes it clear that before authorising the role of foster family or the running of a family's home, the court shall seek the opinion of the aged person responsible for the place of future foster care. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 30 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 aims to ensure consistency of the rules. It makes it possible for proceedings to be taken again also on the basis of the order to take back a person under parental authority or who is under the care of a case under the 1980 Hague Convention. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 9, having regard to the granting to the District Courts of the right to deal with matters pending under the 1980 Hague Convention for the taking away of a person under parental authority or under custody, clarifies the jurisdiction of the court to which he applies for the taking away of a person under parental authority or custody. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the execution of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 704 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions recommend that the High Senate adopt the conclusions set out in points II, 3, 25, 27, 29 and 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u9	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept the conclusions set out in points I, 17, 18 and 23. In point I, there is a motion to reject the law. We talked about this last night. In turn, point 17 deletes point 29, point 18 of Article. Point 30 of Article 1 32 the words "Article" shall be deleted. 31a., paragraph 23, in Article 31a. point 39 is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Marek Martynowski, Grażyna Sztark. No? Thank you very much. In addition, the committee rapporteurs were Senator Zbigniew Cichoń The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski Minorities of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. You're not here. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 removes part of the provisions extending the definition of a reprivatisation decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Vote... Yeah, just a little bit longer. Chop-chop! I'm asking for the results. 87 senators voted, 13 were in favour, 70 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment No 2 eliminates regulations indicating that, in the course of its work, the Warsaw real estate reprivatization committee is required to clarify irregularities and shortcomings in the activities of the authorities and persons involved in reprivatisation proceedings and to confer on it the powers of the prosecutor in administrative and civil proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendments 3 and 29 should be voted on together. They determine that the members of the committee are treated as employees and are subject to social insurance and health insurance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Vote... [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] Yeah, but... No, one vote in favour and the other vote against. Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 4, 5, 9 and 20 will be voted together. They remove the amended institution of general proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 60 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 6. This amendment specifies that the file of judicial and administrative proceedings and other documents shall be forwarded to the committee within not less than 7 days of receipt by the court or body of the application of the chairman of the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 7. Amendment 7 aims to eliminate language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] This amendment was rejected. Amendment 9... [[Voice from the room: Eight!]] Yeah, eight. Amendment 8 aims to eliminate from the law the provisions sanctioning the use by the Commission of personal data collected in documents and files to which the committee will have access in the course of its proceedings and their processing without the knowledge and consent of the data subject. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 60 against, 1 abstention, 1 did not vote. [[Voting No 19]] Amendments 10, 11, 12 and 13 remove the amended increase in the maximum fine for unjustified non-compliance at the hearing before the committee or for leaving the hearing. They shall remove the rule excluding the admissibility of a complaint against refusal of a fine and allowing the commission to request the prosecutor to order the detention and to bring the requested person, who has persistently refused such a request. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] Amendments 14, 19, 22 and 24 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes the vote on Amendment 25. Amendments 14, 19, 22 and 24 delete, among others. a regulation allowing the committee to repeal a faulty reprivatisation decision and suspend the exploratory procedure in the event of an obstacle to a decision on the substance of the case and a provision conferring competence on the committee to annul the reprivatisation decision in the situations referred to in Article. 156 §1 of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 21]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 15 removes the amended regulation to extend the grounds for the re-privatisation decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 16 removes the provisions extending the legal possibility for the Commission to impose an obligation to reimburse the equivalent of an undue benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 62 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendments 17 and 18 should be voted together. Amendments 17 and 18 aim to remove the possibility for the Administrative Commission to impose a fine ranging from PLN 1 000 to PLN 1 million per natural or legal person who has committed infringements involving significant or persistent obstruction of the use of the premises in Warsaw real estate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 60 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 19 has already been voted on, and Amendment 20 has already been voted on. Amendment 21 removes the rule that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure relating to: established case-solving practice, the principle of amicable handling of cases, the exclusion of the body, mediation, settlement and appeals and complaints will be excluded from the proceedings before the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 23 deletes the provision prejudicing that the parties do not have the legal measures provided for in separate provisions to reopen the proceedings, repeal, amend or annul the decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 25. The purpose of this amendment is to eliminate the interpretation doubts arising from the various conditions for entering the perpetual book. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendments 26 and 28 delete the provisions governing the immediate restoration, based on the decision of the committee, of holding property of the Warsaw real estate tenant on the basis of a contract concluded with the municipality or the Treasury prior to the re-privatization decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 62 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 27 corrects the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 44 against. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Now Amendment 30. It introduces the right terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted against, 63 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 30]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 Senators voted, 62 votes against, 27 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposal presented during the debate and prepared a report on the subject, which is in print No 703 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 18 January this year, the Commission examined the proposals made during the debate on 18 January this year on the Law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage and the electronicisation of workers' files and presents the following position to the High Senate: the High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point I, i.e. a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Zbigniew Cichoń want to speak again? [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted against, 69 against, 6 against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Jan Rulewski responsible. We proceed to the vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Jan Rulewski responsible for the offences. The Senate agrees to hold the senator responsible for the offences by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on the non-approval of the senator's liability for the offence. The vote on personal matters shall be secret and shall be taken using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries Senator Mark Pęk, Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots, and your senators to fill out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, have all the senators received ballots? They all did, didn't they? I see. I ask Senator Mark's Secretary to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order, and I ask the senators, once they've read their names, to put a full ballot in the urn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u14	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u15	Thank you very much. Have all the senators voted? Everyone, right? Thank you very much. Now I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 3:15. Ten minutes. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 05 to 15 minutes 15]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Jan Rulewski responsible. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. Protocol of the secret ballot of 19 January 2018 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Jan Rulewski liable for the offences. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a secret ballot Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła They state that 90 votes were cast in a secret vote regarding the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to be held liable for the offence of Senator Jan Rulewski, including 90 votes valid 36 senators voted in favour of consent against 49 senators. Five senators abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required is 51. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to be held liable for the misdemeanor of Senator Jan Rulewski. We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. We proceed to vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Lydia Staroń to criminal liability. The Senate agrees that the senator should be held liable by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the senator's criminal liability. The vote on personnel matters is classified. It is done using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the Secretaries of Mark Pęk, Rafał Ambrozik and Jerzy Wcisła. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. Once the ballots have been filled out, the senators will enter the transparent ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. Now I ask the secretaries to hand out the ballots, and I ask the senators to fill out these cards. [[Voice from the courtroom: Do you have a marshal?]] Yeah, I got it, I got it. Did all the senators receive the ballots? [[Voice from the hall: Marcus, do you have any cards?]] [[I've got the cards.]] Did everyone get the cards? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Well, I'm asking that the senators who haven't received receive it. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, have all the senators received ballots? I take it you do. I ask Senator Secretary Mark Pęk to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order, and I ask the senators to put their names in the ballot box after reading them. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u16	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u17	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Have all the senators voted? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have all the senators voted? I take it you do. Thank you very much. I'm ordering an adjournment... I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes. I'm ordering a recess until 3:33 p.m. Well, 10 minutes is enough. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 23 to 15 minutes 33]] We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I inform you that the senators have finished calculating the votes, they have drawn up a secret ballot, and I am announcing the results. Protocol of the secret ballot of 19 January 2018 on the consent of the Senate to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a vote of the Senate's secret secretaries Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisla They state that 89 votes, including valid 89 votes, were cast in a secret vote by the Senate of the Republic of Poland for the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. Three senators voted in favour, against 86 senators, abstained from voting... [[Again.]] [[How many was it for?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the transcript, you'll read it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, three senators voted in favour, 86 against, and no one abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required was 51. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the criminal liability of Senator Lydia Staroń. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut. We proceed to the vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut. The Senate agrees to the detention and temporary detention by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the arrest and provisional arrest of the senator. The vote on personal matters shall be secret and shall be taken using sealed ballots. I appoint Senators Marek Pęk, Rafał Ambrozik and Jerzy Wcisła to hold a secret ballot. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill in the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask Senator Mark's Secretary to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with secret ballots.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u18	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Maria Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u19	Have all the senators voted? Did everyone cast their votes? [[Zbyszek, did you put the card in?]] [[Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. Dismissed until 3:50 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there any doubts? [[Another senator...]] Excuse me? [[The senator just arrived...]] [[And the card's gone.]] [[I didn't get the card.]] But that's hard, I'm sorry... [[Mr. Marshal, what do you mean?]] But what? It's already been... [[Mr. Marshal, the vote is not over yet.]] [[He was in the bathroom.]] [[Yeah, but the vote... the senator showed up at the vote.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 40 to 15 minutes 50]] We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I declare the outcome of the secret ballot. Protocol of the secret ballot of 19 January 2018 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a vote of the Senate's secret secretaries Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Jerzy Wcisła They state that in a secret vote concerning the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland... [[This is a mistake, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me? [[There's a mistake here.]] [[I wasn't the secretary.]] Well, I read what it says. Who was? [[Ambrose.]] Who? [[Voices from the room: Ambrosik.]] Ambrose. And the name? [[Raphael.]] Raphael. [[Ambrosic and Tight.]] Jerzy Wczyła... Yes? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] I'll read it again. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a vote of the Senate's secret secretaries Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła They state that 89 votes, including 88 valid votes, were cast by the Senate of the Republic of Poland in a secret vote on the detention and provisional arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut. 32 Senators voted in favour of the agreement, against the '37 and 19 Senators abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required was 51. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 50th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and make a statement? Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 15 January 2018, a meeting of the Senate Rule of Law Monitoring Group was held on the hearing of the members of the Cracow healing team in 2006. Jerzy Ziebra, as well as their families. who have requested public assistance to Parliament on the suspicion of misuse of the apparatus of state authority in a private case. The meeting was preceded by a preliminary hearing of other members of the healing team held in 2017 in Krakow. Despite the invitation to the meeting, neither Minister Zbigniew Ziobro nor other representatives of the judiciary came. From the hearing and questioning of these people, as well as from the opinion presented by two non-related patrons, a dramatic picture of the procedure for alleged or actual malpractice in medical art has emerged, which is conducted diametrically different from other such cases taking place in Poland. The members of the team strongly believed that because of the person who was asleep. the father of the Minister of Justice, this conduct bears numerous marks of abuse of the apparatus of justice in a private case. We therefore address the following questions to the Minister of Justice. Why has the case been going on for 12 years, while judicial practice in this type of proceedings, despite the general length of time in courts, shows that medical error cases last much less? Why have many experts with an oath to uphold objectivity and truth, who dared to give opinions other than those expected by the dead's family, experienced interrogations and searches, which in itself is an unacceptable and unacceptable conduct? Why was the state of the private prosecution changed from public to public in the course of the proceedings? Was this caused by the fear of statute of limitations, or by the fear of the family to bear significant judicial costs? Why was there a change in the qualifications of the alleged manslaughter charge for manslaughter, in other words, murder, during the proceedings? In the light of the explanations received and the publicly available knowledge, such an allegation seems absurd. Why, after the acquittal in February last year, did the entire healing team develop symptoms of harassment and administrative charges against the judge? Why are new areas of investigation emerging in the course of the proceedings, which are marked by the harassment of the clinic's team and significantly hindering the day-to-day functioning of the clinic and the treatment of patients who, in the number of more than 3.5 thousand per year, benefit from the services of the accused clinic? Why was the change of the President of the District Court in Krakow made in a shocking way 2 days before the mentioned case was brought in order to deal with it? Why are the members of the healing team being questioned repeatedly in the same cases that has brought nothing new after 12 years since the patient's death? What are the costs of this particular procedure with such a significant involvement of the judicial system, the prosecutor's office, the police and other services, especially in comparison with other medical malpractice cases that are being conducted in Poland? Senators have signed nine. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u22	Dear Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, On December 28, I intervened on the list of waterways of particular transport importance in which parts of the Vistula were missing From Płock to Dęblin, i.e. the planned construction site of the connection to the Muchaviec river and further to Dnieprem, and the connection of the Vistula Odra, the international waterway E70. From the reply I received, it appears that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping shares my view that these fragments of international waterways in Poland, covered by the ANN Convention signed by Poland, should have the status of waterways of particular transport importance, and their absence in the list stems from another position of the Ministry of the Environment. Due to the fact that on 9 January the water sector was assigned to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which is a good solution, please answer 2 questions. First. Does the Ministry intend to supplement the list of special transport routes with these sections? And the other. Shouldn't this list cover the entire Vistula from the envisaged connection point to the Silesian Channel until the estuary of the Vistula to the Baltic Sea, and therefore also the section Niepołomice Dęblin? And one more statement. I direct them to the Minister of Health, Mr. Łukasz Szumowski. Dear Minister, On 1 January 2018, the Elbląg branch of the Regional Blood and Blood Centre ceased duty 24 hours a day. This was the decision made by the director of the Olsztyn Centre branch. This is the next step in reducing the rank of the Elbląg blood ward. This means that in a 100-thousand city where there are 2 large hospitals serving a sub-region inhabited by 200 thousand people, in situations of danger of life after blood you will have to go to Olsztyn. This situation, despite the operation of blood banks in hospitals, dramatically reduces the level of safety of residents of the city and region, because blood is usually needed suddenly, at different times of day and in unpredictable quantities. Moreover, this decision will result in additional costs for blood transport both ways. First, the blood taken from the donors will be transported to Olsztyn, then the emergency mode will be brought back to Elbląg. I would add that in Elbląg, he gives an average of 20 donors a day. Approximately 5,000 units of blood are collected each year from 600 people. I ask the Minister to verify the decision of the Director of the Regional Blood and Blood Centre in Olsztyn. I hope that, taking into account the rations of Elbląg medical services and the social unrest that this decision has caused, you will bring back 24-hour shifts and the proper rank of Elbląg center of blood treatment and blood donation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-19-senat-54-3.u23	Thank you, Senator. Would anybody else like to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fiftieth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 16 minutes 01]]
