ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Piotr Olszówka, Daniel Milewski, Katarzyna Osos and Kinga Gajewska to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Piotr Olszówka and Daniel Milewski will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Katarzyna Osos. I consider the minutes of the 54th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. This is print number 2147. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. A group of citizens submitted a draft law amending the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion. The design is 2146. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - to amend certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage of employee files and their electronicisation, - amending the Law on specific rules on the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. These are prints No 2119 and 2132 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. Formal requests shall be made by Members. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a formal request for a recess. Reason: Mr. Marshal, the government is scheduled to be reconstructed today. As the communal news brings, Minister Waszczykowski is also to be dismissed in this reconstruction, and unfortunately Minister Waszczykowski has not been able to answer a very important question since mid-December - to ask what the Polish government is doing to protect our country from Jewish property claims, which is now really starting to pick up pace in the United States. On December 12, the American Senate passed a bill and went to the House of Representatives. The Congress of American Polonia is beginning to alarm, intervene. Unfortunately, this is the result of foreign policy over the past 2 years, because the influential Jewish environments have stated that since Poland is pursuing a unilateral policy of dependence on the United States, these claims can now be claimed. That is why I believe that Minister Waszczykowski should answer this question before he resigns, because it is potentially about tens of billions of dollars of claims against Poland. Today, this threat hangs over our country. He has not responded since mid-December, and it is important that a public debate is started in Poland and that the government responds to what it does to protect Poland from unauthorised Jewish claims that are being expressed today in the United States.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u3	Thank you. Request for a recess. Mr Marek Owl, Modern Club. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break, a convening of the Seniors Convention and the withdrawal from the agenda of the item on the report of the committee on the Government draft budget law for 2018. I am aware that the urgency and work on the state budget should be done by now, but there are a few circumstances here which are not indicated in a hurry. A month ago here, from this place, Prime Minister Morawiecki presented the priorities of his government. Instead of joining them, he focused on staff exchanges. Today, he will name nearly half of his ministers. Meanwhile, the priorities announced from this point of view are in no way secured in the state budget. A few quotes from the Prime Minister's speech: The first important task is health care. There's no decent life without good health care. There needs to be an increase in spending. What's it like? This is something that Poles who do not have health care can see every day. And there's nothing in the budget. Another quote: Antismog program. Clean air is a measure of whether Poland is really a mature country. Let me remind you that nearly 100,000 died prematurely in the two-year rule of law and justice because of smog. Poles. No action in 2018 is another 50,000. premature deaths. Is this the proper priority of the government - the increase in Poles' mortality? And finally, the third priority: the housing program. As you know, it ended after two days. There is no longer money in the state budget to support housing policy. This is the budget, and that is why a major change is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u5	It is a problem with this proposal, sir. However, with regard to the first formal proposal, I ask you, Mr Winnicki's request for a recess, he was justified by the question of Mr Waszczykowski's reference. Mr President, even if there is a change of Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will remain in office. It's going to be someone else, but it's not about the name, it's about the Foreign Minister's office. Therefore, I do not see the need to convene the Senior Convention, because I do not recall making a decision to terminate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister's amendment, if any, will take place by noon. 12. However, a formal request for interruption was submitted. In the second case... I would like to direct information and attention to Mr Owl: Mr Owl, this budget item was adopted stiffly 2 weeks ago and, in fact, it is quite complicated to take it off the agenda in this sense, because it is not entirely legitimate. On the other hand, the motion to delete this item from the agenda is indeed a formal proposal, but I remind you that the Sejm Bureau adopted the plan for the budget some time ago, which was accepted by the High House, is being implemented. The opinions of the Sejm committees and the budget committees shall be presented. Therefore, I think that the comments made by the Member can be met by making the right amendments. I might have seen it that way. For I do not see, to the end, the possibility of removing this item from the agenda where all the authorities of the Sejm have accepted it. For many weeks now, this plan has been implemented. But there's a request for a break. So I will put this proposal to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. [[But which one?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. There were 163 votes against and 249 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee submitted a report on draft resolutions on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, contained in print No. 2134. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the second reading of these projects. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament and the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints 2009, 2112 and 2134, will like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The vote was 8 against 412, and no one abstained. Almost everyone voted against. That's interesting. The Sejm has not accepted the proposal, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you that the Poselski Club has submitted a request to supplement the agenda with a point containing information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the issue of the national party-government information campaign on justice, in particular its objectives, assumptions, method of financing and compatibility of the campaign conducted by the Foundation with its statutory objectives. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the issue of the Polish National Foundation for Party and Government Information Billboard Campaign, etc. - I just read the whole sound - he's gonna raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 192 voted against - 230 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate in the debate on the committee's report on the draft budget law for 2018. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the implementation of the operational programmes for cohesion policy implemented by the European Funds in the period 2014-2020, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Economics and Development in conjunction with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - h.m. 17. Today, January 9th, at 3 p.m. 11 in the Seym in the main hall on the ground floor will be the official opening of the exhibition "Honor - Truth - Memory." Stalinist crimes in the Navy. The initiators of the project are invited by Małgorzata Zwierzan and Barbara Dziuk. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: The Future of Education - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Military and Territorial Defence - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u7	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of items 1st of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2018 (prints 1876 and 2073). I would like to ask Mr Sasin to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u8	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I inform the High Chamber that on 30 September 2017 the Government of the Republic of Poland passed to the Sejm a draft budget law for 2018. The first reading of this project took place on 11 October 2017. After the Sejm has failed to accept the motion to reject the draft law at first reading, the draft law in accordance with Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and its individual parts were sent to the relevant Sejm committees to submit to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments, together with justification. The draft budget law has been examined by the Committee on Public Finance in accordance with the timetable adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the result of this work is a report in print No 2073, to which 273 minority requests are attached. Before discussing the work of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget, the most important information on the macroeconomic assumptions adopted for the construction of the budget and the basic size of the state budget should be recalled. With regard to macroeconomic assumptions that were adopted several months ago, they can now be considered appropriate, given the recent figures of the Central Statistical Office, and the fact that the European Commission has recently increased its forecasts of growth not only in Poland but also in the European Union and in Japan. The government, when preparing the draft budget, assumed that in 2018 real GDP growth would be 3.8% , while the spring forecast of the European Commission - May 2017 - assumed GDP growth in Poland at 3.2% , whereas the macroeconomic forecasts of professional Polish forecast in June 2017 showed that GDP growth should not exceed 3.1% in 2018 up to 4.1% , so approx. 3,7% GDP according to the central forecast. The latest figures of the CSO for the three quarters of last year indicate that GDP growth may be higher than planned in 2017, i.e. higher than 3.6% in 2017. , since seasonally adjusted GDP was 4.4% in the first quarter , in the second quarter - 4,2% and in the third quarter - 5%. The macroeconomic projections of Polish professional forecasters in September 2017 indicated that GDP growth is likely to be between 3.9 and 4.2%. in 2017 and between 3,4 and 4,2% in 2018, which outlines the central scenarios for these years at 4 and 3.8% respectively. The latest autumn forecast of the European Commission also shows the following. This Decision shall enter Poland will continue to have a higher rate of growth than averages in the European Union and in the euro area, with a higher rate than in Poland being expected for only four countries of the European Union, i.e. Ireland, Malta, Slovenia and Romania. Inflation in Poland will reach 2,1% in 2018. So it's going to be lower than the Polish government started - and this assumption is 2.3%. - but at the same time higher than in the European Union, with an average of 1.7%. Inflation higher than in Poland is expected to occur only in six countries of the European Union, i.e. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Romania and the United Kingdom. Investment in the European Union will increase by 3.7% in 2018 , and in the euro area by 3.9%. In Poland this increase will be twice as high, estimated by the European Commission at almost 8%, 7.9%. Higher investment growth than in Poland is expected to have three countries of the European Union and a lower 24 countries, so Poland will be the leader when it comes to investment growth. The expected increase in investment by the Commission will be 0.3 percentage points higher than that of the Polish government, which assumed it to be 7.6%, which is associated with the acceleration of the use of EU funds from the current financial perspective 2014.2020. The faster and more efficient use of EU funds is particularly important for Poland, given the findings of the recent inspections of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The fiscal deficit of the public finance sector will amount to 1.1% in 2018 in the European Union. GDP, in euro area countries - 0.9% GDP. In Poland it is expected to reach 1.7% according to the European Commission GDP, i.e. is to be lower than the government assumed in the justification for the draft budget law for 2018. The government estimated this deficit at 2,7% GDP. In the view of the Monetary Policy Council, the deficit of the sector in 2018 may also be below the level indicated by the government. This would mean that the deficit in relation to GDP would still be lower than the limit resulting from European fiscal rules. The debt of the public finance sector will be 81% in the EU countries in 2018 GDP and 87.2% GDP in the euro area and in Poland it will be 53% GDP, so it's going to be relatively low. This means that in 2018 the sustainability of public finances will be preserved in Poland. With regard to GDP components, it can be recalled that the government assumes slightly lower export and import dynamics in 2018 than in 2017, thus maintaining a secure current account deficit of 1% GDP. At the same time, domestic demand is expected to increase by 3.9%. Returning to the assumptions adopted by the Polish government in the construction of the 2018 budget, it should be added that the labour market situation is expected to continue to improve in 2018. Average employment in the national economy is expected to be 10 457 thousand. people and the rate of unemployment recorded at the end of the period is set to fall to 6.4%. Average gross remuneration in the national economy will increase by 4.7% and will amount to PLN 4443 while average monthly pensions paid from the Social Insurance Fund will increase by 4%, i.e. to the level of PLN 2138 compared to the expected implementation of 2017 On the other hand, the average monthly agricultural pension, together with the allowances paid from KRUS, will increase to PLN 1120 and the pension - to PLN 1073. In the draft budget submitted to the Sejm for 2018, the government adopted revenue of PLN 335.7 billion, i.e. 3.5% higher compared to the expected implementation of 2017, and at the same time the forecast assumes an increase in tax revenue by 6.6%. The increase in budget revenue will mainly be influenced by the previously identified favourable macroeconomic factors and measures to rebuild the stream of tax revenue and to seal the tax system. These activities include: extending the scope of application of a single control file, i.e. better use of IT tools for detecting invoices documenting fictional activities, monitoring of road freight transport, launching the implementation of online electronic fiscal cash registers, introduction of so-called. the split payment mechanism or the introduction in CIT and PIT income tax legislation of solutions aimed at eliminating cases of application of the so-called aggressive tax optimization. State budget expenditure for 2018 has been established on the basis of the so-called. the expenditure rule contained in Article. 112aa Public Finance Act. According to it, an expenditure limit of PLN 397.2 billion was planned, i.e. an increase of PLN 12.4 billion. 3.2% in relation to the level adopted in the Budget Act in 2017. Thus, the share of expenditure in GDP will be 19.3% compared to 19.9%. in 2017. In the government bill for 2017... [[Eighteen.]] ...the funds were provided, among others.: for the financing of the scheme, the 500+ family; for the effects of reducing the retirement age to 60 for women and 65 for men; for the valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March 2018 with a rate of 102.7% ; to increase the limit on national defence expenditure, i.e. by more than PLN 3.9 billion compared to 2017; for the continuation of restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector; for the financing of housing tasks, including the housing package In addition, the draft law provides that the draft budget will continue to finance other tasks started in previous years, such as increasing access to pre-school education, financing regulations on free legal aid and legal education, securing funds for subsidies to agricultural fuels, and protecting vulnerable electricity consumers. In summary, it is worth noting that the 2018 draft budget will reflect the implementation of government priorities and electoral commitments. It will provide funding for the basic functions of the State while maintaining the sustainability of public finances. High Izbo! I will now go to the committee work and discuss the amendments adopted by the Committee on Public Finance. The work of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget took place from 25 October to 1 December 2017 in accordance with the agreed timetable. At its meetings, the Commission considered its own budgetary parts and the opinions of the other Sejm committees within the scope of the provision of the Marshal of the Sejm of 10 October 2017. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, opinions were presented on the sections of the budget discussed by representatives of other committees and correspondents on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, discussions were held, questions were asked and answers were given by government representatives and budget managers. Members also received opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office for use. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, Members presented the most important information from discussions at meetings of other committees and asked a number of specific questions about the planned budgets of certain entities enjoying the high budgetary autonomy mentioned in the article. Article 139 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 laws on public finances, including in particular the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm Chancellery, the Senate Chancellery, the Ombudsman, the Supreme Chamber of Control and the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National. Members' interest raised issues relating not only to dealing with public debt and government and local government debt in the future, but also to issues relating to the level of planned lower contributions to the State budget from State Treasury dividends. The answers received showed, among other things, that the Treasury does not expect dividends to be paid, but rather that the realised profits should remain in the Treasury companies and be invested by them. Lower dividends are also the result of lower profits of companies as a result of international competition, which is caused inter alia. import of artificial fertilisers from Russia. It is worth noting, however, that many of the issues raised in the discussions in relation to the policies of the State Treasury companies should have been discussed in the Commission for Energy and the State Treasury. Some Members were concerned about the level of remuneration in some individuals, including the fact that they were concerned. in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, or the existence of wage disparities, e.g. in the control bodies between the Supreme Audit Chamber and the RIO and the State Labour Inspection, or any other type of disparities, e.g. between courts and prosecutors, whether in terms of the proportion of financing expenditure from national and EU sources in agriculture or the financing of sport for children and young people through State special-purpose funds. This discussion also asked for a reduction in funds for the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection or insufficient expenditure of the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, according to the debaters. These issues have been clarified in detail and it can in principle be pointed out that some of the problems have been resolved by amending the 2017 budget and the amendments tabled to the 2018 draft budget, as well as by amending the around budget laws. This included, among others, the following: increase the expenditure of the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspections or expenditure on the prosecutor's office, as well as expenditure on culture and the protection of monuments. Some of the concerns of Members could be considered unfounded in cases where expenditure planned by the government in 2018 for certain areas, e.g. for agriculture, physical culture, science as well as PFRON are higher than in 2017. Members were also interested in infrastructure expenditure, especially road expenditure. The heated discussion in this area highlighted the need for better preparation of detailed information by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The information provided by the Ministry's representative indicated that the total expenditure planned for 2018 amounts to PLN 37.3 billion at PLN 27 billion in 2017. This, of course, concerns the infrastructure and construction department, as I was just talking about. The allocation for national roads in the current financial perspective is at the same level as in the previous perspective, i.e. PLN 40 billion, although in the current financial perspective the co-financing calculation system was changed from so-called. individual gaps on the so-called a flat-rate gap, i.e. the departure from funding converted by a complex algorithm for each single project to a solution in which for each project EU funding amounts to around 50%. The expenditure for the entire national road construction programme increased from PLN 107 billion in 2017 to PLN 135 billion, and the distribution of this expenditure over the years results from suggestions from the road industry. In addition, with regard to the issue of the financing of district roads or subsidies or the co-financing of local roads, the Ministry indicated that for the year 2018 the amount will be maintained as in 2017, but that the Ministry is working on a new source of financing for these roads, it wants the Fund for Local Roads to operate in this area. The discussion also concerned the housing programme. Here this discussion was also of a historical nature, referring to those programmes that had been in operation in previous years. There have also been discussions about the National Water Farm - Polish Waters - it is already within the scope of the other resort - and the financial possibilities of this new entity, which will manage Polish waters. There were many topics in the discussion and, of course, it is impossible to mention all those that have emerged in this debate on the budget. It should only be said that part of the answer was also given to Members by written means. With regard to the work of the committees to which the draft budget law was intended to be examined in the area of their competence, it is worth recalling that the Sejm committees have submitted a total of 26 opinions to the Committee on Public Finance, with a large majority of the committees not raising any objections to the draft budget law, accepting the Government's submission. Only some committees have put forward proposals for amendments, which in total were not much, which they were about to discuss. A total of 409 amendments were tabled to the draft budget law for 2018, including two amendments concerning the textual part. Among the amendments relating to the annexes to the budget: 143 amendments concerned the revenue of the State budget included in Annex 1 and indicated the need to raise tax revenue, mainly from the tax on goods and services, in order to finance the specific expenditure indicated in those amendments; 259 amendments concerned the expenditure of the State budget included in Annex 2 and these were mainly amendments reducing one expenditure in order to ensure that the other expenditure indicated in those amendments could be financed; six amendments concerned amendments to the other annexes. The committees have tabled 19 amendments and have attached five separate sentences to their opinions. Members tabled 385 amendments, most of which were tabled by Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. On the day of the votes, one amendment concerning the text was withdrawn and only 67 amendments, including one to the text, were accepted by the committee. The Commission has not accepted 341 amendments, the vast majority of which have been tabled again as minority proposals. The Commission did not accept any of the separate sentences or amendments on which the representative of the government, Minister Teresa Czerwińska, expressed a negative opinion. The Minister's reservations raised in particular those amendments where an increase in the revenue of the State budget from VAT under part 77 was indicated as a source of financing for additional expenditure, a reduction in expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt under part 79 and a reduction in the appropriations under the special-purpose reserve in item 79. 8 is the reserve for co-financing projects involving European funds. Thus, the proposed amendments provided for an increase in budget revenue of almost PLN 10 billion, including VAT of more than PLN 9 billion and thus significantly interfered with the revenue of the budget, without proposing changes in the tax system resulting in an effective increase in revenue. In this context, it was also recalled that the budget was only based on discretionary actions, a sum of PLN 10.7 billion was planned. Another group of amendments indicated as a source of funding - for a total amount of more than PLN 3.3 billion - appropriations from Part 79, which provides for expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt. Debt management expenditure shall comply with the provisions of the Public Finance Act and shall be priority expenditure. They are already largely determined. They are of such a nature in the budget law and therefore cannot be reduced. It is also worth recalling that in relation to GDP, the cost of handling debt will decrease to 1.49% in 2018 GDP. Amendments indicating as a source of funding the special-purpose reserve in item. 8 would significantly reduce this reserve - for a total amount of PLN 4.3 billion, i.e. they would absorb about 80% expenditure included in that reserve. This reserve is intended for national co-financing in the current financial perspective. Experience with the implementation of the previous financial perspective 2007-2013 shows that 2018 should be a groundbreaking year in terms of expenditure on European funds. By comparing the timetable or structure of expenditure over time, in the same year, i.e. in 2011, almost PLN 43 billion was spent under the Structural Funds, which constituted 15% the total allocation of funds allocated to Poland. If this amount relates to the current financial perspective, the expenditure should amount to about PLN 50 billion for the Structural Funds themselves. Therefore, given some delays in the implementation of the programmes in the current perspective, this amount should be even higher and the resources in the reserve are planned to amount to PLN 4.95 billion. In addition, Minister Teresa Czerwińska, a representative of the government, pointed out that some of the amendments were not legal. For example, the amendments concerning the reduction of expenditure in Part 29: National defence, i.e. the reduction of expenditure, which would de facto result in a reduction in the appropriations spent on defence in 2018, which would violate the provision of the Article. 7 Act of 25 May 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. According to this provision, expenditure from the State budget of not less than 2% shall be allocated annually for the financing of defence needs. GDP. As far as the other key sources of funding are concerned, the target reserve was indicated in item 1. 83: Funding for organizational tasks in Poland Exhibitions EXPO 2022 in Łódź. In this item, the total amount proposed in the amendments to the reduction of this reserve was PLN 276.1 million. However, with regard to this reserve, it should be noted that a vote took place at the seat of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris at the 162nd session of the International Bureau of Exhibition on 15 November 2017, which decided to transfer the right to the Expo organisation in 2022 to Argentina. As the government, on the initiative of the Minister of Development and Finance, secured the necessary financial resources related to Poland's application for the international Expo 2022 exhibition in Łódź, there was an opportunity to release or develop funds of this reserve in the total amount of PLN 360.3 million for additional tasks, including tasks financed by individual voivodships. Many of the amendments were just about transferring funds to the voivodships for the implementation of the tasks set out in the amendments. However, the Minister pointed out that in view of the lack of possibility to allocate the appropriations for the budgetary classification tasks in this vast number of amendments, it was possible to include them in the reserve envisaged under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 4 Public Finance Act in parts of the state budget, which is governed by individual voivodships. As the regulation of this article resulted in a reduction in the level, the planned expenditure under the reserve to 1% expenditure excluding grants to local government units, it has become necessary to amend the budget law for 2018, i.e. exemption from the application of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The 4th Public Finance Act. This solution allows for the financing of tasks in a flexible manner in different areas of public activity, of course under and after the applicable procedures and regulations. High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finances, after considering the draft budget law for 2018, together with the positions forwarded by the competent committees and having received an opinion on compliance with European Union law, requests that the attached draft law be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u9	Thank you very much. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 114 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, there's a change.]] There's a change. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Szewczak.]] Please, Mr Jan Szewczak, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish state's budget is in such good condition that today everyone is interested in reconstruction of the government. We can see from the press that it must be quite all right if you reporters are doing something else. [[Applause]] [[You can see it in government benches.]] On behalf of the club, I would like to say that what was impossible under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL has become quite possible, real and felt. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It is mostly felt in the budget and in the wallets of Poles, Mr. Clearly the vision of the state - the vision of the state - the vision of the future of our nation is completely different from the vision you presented in your budgets. And we remember that Prime Minister Donald Tusk said it was impossible. Turns out it was quite possible. And it wasn't that hard, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Although this government was exceptionally disturbed in the implementation of the 2017 budget. And it will certainly be a similar situation in 2018. [[This appropriation is intended ……]] When Minister Jan Vincent-Rostowski of the Civic Platform was involved in the budget, the world was hit by an economic crisis. When we took over the work on both the 2016 budget, 2017 and the current 2018 budget, the economic economy came to Europe, ladies and gentlemen. When the revenue of the state budget was handled by the Platform from PSL, you needed 8 years - 8 years - to increase VAT revenues by about PLN 25 billion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It only took us one year and revenue increased by PLN 30 billion, ladies and gentlemen. May I? You can, you just have to want. You should've stopped that tax robbery that's been going on all these years. And even though our VAT revenues have increased by 30 billion, and we also have a significant increase in other taxes, you remember what crocodile tears were poured out of this tribune when it comes to the introduced bank tax. Yeah, they were gonna fall, and people were just gonna fall. They were supposed to stop taking loans. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, look at the dynamics. Look at the dynamics. Look... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I will also refer to you in order from this bleachers. Ladies and gentlemen, and all this has happened, despite the fact that PLN 250 billion of revenue has not evaporated from the budget as a result of VAT fraud and there were no 160 billion losses due to fraud and CIT fraud, unpaid excise duty. And not dwarfs, ladies and gentlemen, have dramatically improved budgetary revenues and macroeconomic performance, financial results, export results. It was not dwarfs who prepared the budget for 2017 and 2018, a realistic but optimistic budget, with a significantly decreasing budget deficit and a deficit in the public finance sector. And there are these people in this room. This is Minister Czerwińska, Minister Janczyk, Minister Gruza, Minister Banaś, [[Applause]] Minister Skiba, Minister Cybulski. These are specific people, not dwarfs. Turns out... [[Vaseline.]] ...that they are much better - much better, Mrs Skowronska - than your professionals undoubtedly. That's... [[Wizards.]] ...really successful authors. However, of course Parliament also has a part in this and some general vision of the Polish budget of the Polish state - that this budget is intended to serve Poles, is intended to serve citizens, not indicators, rating agencies or work on patting on the back during a visit to Berlin. [[Those are important words.]] These dreams, ladies and gentlemen, of warm water in the tap simply do not fascinate us. We have more ambitious plans, and Poles have more and more aspirations of course. And the fundamental issue for us will be... [[Man, man downtown.]] Yeah, man, man. Man - that sounds proud, provided he's respected by power, and we're trying to do it. It comes out different, sometimes better, sometimes worse, but the state's budget... [[Really?]] ...you didn't consider it at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this foreign debt and public debt have been broken down. It wasn't two years of rule of law and justice that led us to have almost PLN 1 trillion of public debt. Here we have a significant participation of you also from the Civic Platform, and even some... [[And what's yours?]] ...collaborators of the Civic Platform, who are today modern politicians. I would like to say that there are some positive symptoms, namely the foreign debt after the third quarter decreased to EUR 313 billion from EUR 320 billion. It's not a big drop, but it's important. Slightly, but the cost of debt service in relation to GDP is also decreasing, because Polish GDP is growing, and it is growing significantly. Mr Sasin has already talked about this in very detail. We don't have the final results yet, but it can be estimated that this increase will be around 4%. Maybe even, as some say, 4.5%. That would be a real score. significant in Europe. And it has to be said that this happened in a situation when Polish gold in the past year, 2017 turned out to be one of the most strongly gaining values of world currencies. The value of Polish gold could grow and the record could also appear in export, please, countries, i.e. even this strong gold did not disturb Polish exporters. Food alone, these are preliminary data, and last year we exported about EUR 30 billion. Well, we're the power... [[And what does the government bring?]] ...evidently when it comes to food exports. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all... Mrs Skowronska, I know that... Mrs. Krysia is well known for this in the committees not today, but it is in the meetings of the finance committee that we shout, here we ask you to be patient. [[Member of the Commission: Member.]] Mrs Krystyn Skowronska, do not disturb me. Please don't disturb me. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this has been achieved with very ambitious social goals, important social goals, important social goals. It is about PLN 70 billion in the scale of the budget for these purposes. I would like to remind you that the state not so long ago said here from the speaker that the 2017 budget will collapse, that there will be armagedon, there will be second Greece, in general it will be worse, as your economic advisor Dr. Rzońc said, than in Africa... [[The apocalypse.]] ...even worse not only in Greece, but also in Africa. After all, the scale of the absurdities you have made in the 2017 budget assessment is discrediting. This budget ended sensibly with positive results, even for optimists, ladies and gentlemen - even for optimists. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Details ahead.]] This budget... We will know the details, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of February, but the results are surprisingly good. There are no dramas in the banking sector, financial institutions pay this tax. It's gonna be almost 5 billion, that's what's important. It's come together, just like a lot of other things. The financial system didn't collapse because of nearly 400,000 leaving. persons for early retirement. All this can be done. Of course, there are challenges in the 2018 budget and, contrary to appearances, you will certainly be venting your frustration by assessing this 2018 budget - it must be said that this will be a great challenge for us in terms of remuneration. The pressure on wages seems to be significant. Poles want to earn better, and these wage increases that we have in the budget may not be satisfactory. But you can't do it all at once. That's one thing. We're really gonna need our hands to work. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will learn the truth about the financial system of the past years - we will surely learn more - when a committee of inquiry on VAT fraud is set up. I think that only then will Poles see the scale of budgetary pathology that took place in the past years, this robbery of public money on a huge scale. Imagine that there were situations - the National Tax Administration has interesting information - that there were 800 companies in one container. 800 companies were registered in one container or one studio. What did they do? All the same, i.e. VAT fraud. [[Amazing.]] And someone settled all this, someone spent the distribution of 150 million PLN on a bush company, which after 5 minutes transferred this money to a tax paradise. Someone was watching these giant transfers of money, someone saw these flows, but there was no reaction. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree with the opinion expressed here earlier by Mr Owl, who said that the budgetary policy of the state is aimed at increasing the mortality of Poles. What scale of absurdity can we come to, ladies and gentlemen? Do you think that we have unjustified doubts about the fact that a beginner doctor wants to make eight or nine thousand dollars? zł, have so much basic salary, which is more than his colleagues earn with years of experience and practice? After all, we need to consider these matters rationally. After all, we have a plan to raise health expenditure to 6%. GDP. By 2025 this will be over PLN 550 billion. It's gonna have to come from somewhere, and it's not a simple matter. Of course, it's easier if you don't have anything to say and you don't have the money. Then, of course, the gesture is much wider. So I would rather say that the budgetary policy of the state is aimed at increasing the fertility of Poles, because the effects of the 500+ programme are very visible. Of course, we also have such important issues as the huge environment of pensioners and pensioners. This is a huge social group that is very much counting on government, law and justice. These challenges are ahead of us. We are gradually trying to address these issues of at least the lowest pension benefits as well. This is the issue of the lowest wages. PLN 2100. If you looked at what it looked like in the last 8 years of the Platform and PSL government, it would turn out that these salaries were between 1300 and 1500. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, yes, with such a broad gesture, Madam, that 1300 PLN and 1500 PLN you could give after a year, and yet here it is 2100. There's a difference. Of course, this is also a question of consumption. You are trying to accuse the Polish government - one of the charges, as if most important - of investment, that these investments are not so dynamic. I think that this year you will be surprised when it comes to investment, because it is not only about planned major infrastructure investments, but also about communication. We are also aware that local governments like to invest so much before the elections, and the elections are already behind the belt, so they will probably start off with this type of local investment. Our approach to investment is just a little bit different. We believe that this should be about investments which are to be useful to the Polish society or the Polish economy. It's not like you have to spend this money just as soon as it's another bike path, right, or cold water thermal pools, because you specialized in such facilities. We try to watch every dollar and there are some differences in seeing some solutions. We believe that, for example. when it comes to road and infrastructure investments, they should be present in eastern Poland, [[Applause]] not in the western part of Poland, as it has been so far. It's not that the trucks from the German assembly plant will get the products to Hanover or Berlin as soon as possible. We want Via Carpatia to be such a backbone also economic, cultural, even I would say tourist. And that's what the money is for. [[Infrastructure.]] We have great movements and investment changes in infrastructure. That's what my friends and friends are gonna be talking about. We will also talk about social issues. [[And the S6?]] The fundamental issue here is the question of relation to your own country, i.e. the question of defending national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that this European Union, the Commissioners of the European Union - after all, also the Commissioners of your message - Prime Minister Donald Tusk, Mr Timmermans, Mr Verhofstadt, Mr Schulz - are today attacking Poland for their particular concern about who and how many votes will be elected by judges to the National Judicial Council? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you don't know what's going on, it's about money, and it's about big money. Imagine that from 2004 to somewhere in 2016, if you count, maybe even by 2017 legal transfer of funds from Poland to countries of the European Union, just abroad, to foreign companies, corporations, that is about PLN 700 billion. It's not small money. Today, German Commissioner Oettinger speaks openly and clearly: it is Germany, we are the beneficiary all these subsidies, European subsidies, the European budget, because we have a lion's share of this money coming to us. Some say that from 1 euro to the wealthy countries of the euro area, up to 60 and 80 cents return. We wanted to change that a little bit. We are trying to stop this huge stream, the flow of money, and instead of your support for such an initiative, because this money stays in the country, they enrich Polish citizens... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: First of all, you discourage foreign investors from investing.]] It's ridiculous, it's such a blind, stupid love that the more you get out of here, the better they're gonna judge us. This is just ridiculous. You have to value yourself, you have to keep an eye on your own business. We are also trying to raise these issues in the 2018 budget. Of course, we will see how this situation develops. Regardless of this, events of global or macro-economic importance, such as the issue of interest rates in the United States, whether Americans will raise these rates, whether there will be a speculative bubble in currencies or Eurobonds, will also have an impact on the Polish budget. Let us remember that today the good economic situation in Europe is largely based on the fact that the European Central Bank prints money, prints 60 billion a month and borrows, and it really will give away this money, because interest rates are zero or negative, it buys bonds, for example. Portugal. As I read outstanding professionals, experts in economics from Modern, who emphasize that Portuguese, Spanish or Italian bonds are better sold than our Polish, that we are more expensive and so on... Yeah, 'cause the European Central Bank is just giving them money for it on a regular basis. They even buy bonds from big foreign companies, big, wealthy companies. We don't have that possibility, but of course there's no dream... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We can have it.]] Yes, yes, you would like to get us into the euro today, so that we may have, so to speak, a giant, more expensive cost of living... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You regret it.]] ...not to mention the tangible losses of Polish exports, because the Polish currency, its own currency, is an instrument, a very serious tool of competitiveness. We'd be more expensive, we'd get worse. For now, there is nothing to talk about the euro. The Polish Constitution shall apply: art. 227, Art. 216, Art. 8, a few more articles of the Constitution can be mentioned... [[Attack?]] ...and it's clearly written: until there's a change of constitution, you can... [[It's about the National Judicial Council, too.]] ...to debate the adoption of the euro only under the Petru plan. This is where you can debate the adoption of the euro, because for the time being the Polish constitution is in force, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, coming to the end, I would like to say that Poles do not expect any news about macro indicators. Poles expect that there will be more work, although the effects in the fight against unemployment are really significant. $250,000. jobs in enterprises created last year. That's the scale. It's just European. I think it's over 130,000. jobs, job offers. When was that? You can dream of such indicators, even though for 8 years you have had those instruments at your disposal, which have power over fiscalism, public finances. The most important thing for Poles is whether these salaries will go up. 7% increase, approximately 7% wage increases over the past year - this has already been felt in the budget. It's the mall that notices, so to speak, perfect. But the question is, what's next? Because as we can see, even workers from Ukraine who come to Poland say they want to earn 3,000. zł. You could say, I think, that many Poles would gladly agree to such salaries immediately. There is therefore a significant problem, there is a problem of some significant transfer of debt to the domestic market, to national entities, because this dangerous debt, a truly dangerous debt, is a foreign debt, because here the creditor can always put conditions out of the question. That's what you have to be prepared for. Any change in the exchange rate, even by a few cents, results in a billion-dollar increase in the cost of handling this debt. Unfortunately, this is the inheritance we've taken over, which we can't deal with in two years. But looking at the 2017 budget and the 2018 budget, which is looking similarly positive... and I would even say that it might be right to plan the Ministry of Finance that we are going after such minimum indicators, and then it turns out that it is much, much better, even with the deficit of the public finance sector for 2017, because it may turn out to be less than 2%. I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, today Germany has 80%. debt in relation to GDP - 80%. We're at 51%. France has 100%. President Macron is teaching us how to run the economy. I think in a year or two, we're gonna see the French mission coming here and learning from us how to fight these VAT robberies, because apparently, right now, it's an interest. [[Applause]] is significant in this matter in Europe. The scientists from Europe that I had the opportunity to talk to said, "How did you do it? We said: We were simply trying to stop theft. That's what Prime Minister Szydło was talking about on those benches, which you laughed so much about. But we're gonna see how the VAT committee is doing, if you're gonna have the same smiley faces. [[Then do it all.]] What Prime Minister Szydło said, just stop stealing is a basic condition. This is a basic condition. [[Here from Luxembourg, the money needs to be downloaded.]] And the second condition is what we have been doing, also for 2 years: it is enough for us to stop stealing from the Polish budget and Polish citizens, because it has been going through actually without any consequences. They were embarrassing stories, weren't they? For theft... the extortion of 50 million VAT could have been paid several hundred zloty fines or several thousand fines. These are completely embarrassing stories. Fortunately, it's already been blocked. These solutions in the National Tax Administration, which our minister spoke about, who doesn't talk much and does a lot, which is Minister Banaś, who doesn't brag about... [[Voice from the room: And to Rabka.]] But I would like to tell you that such a staff change as the one made by Minister Banaś in the National Tax Administration, Poland has not seen, in terms of quantity, in terms of exchange, that, so to speak, employees, for many years. And it must be said that when it comes to these ICT programmes, uniform control files - and there are still new ideas in stock, please countries that may also worry you, but maybe they will contribute to an increase in budget revenue, because criminals do not fall asleep in ashes, they have not given up on easy money, right, just waiting for new opportunities and looking for new solutions - I hope that these dams will be significant here too. We talked about Polish gold, we talked about Polish debt, we talked about budget income. These are the most important issues. The 2018 budget seems to end as sensibly as positive as the 2017 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Neumann will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you are so reconstructing yourselves, that this is the first debate in the history of the Polish Parliament, in which there is no Minister of Finance, because you have not yet established it, so this is the order you are introducing in Poland when it comes to... [[He doesn't have to watch the money.]] Plus, we're gonna move on to money-sitting. You'll be able to talk about it in a minute. Mr President, you praise this budget, you say it is a balanced budget. In fact, in this budget you have evenly spread disappointments, very evenly. You say it's a social budget, a family budget. Yes, the PiS family and the Radio Maryja family will be fine with this budget. You will draw public money for your people as you did last year. An example is 200 million PLN of awards last year for deputy ministers of the government of Beata Szydło and Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Disgraceful!]] That's what you think about public money. It's a budget that doesn't solve the most important problem at the moment, which is more expenditure on health care. Talking about 2025 as the year of arrival to 6% GDP is a mockery of people working in health care today. This is a budget that is based on the development of the economy only on a good foreign economy and internal consumption. You're completely ignoring the investment, they're still very low. This is a pro-inflationary budget, which guarantees Poles further price increases. According to GUS data last year, prices on shelves rose by 6%. Food is the fastest food in years. You were talking about what a budget is. Well, Poles understand the budget as their own wallet, and you guarantee an increase in the prices of these basic articles. These prices will increase disproportionately. This has not been in Poland for many, many years. At the same time, you consciously lower the average annual inflation rate to save on pension expenditure. And the government maintains that this inflation is expected to reach 2.3% next year. Despite this growing cost, which will result in a low real increase in pensions in the following year after 2017, they will fall properly. In order to counteract this, the Civic Platform submitted a draft law in the Sejm to mitigate the effects of a severe increase in food prices. We have prepared a bill that introduces one VAT rate - 5% for all food instead of three rates of 5, 8 and 23%. You guys don't want to work on this project because you're still trying to collect this inflationary tax from people. This cost is extra VAT revenue for you. This budget is also a picture of another year with a very low investment rate, contrary to what you said, Mr. This third pillar of economic growth is very weak, it is miserable and does not work as it should. According to the European Commission, public investment is expected to reach around 4% this year. GDP. In fact, it's only because they're going to take so much -- so much in your case -- that local governments are very much involved. They spend European funds well. These investments are functioning. Central investment is down. You can clearly see it here. And your policy in Poland causes that there is no investment in the private sector and the economy. And that's to compare to what was... During the reign of the Platforms investments were on average 4.9% GDP. You can barely reach 4%. , and in a situation of prosperity in the world. You are constantly bragging about these successes in tax sealing. Even here, the Member has just said a lot about it - about the fact that it is enough not to steal and it is so great. But despite the introduction of new taxes, the ratio of the tax revenue of the budget to the gross domestic product is to be exactly as much as last year, or 16.1%. In other words, tax revenue is not supposed to grow faster than the expenditure and income of people that are the basis for taxation. They're supposed to grow on a similar level. It's your tax sealing that doesn't increase the budget revenue at all. A lot of budget revenues are coming up, and that's what a lot of independent analysts say... They grow mainly thanks to the economic recovery in the world and, as you yourself say in the explanatory memorandum of the Budget Act, by basing economic growth on internal consumption from which VAT is paid. That's a lot more revenue than tax sealing. This has nothing to do with tax sealing, [[Applause]] because you are sealing taxes so much that tax arrears have increased by 18.7 billion last year, Mr President. That's how much tax arrears went up last year, that was 22%. More. This year you are planning to increase these tax arrears by PLN 14.9 billion, which is 14%. Together, this is to reach PLN 118.7 billion. This is gonna be tax arrears, so stop talking about tax sealing, 'cause you can yell loudly that you're chasing tax frauds, but somehow you can't or you don't want to download those tax arrears. You're saying the economy has returned to the path of rapid growth. It's worth checking out. While in the years 2008-2015 during these 8 years of governance of the Platform, income per capita in Poland grew the fastest in the whole European Union - the fastest, during these 8 years - since you took over power, Poland is no longer a leader Even in our region. Today, according to the European Commission's forecast by 2019, as we will count these 4 years of your governments, per capita income will grow faster than in Poland, in Romania, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Latvia and Slovenia, and in Croatia, Slovakia and Hungary will grow at a similar rate. Compare yourself to others. Don't just look at national television that shows your propaganda, but compare it to how we live in Europe, how our neighbors work. They're growing faster than us. So there's nothing to brag about. You have to roll up your sleeves and work. This budget, as I say, has not responded to the most important challenge of recent months, i.e. increasing expenditure on health care. Today, listening to you, I have the impression that you are proud to open new shooting galleries, while closed hospital units do not cause any remorse or sense of decency in you. [[Applause]] That's your problem. That is why the Civic Platform amends this budget... [[You're kidding me.]] ...to help you find the money you said you didn't have. We are making an amendment on PLN 6.7 billion for the implementation of the Health Pact. We reiterate our October proposal for a cross-party agreement - the Health Pact - between the opposition, the government and health workers, increasing health expenditure to 6% GDP not in 2025, but for 4 years: for 2 years of your governments, for this year and come, and for 2 years of your governments, when you are no longer... you will be an opposition when we take responsibility for Poland in order to respect the provisions of this pact honestly. That's the first step. Since you have not prepared these measures this year, we are preparing this in an amendment. At the same time, we are submitting a bill that would lead to 6% GDP would be achieved much faster. I hope that the new Minister, after the reconstructed present, will want to talk, will want to solve this problem and will also find support in the PiS. As I mentioned, this budget is good for the PiS family and for the Radio Maryja family, not for millions of Polish families. It's a budget for your own, a budget that doesn't have the money to protect your health, but it's on its activists. You have the largest government in history: 22 ministers, 106 vice ministers. This is Byzantium, which, of course, requires funding. How's it look? Expenditure on the Chancellery of the Prime Minister is expected to increase by 31.6% compared to expenditure in the previous year and by more than 40% compared to expenditure in 2015. You create further positions for ministers and other departments, and the curial refugee department you've called is called only so that you can call Beata Kempa a minister. That's why you created the refugee department. [[Voice from the room: Helping refugees or not helping?]] I have the impression that your Pisiewicz people employed in this department will be more than refugees in Poland, that you will have more officials in this department than there are refugees in Poland. [[Applause]] That's what you think about administration. Curious expenses of the President's Office. The President's Office's expenses are increasing by 25%. Look, because this is important and interesting. [[Voice from the room: We're listening.]] They increase to an amount similar to that of the British, British taxpayers who pay for the royal family. They pay £45.6 million for the royal family. That's about as much as the President's law firm costs Poles. That's the Byzantium you make. [[Applause]] You spend public money right and left without any inhibition. [[Manipulation.]] CBA expenditure, not to mention, PLN 197 million. These expenses are almost PLN 200 million for CBA [[Joy in the Chamber]] for expenditure on the Central Bureau of Police Investigation, which is expected to decrease to about 212 million. It's for your knowledge, because it's always worth checking out. [[The voice from the hall: Here you are in pain.]] [[Let them go after Luxembourg.]] What hurts you: throughout 2016 25 968 corruption crimes were registered, of which the police, mostly CBŚ, registered 25 396, the prosecution and other services of several hundred, and CBA - for 200 million - registered 276 cases. 200 million on CBA and 276 cases. That's what you spend your money on the political police, which doesn't work in the area of corruption, because corruption fights the police, that's over 25,000. cases, and it has only similar comparable amounts. Sejm expenditure - 17% more, on Senate - almost 18% more, on IPN measures increased by almost 40% , on the IPN, which recently deals mainly with fighting against Lech Wałęsa and changing history, so that your activists are shown as those who have overthrown the commune, and those who have really overthrown the commune are to be embodied from history. This is the activity of the IPN. This is, unfortunately, almost five times what you spend on the Polish Academy of Sciences. It shows how you approach public money. It is money for your own, for the PiS family and for the Radio Maryja family. Therefore, the Platform cannot support this budget. We're filing for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Blazej Parda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, public debt has long exceeded 1 trillion PLN. The planned budget hole is to amount to PLN 42 billion, i.e. Law and Justice next year in debt of each working Pole by an average of 2.5 thousand. zł. In 2016, it was 3,000. zł, now 2,500. zł. This means that together every Pole working is officially in debt for over 65 thousand. zł. Law and Justice and Platform can congratulate each other because they go head-to-head in a race for the title of Poland's biggest debtholder. The pace of debt growth in recent years is enormous. Imagine that the government, apart from all the taxes that it's pulling out of your pockets, is borrowing extra credit for your bill every month. It's been going on for years. What's the point of imagining it anyway? That's just the way it is. Here, in particular, I appeal to young people who may be following this parliamentary debate. The government reaches to the pockets of Poles, raising taxes, does not simplify bureaucracy, increases employment in the administration. And now, young man, you and your parents, your loved ones pay 18%. income tax, sometimes 32%. In addition, you also pay for the ZUS, although you usually go to the specialist doctor privately, because the huge queues do not allow you to use the paid service offered by the State already once. If that were not enough, this budget will increase next year's Sejm spending by 20% and higher education by 4.5%. You'll spend more on the Senate by 18%, 12%. more to the Prime Minister's office, of course, now the Prime Minister. Maybe we're out of cups. You'll also spend 20% More for the President's firm. How are we supposed to get rich when more money goes to the ruling elites? Poles! Each of us pays 23%. VAT on almost every gold spent. Whether you're 10, 20 or 70, you pay the tax even by buying lollipops at the store. So you have the right, and even the obligation, to require services at the appropriate level, to require those who rule, the Law and Justice. Thus, in 2018 we will have a higher VAT rate of 23%. Law and Justice increased VAT to 23%. I remind you that in December 2016 he was to return to 22%... [[It's holding, it's holding.]] ...and would automatically return because the Act expired, but since January 2017, the VAT Law and Justice Act was again raised to 23%. Your responsibility for your actions is passed on to citizens, because Poles will, of course, pay this tax. Do they have a choice? They don't. You were supposed to lower your taxes, and you're gonna raise your taxes. Unfortunately, it's been like this for years. Your predecessors did the same thing. This is another element of the continuation of this policy. You've entered their shoes. That's an increase in red tape spending. In the field of public administration, the increase in expenditure will amount to almost PLN 200 million compared to expenditure last year. Let me remind you, we have over 450,000. officials. With regard to the Supreme Authorities of State Authorities, control, protection of the law and the judiciary, the budget assumes an increase of PLN 250 million. Unnecessary institutions such as the Polish Tourist Organization, i.e. such a travel agency for officials, which will receive 4 million PLN more next year, are not eliminated. If that were not enough, the PiS additionally creates more expensive organizations. As Kukiz,15 we are in favour of deregulation of law, removal of unnecessary legislation, reduction of bureaucratic obligations imposed on citizens and Polish companies and tax reduction. The implementation of these demands would allow to limit this army of officials, which is on our support today, and would give an impetus to the faster development of Polish companies. Besides, it's also the resources of human labor. Officials, often well-educated, could move on to business, because that's where new workers are needed today. They could also make more money, so we have two benefits, two birds with one stone. As Kukiz, 15, the sensible voice of Poles, and at the same time the third political power in the Sejm, we report further draft laws in this area. Unfortunately, most of them are either rejected at first reading, often at night, or go to a seym freezer. This was the case with our proposal to increase the commute for 14 million employees. This relief has not been updated in 11 years, and money has lost over 20% at that time. Mr PiS-u approx. hour 23 at night, while reading, he only learned a lousy message that he didn't, because no, because why, PiS knows best, and besides, we're super cool, because yes and no different. The same was true of our tax-free increase law, which you rejected without blinking an eye. Ladies and gentlemen, she hasn't been updated in nine years either. Dozens of our projects to improve the lives of workers, farmers or entrepreneurs have drowned in words: we apply for rejection of the bill at first reading. Some of them have been impudently copied or adopted very similar, taking credit, but we don't come here for credit. For us it is a better law for Poles, fair taxes and above all common sense in every matter. We recently made another proposal to reduce taxes from 19% to 15%. for small and micro-entrepreneurs who cannot count on millions of government aid, they cannot count on expensive lawyers or companies in Luxembourg. They have to be on their own and pay their taxes. Will you also reject this project in the same style? In addition, a few days ago you imposed a new obligation on smaller companies, i.e. monthly submission of a single control file, even those who accounted for VAT or PIT quarterly. Now they're gonna have to report back to you every month. So for many small companies, it's going to be a threefold increase in bureaucracy. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that this is the budget for continuing the debt policy of the next generations and the budget of unfulfilled promises. Unfortunately, it does not encourage young people, at my age, to return from abroad and want to work here, to start companies. The economic situation is relatively good, perhaps not so much thanks to you, because you are disturbing rather than helping, but even though you are. But you know that the economic crisis is not difficult. There used to be an Internet bubble, then a real estate crisis in the world, and who knows what's gonna happen next year. Therefore, we should be prepared for the dry years, for the years when it will be difficult, and it will be for sure. We must then have the ability to borrow to stimulate the economy. At this point in time, much indicates that another crisis in the world may begin in the autumn of this year or in the spring of next year. How are you gonna protect us from him? Hence our motion again, Marshal. On behalf of Kukiz, 15 and future generations, I apply informally for the cessation of irresponsible debt of Poles, those who are 80, 40 or 20 years old today, and especially those who are just about to come into the world, because they will pay your debts. Stanisław Staszic, a great pilanin, wrote: Remember that if today, when no one interferes with you, with such immense national wealth; if with such great opportunities in your hand you cannot rule, you will show that you have no reason to control yourselves - warning for Poland. [[Mr President, a little honesty, if no one bothers us.]] It is also worth noting that Kukiz is the only one who does not receive a party subsidy. This is actually an additional 7 million PLN to the budget. We would like - and here a request to the Minister and maybe the Minister, we do not know who will - for this 7 million PLN to go to health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u15	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club... Oh, I'm sorry, it's early modern. [[Order.]] Mr Ryszard Petru, on behalf of the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget shows how the government feels about the future of the country. There are governments that owe their country, and there are those that lead to growth. I regret to say that the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and now Prime Minister Morawiecki, is introducing Poland to the path of debt and overeating the prospects of Polish growth. In the last two years you have indebted Polish society to PLN 80 billion. And you can't hide that fact. The last two years have not been used for any of the development projects either. Ladies and gentlemen, responsible economic policy is that, as the economic situation is, the deficit is significantly decreasing. We have at this point, you're predicting an increase of 3.9%. next year, and the budget deficit - almost PLN 42 billion. However, the Germans, which you so often rely on and to whom some of you are leaving for sure or through which you are going, or to whom you are years old, have 14 billion euros of surplus, and this is the fourth year. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with debt, I'd like to ask you, I just don't know who I'm supposed to ask, whether the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister or the future Minister of Economy, what's it gonna be like... [[There isn't.]] There's just no finance minister. [[Minister Balcerowicz is best advised.]] That's what I can ask you, sir. Maybe you do. [[And fighting poverty is what?]] Namely, what will the Polish deficit and debt look like, how will the economic economy in the world slow down if it slows down by half? And so I have a question: What are you going to finance the growing deficit and debt? What kind of taxes of Poles again, so to speak, you're gonna shower? And now, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example of what your prediction looks like. Last year, you predicted that your pension would go to 332,000. persons. Do you know how many people applied for early retirement? 424,000. [[We know.]] The question is, how did you happen to be unable to estimate even such a simple number? Ladies and gentlemen, the question now is who will pay those pensions. Future governments. This is exactly the policy Jaruzelski had in the '80s. Namely, he introduced early retirement. Which governments then paid their pensions? Solidarity, that is, after us even a flood. You do not care who will spend 20 billion PLN on these early pensions, pay out. Remember that what you are doing today will affect not only future generations for the coming years. You promised not to raise taxes - we will see what the decision of your tribunal will be - and from next year it will increase the premium for better earners by PLN 5 billion. [[The best earners, the best.]] In addition, you have increased your contributions by PLN 50 per month for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! Inflation. You're not talking about inflation, and I wanted best, I think, a few numbers to sum up the year of your governments, 2017. Food prices have increased by 5.8%, sir. , butter - an increase in prices by 35%. [[We are talking about the 2018 budget.]] Eggs - 25%, poultry meat - 7% , vegetables - 3.5% , butter - 35%, I'll say it again. [[Voice from the hall: And in other countries?]] Sir, if you buy food in other countries, you may be interested, but Poles buy food in Poland and pay for your governments by 6%. more this year than last year. [[It's cheaper in Albania.]] I understand, of course, that you're happy with inflation, because every government, like it has higher inflation... [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, Mr Platform and Mr PiS. [[It's gonna be versus. I'll answer those charges.]] And, Solidarna Polska, I remembered. [[Thank you.]] A very important group within the United Right. I cordially greet the Member. And now I am. As far as higher inflation is concerned, it is of course beneficial for the government, because it raises the revenue of the budget, but it hurts Poles and hurts the poorest Poles, not the richest ones. Ladies and gentlemen, you have increased your tax series. Next year, the tax on a truck weighing between 3.5 and 5.5 t increases by almost 60 PLN. From 1 January, people earning more than 100,000. PLN for renting apartments will pay 12.5 percent tax and not 8,5 so far. Entrepreneurs, as I said, have a higher premium of 40 zlotys ZUS. Ladies and gentlemen, interest rates are expected to rise this year because inflation is rising. Who's gonna pay for the interest rate raise? All those who have loans in zlotys. Everyone will pay for your government policy. And now I am. The question is: How should a responsible budget be created? Namely, it is necessary to think about development for the coming years, above all about development and not prolonging future generations. Investment needs to increase, especially private investment, because private investment accounts for 80% Polish growth, not purely public investment. We need to cut taxes and simplify. Polish entrepreneurs really do not know what taxes will be paid tomorrow. The euro needs to be adopted. I will make one more argument, because the Member spoke about the cost of handling the debt. Almost PLN 30 billion goes annually from our taxes to the interest rate of our debt. The higher the debt, the higher the inflation, the more uncertain the government, the more we pay these interest rates. The adoption of the euro would mean tens of billions of savings. Ladies and gentlemen! You say that there is a good budgetary situation, and this is best seen when there is a specific health problem to be solved. What does it turn out to be? There's no gold. Of course, I'm aware that doctors and nurses aren't your electorate, but if there's a really burning problem, you don't know how to solve it, and there's no money for it. Ladies and gentlemen! Another thing: health reform. Apart from the fact that there's no money, we also need to solve it. It's a system. For the last 25 years, governments have been afraid of this. There are solutions in the world. This can be compared to car OC, which means everyone has to have insurance, but they can choose between companies. Then the prices of services fall, then there is no waste of resources, but then also increases the salaries of nurses and doctors, and additional voluntary ACs are introduced, which can finance over-standard services. Thanks to this, we rationalise expenditure, manage health care better and introduce 1.5.2% into the system. GDP, thanks to which health care is co-financed. You can do that, you just have to want, you don't have to be afraid. And this, of course, is an appeal to all who will also rule in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, employment is falling in your governments, which means that more and more people are leaving the labour market. It will be very difficult for people, especially women who have become unemployed or no longer active, to return to the labour market after a few years. You don't think about them, and they're gonna be on the poorertures, which at this point the ZUS, through your actions, pays less than 1,300 zlotys per head. This is really very little in terms of life. The principle must be introduced: what is not prohibited is allowed. This is a fundamental principle that can trigger Polish entrepreneurship. And two, you have to start removing professional privileges in a gradual manner, after talking to trade unions, because there is a huge waste and there are huge measures. Your budget is not all-encompassing. This is the budget of overeating time, indebting Poland and counting on a good world economy, and as we well know, the economy is good once, it is bad once. When a bad economy comes, you have to look for savings and you can see where you will look for savings - hit the poorest ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad budget, this is not a development budget. And on behalf of Modernity, I propose that this budget be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Second reading, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u17	Thank you. [[I'm filing a motion for rejection in the second, too.]] [[That's what I figured.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! When Prime Minister Morawiecki presented the exposé, we promised him, on behalf of the Polish People's Party, that every day we would take care of this and remind him that the fruits of economic growth should be shared in solidarity. We'll take care of the ones you've left out, the ones you've forgotten, the ones you've underestimated, you haven't noticed. I understand, during the reconstructive battle, you may have missed a lot, which is why there is a constructive opposition, and this is the Polish People's Party to make amendments to indicate places where you are not simply giving advice. I'm gonna start with the cases of dignified people, seniors, pensioners. These two years have not experienced that the fruits of economic growth are shared in solidarity. They received the lowest valorization for years, which for some was even 5 PLN. The meds for seniors didn't change the sense of health security, they didn't improve... [[But they are.]] ...opportunities of access to the most important therapies, and many drug prices... [[They're supposed to be for everyone.]] ...e.g. for transplant recipients, increased by several hundred zlotys. That is why we will be making a series of amendments. We start with seniors, pensioners, the group that's been the most affected in the last two years of government. That is why we are asking for an amendment, and this is about PLN 2800 million for the payment of one-off allowances for pensioners. [[Applause]] It's like 500+ for pensioners and pensioners. Twice in 2017, you rejected this bill, but we'll give you another chance. [[It's a shame it's so late.]] We're gonna give you one chance to get those pensioners who have pensions under 2,000 zlotys, which is the most needy, to get 500 zlotys for Christmas. We'll also ask for single mothers once again. I know they're in this room, and they're on the side of the PiS, and they're followers of the rules: This is support for $400,000. families, and it costs 1 billion PLN. A lot, that's true, but it's less than 5%. all expenditure on the 500+ programme, for which we voted, which is a good programme, which is a continuation of our family policy. [[Applause]] We can say good words about your projects. I hope you vote in favour of the gold for the gold. It'll be proof... [[We'll say the right word.]] ...that a mother who earns 1900 PLN per hand, keeps her family alone, goes to work, pays taxes, will not be excluded from the 500+ program, will not lose 6000 PLN. It's just what she deserves. They don't need those who make $20,000. monthly and later they put top-class stickers on their cars, funded with 500+ and needed by their mother. We call for this amendment to be adopted. Mother is excluded from state aid today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We will make an amendment on the support of those who are experienced and have been actually deceived, exploited and rejected. This applies to farmers who have lost their holdings as a result of a terrible disease such as ASF, which is spreading. We gave you back... [[With ASF.]] ...where there were three ASF fires 15 km from the border with Belarus. Now there's 106 bonfires among pigs, 935 bonfires among wild boars, and you don't do anything about it, you don't have an idea to fight ASF, you can't. Thanks to your wrong decisions Poles today really lose their lives, lose their jobs, lose their farms. As the ASF has crossed the natural barrier of the Vistula, it is headed for the Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, i.e. the places where the largest pig farms are located. PLN 1 billion must be allocated to fight against ASF in Poland and for real compensation, not for fake aid. [[Applause]] It is about a specialty that will allow real compensation for those who have suffered an ASF disaster. Here's another thing. It's a thing that should have been introduced for many years - a disaster fund. There are various types of disasters, both in agriculture, for example. frosts last year, and here until today many farmers are without compensation, but there are also natural disasters that affected Bora Tucholskie, northern Poland. There must be a disaster fund that responds immediately to such phenomena. 1850 million is the sum which, according to our experts, should secure various types of events for next year. This is our shared responsibility. If someone gets hurt, someone loses their place to live, their home, their habitation, must get real state aid. Support for measures in the field of health protection. Prime Minister Morawiecki started his exposé on health issues. It is only a dream to talk about 2025 and 6%. Minister Radziwiłł said: in 2 years - 6%. Well, that's an amendment. This year you can do it, 24 billion for VAT sealing, and that's 6%. GDP, allocated to health care. It's an extension of hospitals, it's an investment in a human being, in medical personnel, in a lifeguard, in a nurse, in a doctor, in a physiotherapist, in a whole team, which is an investment in patients. Without this, there will be no healing of health care. And we're in favour of a superpolitical team. I hope that the new Minister of Health will not mock, he will not mock like Minister Radziwiłł 2 years ago when we applied for a post-political team. He said it was a time of decision, only that the decisions were wrong or lacking. It's very important that we breathe better, cleaner air. 45,000. people die annually because of smog, due to air pollution. There are no real anti-smog measures taken, no solutions are in place in this area, so special support is needed in this area, for energy allowances for the poorest people, for the exchange of furnaces, but also for the creation of a whole system of fighting smog for PLN 2 billion. Finally, a very important issue - the national community is our duty and our greatest challenge, because Poland is very divided today. It has been 100 years since Poland regained its independence. You would like to celebrate this dignifiedly and we propose to amend the budget so that each municipality can pay 50,000. PLN to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Polish independence. [[Applause]] These celebrations cannot be held only in Warsaw. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] They cannot only take place in metropolises, but they must also take place in local Poland, in local Poland. That's PLN 125 million. Stand up to Poland for a worthy celebration of independence. And finally, a few comparisons that you should follow Prime Minister Morawiecki - as he said and expose this fraud at some point - finally end up with Poland in ruins, because Prime Minister Morawiecki said that it was a marketing stunt, in the flow of sincerity in one of the interviews - it was said that it was a marketing stunt in the election campaign. It's a good thing he confessed to it. Thank you very much, because when unemployment was one-digit in 2015, Poland was in ruins, as it is now one-digit, then Poland is developing super. When economic growth was 3 and 4% in 2015, Poland was in ruins, as it is now 34%, it is Poland that is developing miraculously. When the number of unemployed fell by 268 thousand. In 2015, Poland was in ruins, as it is now about 250,000. the fall in the number of unemployed, it is Poland that is developing. When job offers were in September 2015 137 thousand. - 137,000. job offers in 2015 in September - Poland was in ruins, as it is now 100,000. job offers, Poland is developing, [[Applause]] etc., etc., etc. Enough with the hypocritical rhetoric. We're making a series of amendments. We are making a series of amendments to ensure that the fruits of economic growth are shared jointly and severally. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times in this Chamber, I have emphasized the merits of the Minister of Finance, the current Prime Minister, Mateusz Morawiecki and his team of collaborators, thanks to whom Poles can finally look forward to the future. With this in mind, I will not repeat myself by expressing my position towards the Government's draft budget law for 2018. I will highlight the reality of the assumptions and address a few points. We believe that the assumptions may not be ultraconservative, but a forecast of strong economic growth of 4%. , supported by the synchronised growth of external markets is as real as possible. In addition, economic growth, unlike 2017 should be strongly supported by investments in the business sector, and if they fail again, will be driven by public sector investments co-financed by the European Union. Thus the assumed deficit level of PLN 41.5 billion, according to EU methodology That's 2.7%. GDP, we consider it safe, but according to our assessment the scale of debt should be even smaller and it should amount to about 20 billion Polish zlotys. I am pleased to acknowledge that the main priorities of our circle, health care, social affairs, defence, for 2018 are included in the draft budget. We are pleased with the continuity of social projects, among others. like 500+. The project assumes that in 2018 4,67% will be allocated to health care. GDP and one year later 4.86%. Resources will increase for this purpose in the coming years, in 2020 - 5.03% , in 2021 - 5,22% In the years to come - jumping. The target level of financing, i.e. 6% GDP, to be achieved in 2025. We support the gradual increase in funding in this area as proposed. At the same time, increasing health expenditure should involve optimization and control of distribution. We will closely monitor the development of free medicines for seniors. We also hope that the announcement by the Prime Minister on the development of the production of Polish medicines will help to increase the range of medicines available, and will allow for the retention of funds in our economy, limiting imports of foreign chemicals. We also support the gradual increase in national defence funding, at a level of not less than 2% in 2018 GDP and steadily increasing over the years to reach 2.5% in order to achieve this goal. To sum up, near Free and Solidarni will support the proposed budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u21	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, near the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Szewczak, representing the Law and Justice in this debate, called for a serious discussion on the 2018 budget, and then drowned himself in very frivolous arguments. We learned from his speech that the European Union is draining Poland financially. As an example, he gave tira, which exported goods to the west of Europe from the German assembly plant located in the western regions of Poland, because the amount of PLN 700 billion fell. I know, Mr President, that you are dreaming of Poland outside the European Union, but the truth is, without the European Union, there would be no economic growth of Poland, there would be no civilization leap, there would be no more than 80% Poles today appreciate as a consequence and effect of Poland's accession to the European Union. [[White bears.]] In addition, your clubmate, Mr Sasin, when reporting on the results of the budget committee's work, made it clear that he felt that the important positive elements of the budget for this year would also be linked to the consequences and benefits of Poland's membership in the European Union. He talked about the significant increase planned this year in investment expenditure related to the use of European funds allocated still in 2014 within the framework of the multiannual EU budget for the Republic of Poland, which was negotiated by the government of Mr Donald Tusk. I remember these negotiations, and I remember the success that you, in your anti-EU policies, have no chance of repeating. Too bad, too bad for Poland. Secondly, you yourself said that income increases, such as food exports. You've been throwing, it seems, even at the amount of PLN 30 billion. And I would like to make you aware that more than 3/4 of this export is being directed to the European Community market. And this is also another proof that belonging to the European Union, contrary to what you claim, is beneficial for the Polish economy and for Polish citizens, and in this case also for agricultural producers in our country. Finally, you were talking about these German assembly plants, and I'm going to go back to that thread. Now, do you also mean the ceremony which took place in June with the participation of the Deputy Prime Minister, today Prime Minister Morawiecki, the installation of the cornerstone for another factory, this time Mercedes engines, in Lower Silesia near Jawor, where Germany will invest PLN 2 billion as part of a direct investment located in Poland? [[Very good.]] Your boss or head of this government seems to have a different opinion and does not consider this to be a drain, on the contrary, a clear benefit for the Polish economy and Polish development. You also said, with this budget, you boasted of exceptional results in terms of increasing VAT collection. I would like to remind you that this has actually become possible thanks to a single control file that was initiated and introduced not in your term of office, but in your previous term of office, under the rule of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. So what is the 2018 budget coming to us? Because we've been discussing what constitutes his most important indicators. And I have no doubt that the solution adopted by the previous government, not the government of Beata Szydło, only the government of Ewa Kopacz, and membership of the European Union are of great importance here. But what picture emerges from this budget for this year? This will, without a doubt, be another year's increase in red tape expenditure. There is no doubt about that, even you yourself... and not Mr Sasin admitted it. We will have another year of lack of significant increases in pensions and pensions. The planned increase in the lowest pensions by PLN 24 with such a radical increase in food prices is, I would say... it is not only not satisfactory, but also genuinely embarrassing. [[Give me more.]] And I know what I'm saying because I have a lot of pensioners in my own family, and I know how much they're counting every penny with every month of rising food prices for your governments. It will also be another year of lack of increase in healthcare expenditure, despite this dramatic situation with the closure of hospital departments and the scandalous rise in drug prices, especially in sensitive sectors, in sensitive areas such as medicines for children after transplants. I just want to remind you that the price of one of the essential medicines for transplanted children has increased over 250 times in your government. One of the syrups, its price from PLN 3,20 jumped to 817. And that's exactly what this government did, and that's not gonna change in 2018. What's this budget gonna be like? It will be another budget, another year of the budget of unfulfilled promises. Let me remind you of the promises you made in the election campaign: reducing VAT from 23% to 22%. Where's the change? She's not here. Shall I remind you of the promise made by your government and the then presidential candidate Andrzej Duda to the franchise? Where are the solutions involved? They're gone. Finally, a very concrete promise made to KGHM employees by Mrs Beata Szydło in the election campaign on 6 October in Lubin: we will immediately abolish the tax on some fossils. Tax as it was, so it is written at the level of almost 1290 million PLN once again. [[And who brought him in, sir?]] Therefore, the Union of European Democrats is asking your marshal to reject this budget at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. And here you are, Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In a new year, 2018 Poles entered in an optimistic mood. For years they have not assessed the economic and social situation of their country and the material conditions in their households so highly. [[In the PiS studio.]] We have legitimate reasons for that. In October 2017, the average gross remuneration in the enterprise sector amounted to PLN 4574. This meant that there was an increase of 7.4% per year in this respect. It was the best score in eight years. Unemployment in December 2017 was 6.6% and was 1.6 percentage points less than a year ago. At the end of December, the number of unemployed amounted to 1080 000 and the number of job vacancies and job activation places reported by employers to employment offices in December 2017 amounted to 94.9 thousand, which means that it was 4,3 thousand. higher than in December 2016 In 2017, the rate of decline in the number of unemployed was stronger than in 2016. Poland is characterised by one of the lowest wage gap values in the European Union, as Eurostat pointed out. The difference in earnings is 7.7% to the detriment of women, while the EU average is 16.7% Then we have reason to be content. It is with these conditions on the labour market that we enter in 2018 - the year in which from 1 January the minimum wage increased to 2100 PLN gross. Throughout the year there will be a law reducing the retirement age, which is charged to the state budget by PLN 10 400 million. The Government of Law and Justice is planning to introduce on 1 March the valorisation of pension benefits. It will cost PLN 4.4 billion. More than 7800 thousand will be included in the valuation. persons. The average pension will rise to over PLN 2138. However, as a result of the reduction in the retirement age, the number of pensioners will increase by more than 211 000 at the end of 2018. persons. In 2018, the Social Insurance Fund will not be funded from the Demographic Reserve Fund. This year, pension expenditure will increase by almost 12%. , for sickness benefits - by 7%, and for other benefits - by 5.5%. Of 4,8% increase maternity allowance expenditure by 7.6% - for rehabilitation benefits and by 5.8% - for welfare benefits. As the deadline for repayment of loans granted to the Fund in 2014 and 2016 expires on 31 March 2019, the government in the 2018 budget included a write-off of approximately PLN 7.2 billion, which will improve the state of the Fund at the end of the year. The improvement in the labour market situation, which I mentioned earlier, provides the basis for reducing expenditure from the Labour Fund on unemployment benefits, which together with social security contributions were planned for 2018, amounting to PLN 1768 million, which will allow to pay almost 155 thousand. unemployment benefits, or 56,000. benefits less than planned for 2017. On the other hand, they will increase significantly, because by more than 14%, the expenditure of this fund related to specialisation and the implementation of post-graduate traineeships for about 30,000. doctors and dentists and for 6350 nurses and midwives. A total of over PLN 1179 million was spent for this purpose. The KRUS also plans a small reduction in the number of pensions for farmers paid in 2018. He's assuming he's gonna pay 1180 grand. benefits, with 91% of the revenue of the KRUS Pension Fund being covered by the budget grant. The financial year 2018 will be another year of support by the Government of Law and Justice of Polish families, in particular the protection and support of families and families in difficult material or social situation. [[Applause]] [[That's right.]] For this purpose, among other things, the amount of PLN 1.5 million will be secured for special grants for public benefit organisations acquiring partners of the Large Family Charter, who declare discounts for the purchase of goods and services for multi-child families. The amount of 2740 thousand was secured for printing, personalization and distribution of cards. PLN, i.e. a total of 4240 thousand were allocated for this purpose. zł. Compared to last year, an increase of about 81% is planned. In addition, 1310 000 were guaranteed in the special-purpose reserve. PLN for the maintenance and development of the Information System of the Large Family Charter. In support of families raising children and caring for people with disabilities, 7280 000 were guaranteed in the budget. PLN, while the amount of 542 thousand was secured to support families with difficulties in caring and caring for children. zł. The amount of over PLN 3651 million has been secured for social assistance tasks planned for the current financial year by the voivodships. For over-the-counter social assistance houses, for running municipal and district support centres, an increase in expenditure is planned for permanent benefits in 2018. Also significant funds of PLN 550 million have been secured to feed children. The amount of PLN 350 million was distributed per voivodship and the amount of PLN 200 million was secured in the special reserve. By PLN 1500 million, or 7% , the appropriations for the implementation of the programme have been increased in relation to the previous year. This programme is of great importance for the eradication of poverty in Polish families, while the indicator in terms of eliminating this phenomenon was reduced by 96% for 2017 alone. The programme also had a huge impact on investment and consumption growth at a time when local governments stopped spending on investments from EU funds. Nearly PLN 12 billion will go to the municipalities for the implementation of tasks. This will also enable them to be sent to Polish families in the form of family benefits, maintenance fund benefits, carers' benefits. In this amount, funds for one-off benefits of 4 000 were secured. zł supporting pregnant women and families as part of a comprehensive support programme for families. 66% more funds were allocated by the government in 2018 for the implementation of the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3, including for the implementation of the "Milch+" programme. It is also important to mention an increase of PLN 50 million, to the value of PLN 80 million, of funds for the implementation of the "Senior+" programme, including the running of day-to-day senior houses and senior clubs created by self-government units, those whose strategies for the development of social assistance take into account the development of infrastructure for the elderly. I will also mention that 2017 was the year in which the smallest pension was increased to PLN 1000. The Government of Law and Justice ensured that 2018 was the year in which the growth and very good development of the Polish economy will benefit also those families who are doing worse in the present reality. This will be the year in which the fruits of economic growth will be shared once again jointly and severally. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Health finance in 2018 will represent 4.67% gross domestic product and will reach 6% after 8 years. So if, at this rate, the Civic Platform and PSL government were to implement a policy of increasing health funding today, in 2018, we would have 6% funding. gross domestic product. The Government of Law and Justice must start this procedure in order to improve the health situation in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u25	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the size of the planned and implemented revenue, expenditure and budget deficit depend to a large extent on the economy and its state. That is why I will focus on three economic issues. First of all, I will talk about how Poland is perceived from abroad as a place of business, and this is so important that it shows how much our business conditions attract investors. Unfortunately, there are international signals indicating the deterioration of these conditions in Poland, e.g. in the World Bank Doing Business Poland ranking in 2017 fell by three positions compared to 2016, from 24th place to 27th place. This is very important - considered by many to be the most important - ranking. In another ranking relating to economic freedom Index of Economic Freedom, prepared by Heritage Foundation, Poland ranks 21st in Europe and 45th in the world ranking and is classified as a country of moderate economic freedom. Unfortunately, the prospects are not good, because the rule of law is a very important criterion in this ranking. It is difficult to imagine an improvement in Poland's position according to this criterion in the current situation. In this ranking we are also weak according to the criterion described as the size of the government, government size. The second issue is GDP growth. Recent data on the European Union's economy indicate a positive trend towards GDP growth in Poland. On the other hand, it should be stressed that in terms of growth rate Today we have a number of countries ahead of us. These are e.g. Romania, Malta, Ireland, Slovenia, Estonia and the Czech Republic. It is worth recalling here that we were the leader of accumulated GDP growth in the European Union between 2008 and 2015. Today we are not even a leader in our region. Why is this very important, this growth in GDP? This means that other countries have a higher share and benefit more from prosperity than we do and that a number of countries in our region can catch up with the European Union's top countries faster than Poland. After a dramatic decline in 2016, investment is growing significantly below expectations, they are definitely, in colloquially speaking, in the hole. Prime Minister Morawiecki said about the investment situation on 12 December in this Chamber that it would not be good if investments were to grow quickly, because it would lead to narrow operational bottlenecks. When the level of investment is extremely low, pointing to the harmfulness of rapid growth is an awkward justification for the current state of affairs. In this respect, We have been in the worst situation since 1995, and the investment goal of Prime Minister Morawiecki's plan is moving further and further away. The high investment growth in 2018, which Mr Sasin mentioned, must be assessed, given the very low starting point of 2017. It can be said that with such a low starting point it is relatively easy to achieve high increases. On the other hand, it is not known what the Prime Minister would have said about this increase, paying attention to the negative consequences of high investment growth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the 2018 Budget Act. Ladies and gentlemen! What has already been said here is a charge, quite rightly done, that in the times of economic times in which we are undoubtedly in debt, you are predicting this increasingly new, successive deficits, which will have to be paid back someday. It's not like you can borrow that money endlessly, issue bonds and sell them, and it'll never be paid. There will come a time when everyone will have to pay it either in the form of even higher taxes or in a different form. Perhaps you will nationalize some goods that today are owned by Poles. I will give an example, for example, of Cyprus, where there has actually been a confiscation of some of the funds collected in bank accounts. But let's go back to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Now that we're talking about the budget, we're talking about the money, and since we're talking about the money, we're talking about the money of Poles, those who work hard, they pay taxes. And with these taxes, the money's in the budget. I therefore ask: What about the increase in the tax-free amount according to what you promised? Because you've already changed the rules in this area twice, making some kind of prosthesis, proposing solutions that give you the argument that you did something about it, and when it comes to the situation of Poles, it doesn't actually cause any change. So, a simple question: When exactly will the tax-free amount be increased to a minimum, if the financial situation is so good? Another question: What about VAT reduction? I can't remember when, but some time ago the PO-PSL government temporarily increased VAT from 22% to 23%. This moment has been going on for several years. You had the opportunity not to increase this VAT because only for a certain period could this VAT be temporarily increased, but on the occasion, you increased this VAT from 22% to 23%. So the question is, when will you finally fulfill your promise? Be consistent. I know it's not easy, 1% VAT isn't very small on the scale of the entire budget, but since you promised it, it's a question of when you're gonna do it. That's another line. In the passing year, in 2017, a number of taxes were raised in Poland or introduced new ones. You are doing quite differently than our partners in the European Union, Romania. A number of taxes of various strange, nonsense and nonsense because sometimes the cost of obtaining this tax is so high that a given tax loses its meaning. So when are you going to implement the demand for simplifying the tax system, not imposing new taxes? It's really about citizens' money. There is a fundamental difference in the approach to citizens' money - Kukiz15 wants as much money as possible for citizens to remain in their pockets and PiS wants to give as much money as possible to citizens. Just to give, you have to take it first, because neither Prime Minister Morawiecki nor any finance minister - at least since I can remember - has given away his own money. The money that is in the state budget is our money, all citizens, it's the citizens who pay it. [[Fairly divide, oh!]] Fairly divided. You don't want to take that much, you don't want to take that much. That's what we're different about, and we're probably not gonna get along here, so we're gonna be the voice of conscience that reminds you: don't take so much in the form of taxes. Relax, citizens know how to separate this money, they know what to spend it on. Another question: contributions, actually labour costs, broadly speaking, contributions that must be paid by entrepreneurs and employees. Let me give you an example of a situation. One of the entrepreneurs told me that he invited his employees to pay them money and made it extra cash. He put $3,000 in front of individual employees. zł. The employees asked, "Boss, a raise?" And he says, "No, relax. Count off 1,200 zł, because that's what I'm going to have to pay for hiring you, that's what I'm going to have to pay in the form of contributions paid by my employer and employee, in the form of taxes. Let me remind you, 1800 PLN per hand in 2017 is 2500 PLN gross, and for the employer it is the cost of more than 3000 PLN. zł. These are the labour costs in Poland. When an employer wants to pay the employee 1800 PLN, he must pay the cost of 3000 PLN. zł. To make $3,000. zł, he has to pay income taxes and so on. Those are horrendous amounts. So when will you finally reduce your labour costs so that in Poland it simply pays to hire and work? That's another line. You have a policy that can be described, unfortunately, as a distribution. In times of economics, you benefit from the fact that you can buy favor, sympathy and support from Poles. However, the question is this, and this also sounded out of this podium: How do we protect ourselves, how do you protect us, all Poles, from the coming of the time of the deconuncture? These times must come, cyclical cycles are like this, not different. After the times of growth come the times of deconstructiveism. How are we protected from this? I don't think so. What does the level of investment look like? This is Mr Szewczak talking about increasing local investment. Okay, okay. What about state investment, infrastructure? But it slowed down. Are you planning to grow in this regard? After all, the money that circulates in the economy is growing. Moving on, ladies and gentlemen, health care. That's the subject. the river, the subject to which Members of the Health Commission are concerned, and therefore Mr Kozłowski will certainly tell you more in this respect. But let me make this short: it can't be that... You really need to have the nerve to tell Poles that in 2025 we will reach some level. I'm talking about something because today it's said that this level of health expenditure is going to be 6,8%. GDP. And he's growing all the time. We're in 2018, so in 7 years, probably this level, given that society is getting older, should be maybe 7 or maybe 8%. You're assuming that in seven years we're going to reach a level that we should have achieved by now. It's just ridiculous, it's frivolous treatment of both patients and health professionals or the whole health system. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I give an example of Romania. Put your eyes on a country that is really one of the most rapidly developing in the European Union, a country that has economically freed its citizens, its entrepreneurs and is growing. Take an interest in this. I know that maybe it's not European that it would have to be suffocated, suppressed, imposed as many restrictions, taxes as possible, so that some citizen wouldn't get rich so everyone would have a level playing field, but down. But since you have left, I do not want to say: to war, but you have stood up to an open debate with the European Union, with the countries of the European Union, with the authorities of the European Union, since you want to present your own view, your own position that Poland can be independent, sovereign, independent, maybe it is also worth to oppose this pan-European trend of entrepreneurship strangling, choking economies, finally and above all to make Poles, especially young Poles, simply want to return to Poland, live and work here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot about macroeconomics today, about our country's debt, about tax increases. It is all true, but we have already talked about this many times from this speaker, so I would like to focus in my speech today on something else, namely on the priorities of Prime Minister Morawiecki and whether they are actually reflected in the budget. Health, clean air and apartments are priorities with the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki. How many of these priorities have been reflected in state expenditure for the current year? The points are. It's worse with money to change. Health care. The resident protest has returned, its form is more severe for patients. Doctors no longer want to work for more than 12 hours because they think that working this way, they are not able to take good care of the health and life of Poles. They demand a radical increase in healthcare expenditure. Why is it so important and urgent? According to the OECD report, there are an average of 3.5 doctors per 1000 inhabitants in EU countries. In Poland there is one less doctor, exactly 2.3 doctors per 1000 inhabitants, and these doctors are still dying. There will be even fewer of them, because others are taking up work abroad because it is profitable for them there. There will be even fewer of them, because the PiS government has reduced retirement age and some will simply leave the profession, not wanting to work so hard. By comparison, there are 4.5 doctors per 1000 inhabitants in Norway and 5 in Austria. This is 100 times more doctors per capita compared to Poland. Similarly, statistics of all health professionals are negative in Poland. The population is almost 25, 25 people. Only 22 people and 13 people are worse in Chile and Mexico, but I don't think we want to compare ourselves with these countries. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have Norway, where for every 1,000 inhabitants there are - attention - 100 employees in health care. That's 400%. what we have in Poland today. What does that tell you? The budget is too small. Our neighbors spend a lot more on health care than we do. Only Turkey, Latvia and Mexico are worse off than us in the 35 countries included in the OECD report. The scale between us and the best is simply appalling. We don't have enough equipment, we don't have enough money, we don't have enough doctors and nurses, but we lead in two areas. First of all, it is about the length of queues for planned treatments and operations - Poles know it best - secondly, it is the number of beds per inhabitant. This probably means that at least periodically we keep empty beds on empty wards that just need to be cleaned up and warmed up. There's no more waste to be cultivated. Since the start of the doctor's protest, we have heard that the government is increasing its health spending. So it's worth comparing the last two years to see if that's what it looks like. Note: health expenditure from the state budget for 2017 is PLN 7405 million, for 2018 and PLN 7291 million. As I count well, or rather I have no problems with it, this is a drop of more than PLN 100 million, or 1.5%. As far as the special reserve is concerned, there will actually be more than 600 million PLN here. In fact, the government has shown itself: an increase of 1/4 in relation to what Minister Macierewicz was given for the program of the Strzelnica in each district. Even if someone in Poland believes that building shooting galleries is important, it seems that in this competition health should nevertheless be a priority. Bravo. The Prime Minister may say, of course, but we have raised the residents. We know very well, at least those involved in financial matters, that post-graduate traineeships, residencys and training for nurses are carried out by the Labour Fund. And here it is. We have an increase of PLN 150 million, but you forget to say that this is not a good gesture of the Minister of Finance or of the Prime Minister, but it is simply a good economic situation in the labour market and the Labour Fund just dripping more. As far as the National Health Fund is concerned, maybe this is where the government made some more money. The National Health Fund will actually get a little more money, although it's actually a drop in the sea of needs. The fund's budget will be PLN 77.5 billion this year. This is an increase of 2.8 billion, but - attention - it is again not the reason of the Government of Law and Justice, the good heart of the Minister, who wants to take care of the health of Poles, but just falling unemployment and better economic conditions in the labour market give higher influence. Of what? It's a health contribution. So if we could sum up everything completely, we'd have to say, "The king walks naked." [[Oh, come on.]] The government gave virtually nothing more to health than last year, because the government prefers to spend on shooters, propaganda, non-profit mines, new services and institutes where you'll create what? Tables for the next Misiewicz. There's no money for health. A fight for clean air. Let's see what this prime minister's priority looks like. The total amount allocated to spending on better air care in Poland is only PLN 200 million, and the needs are at least several billion zlotys per year. 200 million PLN for comparison again 10% expenditure allocated to the shooting gallery of Minister Macierewicz. Minister Szyszko will probably defend itself that the replacement of boilers, furnaces can take place within the framework of a thermomodernisation fund. The total budget of the fund is PLN 20 million. [[There's no Minister Szyszko.]] [[Minister Szyszko has fallen.]] [[But it will be reborn like a Phoenix from the ashes.]] Attention, last year this budget was more than three times more. The government couldn't even make sure it filled the money back up. Accommodation+. There's a lot of talk about housing. So maybe the fight to improve the housing conditions of the citizens was successful? No, it's not. On January 2, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego launched the last pot under the MdM, apartments for young people. [[For the wealthy.]] In the pot there was a total of PLN 381 million, i.e., attention, 19% Budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] intended for the shooting range. As expected, the money ran out in two days. January 4th was after the show. A little more has also been spent on living+ and living in the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u31	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Since this budget does not solve the key problems of Poles and Poles, the Modern Club is unable to support it. [[Maybe it is. How about it, Member?]] I submit a motion for rejection at second reading, as well as amendments to the Modern Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have much time, but I want to focus on the most important things and the size that are included in this budget and that speak for themselves. On GDP, we no longer have any doubts, there is consumption in Poland, there is a decrease in exports, there is a low level of investment. As far as these investments are concerned, property expenditure is only PLN 21 billion, half of which goes to defence, while small amounts go to transport and communication and health protection. As far as multiannual programmes are concerned, the construction of national roads is PLN 4.2 billion, although it is a 10-year programme worth 194 billion. It's not 19 billion, it's 4.2 billion. National Railway Programme as an example - 1.9 billions. With a 10-year programme worth 66.5 billion, about 6 billion should be planned, if we are talking about proportions. In the explanatory memorandum of the project, the government states that it has actually managed to prepare only so many investment tasks. Therefore, I do not know whether this is acceptable, because it is known that without investment there is no development. The one who doesn't invest is standing still, certainly isn't developing. But in local governments, they're prepared, they've got documentation. There you go: 4-year program of reconstruction of local roads, very necessary, implemented by municipal and district authorities. Let this need be borne out by the fact that the government even planned additional fuel taxation to implement this programme. Well, since it could not be transferred to the direct costs incurred by Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This reduced the funds in this programme to 800 million. We therefore make another amendment because the municipalities are prepared to implement these investments. They've got documentation. They've got building permits. The only reason they can't do this is because the government has cut resources. So, according to this size... Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Draw close to the end, Member. ...this noisy development program has nothing to do with reality. Indeed, this is a denial of state development in 2018. I'm putting together your marshal, your corrections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u35	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Polish... Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u36	Oh, God, don't give me that. [[Voice from the hall: Do not call upon the Lord God in vain.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. During this important 2018 budget debate, one of the tasks which is included in the draft budget law and which, at the same time, in the exposé of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is considered to be a priority for his government, namely health. This problem also deserves attention in the face of the cassandric visions, in the light of the half-truths and misinformation that the opposition here, in this High House, and in the local media, sends to society. So it deserves to take a few minutes. The description of the draft budget for 2018 was quite detailed on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice at first reading in October of the previous year. However, the above mentioned criteria are not fulfilled. I would like to pay particular attention to some of the reasons. High Izbo! Never before has any government pointed to health care as a priority. [[And that's why there's less money.]] The aim of the current government is to increase the expenditure on health protection in order to remove all the negligence of our predecessors in this area of life, but the government also cares about increasing the efficiency of the use of these measures. This is not just our goal for the future. We have achieved this goal since the beginning of the reign of this coalition. In 2017, we spent PLN 8 billion more on health care compared to 2016, up to PLN 86 billion on health care, including NFZ funds of course. In 2018 we are planning another increase, by PLN 6 billion, to PLN 94-95 billion. Total expenditure in the heading: Health protection in the state budget for 2018 was planned at PLN 6200 million, but in addition we have special reserves, expenditure with the participation of the European Union - PLN 78 million, sorry, special reserves - PLN 8 billion. Then we have the funds of the Labour Fund, which finance internships and medical specialisations, as well as expenditure in the Gambling Problems Fund for health care planned for a total of over 9 billion, 9600 million etc., and with the budget of European funds it is PLN 10 214 million, which means an increase of 7.6% compared to the expenditure plan in 2017. This is the answer to this charge that is being brought from this opposition speaker that there is no increase in expenditure. You're just saying the wrong thing, or you're not analyzing the budget. At the beginning of the observation it is necessary to note that 2018 is the first year in which the most important law for this area begins to apply, namely the Law on the amendment of the Law on benefits financed by public funds of 24 November 2017, which assumes that the financing of health protection will be allocated annually to certain measures in the amounts set out in this Act, which in relation to the gross domestic product after 7 years will result in additional appropriations exceeding what was - PLN 540 billion. And yes. If we spend 4.67% on health care this year GDP, the following year we have 4,86% guaranteed by law, 5,03, 5,22, 5,41 and 5,80. As a result, we have 6%. in 2025. And it is not true that we are delaying the increase in health care measures for 2025. This growth is already happening, systematically every year, giving a total of PLN 540 billion. Of course, this is a minimum value, because, as far as possible, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will allocate free funds to finance health needs in a given year. The salaries of nurses, rescuers and residents are also increasing. Within 3.5 years, the Act on Minimum Basic Compensation in Health Care will put more than PLN 16 billion in the pocket of medical workers. According to this law, the basic salary of a specialist doctor in 2021 will not be lower than PLN 6350 and the remuneration of a resident doctor less than PLN 5250. These are the first raises in health care for many years... [[That's not true.]] ...because the previous PO-PSL government did not solve this problem systemically, e.g. This regulation was promised to raise nurses, 4 x 400, at the end of the term of office, but this is already an effort by the Government of Law and Justice. The 2018 budget secures funds for salary increases for medical rescuers, medical dispatchers and nurses and midwives of PLN 177 million. These are measures above those directly included in the voivodship budgets. They will be allocated to increases for nurses and midwives in accordance with the regulation of the Minister of Health mentioned by me of 8 September 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the total amount for the increase in 2018 will be PLN 4800 per job. Please listen carefully: PLN 4800 per job, as additionally they will receive PLN 400 per month throughout the year. The increase for medical rescue workers, nurses and midwives at subcontractors and medical dispatchers on the basis of an agreement concluded with the Minister of Health is another amount allocated from the state budget. The amount for the increase in 2018 will be PLN 9600 per job, PLN 800 per month throughout the year. Ladies and gentlemen! The remuneration of residents will also increase over the coming years. We understand and see the problem in this regard. The amount for remuneration for residents and trainees reserved in the budget in 2015, under the PO and PSL governments, amounted to PLN 812 million. We increased this in 2016 and 2017 and for next year - 2018 - we propose and have budgeted 40% bigger than she reserved and spent a coalition of PO from PSL for raises for residents, that is to the level of 1279 million PLN. You can say you can't listen to this because these are facts that prick you in the eye. We are removing the consequences of our predecessors' inaction in this respect, in terms of not paying hospitals for overdoing. We have already allocated over 1 billion subsidies this year from the state budget to the National Health Fund to pay for overperformance to hospitals that you have ignored because your goal was to commercialise and privatise hospitals. And we have the consequences. [[And yours is television.]] We have this effect in county hospitals, because your goal was to lease the property of the county hospitals to private companies. We have this effect on the territory of the county Poland. If you would like to know the details, please, please, I will show you around the Lublin Voivodeship and you will see what the results of your health policy look like, how it works, what the quality of services is in hospitals, what the labour inspectors have to say, what the national fund and its departments that control the quality of services provided in these hospitals have to say. This is the result of your policy. We've come back from the wrong way. A reform is being carried out in the form of the establishment of a network of hospitals, which is being implemented for the time being without any special reservations, without emergency. We are watching this process and we will make adjustments as far as possible. We've managed to stop the commercialization of hospitals. We have also carried out, in the form of a law already adopted, a reform of basic health care. We've introduced free meds for seniors. 50 million packages reached seniors as free drugs. Thanks to free pneumococcal vaccinations, parents saved up to PLN 1300. We're increasing the number of admissions to medical schools. Total opposition in local media, and also here, as I mentioned at the beginning, disinformations, repeats lies, half-truths, contradicts facts in the case. You're talking, among other things. about the risk of closure of hospitals. I would like to inform you that the opt-out clause has reached 4% so far. doctors, i.e. About 3.5,000. people against 86 thousand. doctors in hospitals, and 1,900 residents out of 16,000. residents. Complications for this reason have taken place and are taking place in several institutions, but they are also the result of a lack of staff, which for several years has been giving signs to these hospitals, often to hospitals on the outskirts. You didn't do anything about it, you ignored the problem. Today, all those who contributed to this state of affairs, to the liquidation of post-graduate internships, who did not provide increases to residents, did not increase the recruitment for medical studies, what we do, the internships also returned, who misdivided residents, ignored doctors' demands, ignored signals about a fatal situation in health care, e.g. At the Children's Health Center, they described the protests of doctors as protests of a marginal group without any meaning, right, only inciting the others... [[Radziel spoke.]] That's what I'm talking about. That's what you said, Minister Arłukowicz. [[I'll be right with you.]] ...attacking us. You're attacking us for your negligence, throwing the consequences of your negligence on the government of law and justice, denying the facts. As I have a few more minutes, I would like to draw your attention to what is still in the 2018 Budget Act. The 2018 Budget Act includes three new multi-annual programmes: the second stage of the construction of the Clinical and Dydactic Centre of the Medical University of Łódź, the multi-annual medical programme of the extension of the University Hospital in Bydgoszcz, the financing of the project related to the prevention of the negative effects of pilot deficit in the helicopter Medical Rescue Service and the modernisation of the aircraft transport team in the Air Rescue Emergency Service. Increased admission limit for nursing in medical schools. The amount of 12 800 million is reserved in the budget for this purpose. It is planned to take first-cycle studies in nursing, which will allow 12 medical universities to increase admission limits by 521 people from the 2018-2019 academic year. These are concrete actions. Increase in the remuneration of the staff of the medicinal entities operating in the budgetary unit - PLN 40 billion. Introduction of the electronic right to pursue the profession of doctor and dentist - the amount of PLN 6 billion. Security of measures resulting from the amendment of the Law on State Medical Rescue, so-called. a small amendment - an amount of PLN 8165 million. [[What are you saying?]] These measures will allow funding for the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue, which has a very wide range of tasks, I will not quote this. The establishment of a public institution for the improvement of teachers of vocational subjects of national scope in the field of teaching in professions, for which according to the classification of professional education, the Minister for Development is the competent minister - an amount of 2686 thousand. [[That's all you should say in millions.]] In addition, the draft budget law secures funds for increases for nurses, for rescuers, as I mentioned - PLN 177 million. Post-graduate training of doctors, dentists, nurses, post-graduate internships, specializations - measures of the level mentioned above, i.e. PLN 1179 million, i.e. 14% even more than 2017 and there was also growth. Ladies and gentlemen! Numbers can be lied to, data can be lied to, because it is easy in the eyes of the neighbour, the Member, to see a blade and not even a beam in his own eye. I'm asking you to reflect in this direction. Thank you. [[That's what you said. You should be talking about millions, not billions.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u37	You're welcome... [[I'm glad you know.]] [[You should have said billions instead of billions.]] ...Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to this last speech about the billions coming from left to right into the health system. Member, let's start by saying that you didn't give the money, but all Poles threw themselves into this money. [[Applause]] You have to tell people the truth. Don't tell me you've made some kind of grace, some kind of gift to the Poles. You didn't do anything, and even if you did, the result of this today is just the celebration that we just followed: the resignation of Minister Radziwiłłła. [[Applause]] If it was so wonderful, ask the Poles, ask the residents of Rzeszow how they are treated today at the E.R. and how they were treated 3 years ago. Ask the residents of Kluczbork if they prefer to have a shooting range or if they prefer to have a walking internist unit. Ask these people. Then you'll know what the truth is. After all, it was nobody other than Minister Radziwiłł who criticized the hospital network of the Minister of Religion and then introduced it himself. It was nobody other than this minister who spent six months chasing around the Seym with a pill day after day and did not notice that during these two years syrup for children after transplants was used in your house from PLN 3,20, because at this price we left it when we left the government, to PLN 817. These are hard facts. [[Applause]] Do you want to tell your kids after the transplants that you're wrong about wanting, I don't know, to buy dentobuses? These are the people who are fighting for their lives. Their tablets and syrups were used from PLN 3.20 to PLN 817 because you were chasing one ideological tablet after the Seym. These are hard facts. We're fixing... [[You're chasing.]] You know, I'm not chasing anybody. I try to show people the truth and tell people the truth about your governments. Ask the seniors how delighted they are with those free drugs that Prime Minister Szydło spoke of. Or maybe the new Minister of Health, who was appointed today, will answer my question in writing, how many dental offices have you opened? It is none other than Prime Minister Szydło from this speaker said: dental offices will be created in schools. Show me those schools, show me those dental offices. [[There isn't.]] Why don't we ask the seniors how many of these drugs they got for free? [[There isn't.]] Tell people the truth because people see what you're doing. You can curse reality, you can tell all these stories here, and people can see what is happening in Poland. That is why we have prepared amendments to be tabled on this budget, in which of the absurdities on which you want to spend billions of zloty, we will shift these funds precisely so that in 2021 the financing of the health system is 6%. GDP. Ask the Poles if they want shooters or hospitals, because you planned an absurd expense, 2.6 billion PLN, at the shooting range in each district. Do you see this absurdity? This government wants to build you a shooting range and at the same time leads you to lock up your hospital units because no one has the guts, first, to talk to doctors, second, to make key decisions because you've been doing ideology over the last two years. We give the new minister an opportunity, perhaps to change the understanding of the approach to the health system to the fact that here we are not guided by encyclicals, but by an encyclopedia. And that is a significant difference within the meaning of the State between us. Your business, your budget, your thinking about the state is driven by ideology, and people need an internist. And while we were increasing the number of residences, Minister Radziwiłł's first decision was among others. It's to reduce the number of residences. Now you're awake, how you figured out what the residents' protest is about. These people came to you in October for a few weeks saying there's gonna be trouble in a minute. You ignored it, you didn't see it, you pretended it wasn't there. These people were starving. And what have you led to? To the fact that children's psychiatric hospitals are being shut down today, that internists are dying today, because Radziwił was walking and whispering the reality that a network of hospitals will cure the situation. As she healed, all Poles see. Ask the people of Kluczbork if they'd rather have an internist squad or if they'd rather have a shooting range, they'll tell you. Go there, stand in the market, and you'll hear the answer. Another VIP plane - 800 million, the Territorial Defence Army - 568 million. Look what you've done to our Poland. You guys build shooting galleries, you build the Territorial Defense Army, you buy new planes, and people want to live normal lives. We are introducing amendments to the budget law to move 6,7 billion to the financing of the health system for 4 years, consequently to PLN 26,7 billion. This will allow you to increase the number of residents, increase the salary of residents, but also reduce the gap between the earnings of nurses and doctors, because these actually are, and that's just what you have to do. We adopted a law, adopted legal solutions that guaranteed 4 times 400 PLN for nurses. You did armageddon in this system, and that's why you canceled Radziwill today. How symbolic. How symbolic, today we discuss the year 2018, about the budget, among others. to protect health, and in such a dislike, without cameras, the receding ministers, including Minister Radziwiłł, are running away from the Presidential Palace. You were even ashamed to show it in public. [[You're ashamed of Minister Radziwiłł.]] I hear what you're saying. I'm ashamed to say it. You know, first of all, you don't know it, second of all, you're taking the floor on things you don't know anything about, and third of all, you're showing some kind of political ignorance, telling all of this that it's so good when you're calling off the Minister of Health exactly today. Once again, I'm pointing out, and I'm finishing: 26,7. billions over 4 years, up to 2021, for the health system, 6,7 billion this year are being transferred. We show you these absurdities: not shooting galleries, but hospitals. And understand that you are responsible for the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u39	Mr Andrzej Noblet, Club Law and Justice, will speak. [[I'll be treating myself in a minute at the quack's.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Before I go on to discuss two important parts of the budget, I wanted to draw the attention of Mr Richard Petru, whom I do not see in the Chamber at the moment, that he was so fascinated by the creation of a new political-propagandal existence. Petru's plan that he missed what was happening in the Polish Seym. He slept through his first reading, and during the second reading debate in his own style, he passed the hyperfailure, he said during that second reading... [[No, sir, he was wrong.]] ...that he is applying for the rejection of the budget law at first reading. That is by the way, because the Member is interested in not law or budget debate, but in its unreflective criticism. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech I wanted to refer mainly to two important parts of the budget, important for the development of civilization of Poland, i.e. part 38: Higher education and part 28: Science. The state budget for 2018 plans expenditure on higher education of PLN 16.5 billion, of which just over PLN 16 billion is from the state budget and nearly PLN 512 million comes from the European Union. Compared to 2017, higher education expenditures are 3.5% higher. Expenditure on higher education is planned in the state budget in nine budgetary parts and in the budget expenditure of European funds in three budgetary parts. These expenditures are included in the budgets of the eight ministries. The largest amount is planned under heading 803: Higher education in the field of the Minister of Science and Higher Education of over PLN 15.5 billion. These funds finance 59 academic Polish universities, 34 professional public universities supervised by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, six universities run by the Churches and religious unions and five public military universities supervised by the Minister of National Defence. More than PLN 416 million are planned for investment development in higher education for 2018, including the continuation of the multiannual programme for the University of Warsaw. Over PLN 600 million have been planned for expenditure on financing and co-financing of projects involving European Union funds, of which over 511 million from the European budget. It should be pointed out that it is envisaged that these expenditures can be supplemented from the relevant reserves - in Part 83: Special provisions - included both in the expenditure of the State budget and in the expenditure of the budget of European funds. In special reserves under item 18 there is planned expenditure on activities of the National Academic Exchange Agency in the amount of PLN 20 million. As part of the expenditure of current higher education, the subsidy for this agency amounts to PLN 34 million. Nearly PLN 175 million is planned for the construction, expansion, modernisation and adaptation of teaching facilities and student houses. The main part of the expenditure, because more than PLN 12,7 billion, is devoted to teaching activities in civil universities, and over PLN 360 million is devoted to activities of military schools and public service schools. More than PLN 1840 million is spent in the budget for material aid for students and PhD students in public, non-public and six universities run by churches and religious unions and for scientific units conducting doctoral studies. For quality tasks, e.g. for the best PhD students and students who obtained the best results of their Matura exams in the year of the start of their studies, 450 million PLN were allocated to the state budget for 2018. Expenditure on financing and co-financing of projects involving European Union funds is planned to amount to PLN 480 million for 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover projects implemented by the National Centre for Research and Development in the amount of nearly PLN 283 million under the Operational Programme (Technical assistance) 2014 and the Operational Programme (Knowledge, education, development) 2014-2020. Over PLN 236 million were secured in the budget for the second programme. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The second part of the budget important for the development of civilization, intellectual, innovative, development of technical thought is part of the 28: Science. The 2018 Budget Act plans to spend more than PLN 9277 million on Polish science. Compared with the corresponding expenditure in 2017, the expenditure on science increases by nearly PLN 822 million. [[So what?]] This is a nominal increase of almost 10%. In this way, the government pursues its strategic objective, which is the planned level of spending on science of 1%. GDP. It is worth mentioning that 3% of the EU's R &amp; D expenditure was set up under the Lisbon Strategy in 2003 GDP. Poland exceeded its R &amp; D expenditure of 1% in 2016 GDP. According to the new Europe 2020 strategy, the projected increase in R &amp; D expenditure for 2020 in Poland is 1.7% GDP. The increase in science spending planned in the draft state budget for 2018 is a good example of moving towards the objective of growth. In Part 28 itself: Science has planned expenditures of more than PLN 6.5 billion. After taking into account the expenditure of European funds for Part 28, total expenditure on science amounts to nearly PLN 7.8 billion. Of this PLN 7.5 billion is placed in section 730: Science and over PLN 200 million in section 752: National defence. In addition, as regards the special reserve which remains within the competence of the Minister for Science and Higher Education, included in Part 83: Measures to increase research expenditure were secured by the amount of PLN 360 million. Thus, the total funding for the research area amounts to more than PLN 8135 million. Under heading 730: Science and other parts of the budget, nearly PLN 92 million were planned, including for the Polish Academy of Sciences the amount of PLN 81.5 million. The budget of other ministries for R &amp; D activities is planned for PLN 1020 million. The largest part of the funding allocated to scientific activities is planned in the 2018 Budget Act for scientific units for statutory and investment activities, amounting to PLN 3209 million. 1359 million PLN is planned for the activities of the National Centre for Research and Development. Nearly PLN 470 million have been secured in the state budget for cooperation with foreign countries, which represents a more than 6% increase in expenditure for this purpose. This is important to ensure the exchange of scientific knowledge, especially for young researchers. More than PLN 70 million are planned for the dissemination of science in the budget. It is worth noting that total expenditure on science and higher education increases in 2018 by more than PLN 1400 million compared to 2017. Speaking of funding for science, it is necessary to mention expenditure on operational programmes in the framework of the implementation of projects involving the European Union, Smart Development 2014 2014-2020, Technical assistance 2014-2020, and projects implemented under European Union programmes, co-financed by non-refundable foreign funds of a total amount of over PLN 1400 million. The National Centre for Research and Development together with PKP Polish Railway Lines will allocate PLN 50 million to modern rail transport system, faster and greener travel and innovative IT systems. This joint venture will last until 2023 and is the first project in Poland's history dedicated to railway infrastructure. The National Centre for Research and Development leads the selection of proposals in the second Bridge Alpha competition supporting innovative programs from the idea to industry, which aim to develop innovative projects and then commercialise them. This is supported by a network of investment vehicles complementing the innovation support system at all stages of the project and contributing to the government's strategy for responsible development. Finally, it is worth mentioning the amount of PLN 500 million for research into the development of new Polish medicines and their implementation into production. Recently, the Prime Minister of the Polish government Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about this. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u41	The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When you listen to the PiS Members in the budget debate, it is actually unclear whether TVP Info on its stripes quotes PiS politicians or PiS politicians quote the propaganda stripes of television. Because what did we hear in the budget debate today? We heard that for eight years, the Civic Platform didn't care about a simple man at all and everyone lived very badly. This is PiS propaganda. What are the facts? The facts are that during these eight years the distance between the European Union and Poland measured per capita GDP, so per citizen, has decreased by almost 20%. and the minimum wage, contrary to the propaganda lies of PiS, at the same time increased from 936 PLN to 1850 PLN, that is almost 100%. What are you talking about, and what right do you lie here in the Polish Seym? [[Applause]] Another lie - we heard that Poland is developing as never before. Average annual GDP growth over your 2 years is 3.5%, that's exactly what Poland averaged over the last quarter of a century. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Medium-year, sir. Another propaganda message from today is investment and innovation. This is a message that's been going on for two years. The third year in a row of PiS in the Budget Act is planning a major investment leap. The previous two were paper jumps, and this year it will be similar. But they have a propaganda advantage and even two benefits. When the Minister of Development comes out at the beginning of the year and says that investment will finally start with a full pair, citizens can see the great Polish competitive economy through the eyes of imagination. There's a propaganda success. At the end of the year, as it turns out that Morawiecki has failed again, there is still an investment collapse, the Minister of Finance comes out and says that the deficit is much lower. Well, they didn't spend money on investments, they have a lower deficit. [[Applause]] And again, the propaganda success of the PiS style. In 2016, the Council PiS spent 60% measures still planned by the Civic Platform to co-finance EU investment. This is why GDP growth in 2016 instead of more than 4% it was only 2.7%. Has anything improved last year? It's gotten worse. After 11 months they invested only 48% appropriations planned in the budget, i.e. once again successful, because the deficit will be lower. Of the over 300 billion that the Civic Platform and PSL government brought to you and put on the table, you spent 33 billion - 10%. If you spend money at this rate, in order for you to spend it, this prospect would have to last for you by 2030, but I do not think that the Union will make such a bow towards you. There are programs for which not even 10% has been spent. What are the programs? It is about flagship projects, flagship programs of the Great Poland from the SOR - about innovative development programmes and digital Poland, i.e. the favourites of Prime Minister Morawiecki and Prime Minister Gowin. As far as innovation is concerned, this is 7%. implementation, whereas in the case of digital Poland - 4%. Eastern Poland programme - 7% implementation. Really, we congratulate and the pace of investment, and innovation, and support the competitiveness of the Polish economy. You know what it turns out? The fact that the trap for Poland's development, the trap of medium development, against which your Prime Minister so warned, is nothing more than a PiS. [[Applause]] It is your governments that are the biggest trap for the development of Poland, and it is this long-term development of real development, which will not end with economic prosperity, but will provide economic security for Poles for many years. It is also worth knowing why we have such a collapse in investments, why money is actually on the table, just reach for it, there is overliquidity in companies, and no one is investing. The reasons are at least three. The first is that for a year you frozen the funds in general, went to the Union, you wanted to turn everything upside down and change it, and you sent the CBA to the marshals. This led to a 30% decrease in investment in 2016. The second reason is that you can't build anything at all, you can only tear it down and destroy it, from democracy to investment, social capital. You even destroyed the Polish community because we were a community before your government. We were a community, but you guys started dividing us into kinders, thieves, scumbags, murderers, communists. You destroyed what is most precious in the nation, destroyed the community. There's no development in this atmosphere, and it's your fault. Finally, the third reason is, of course, related to what I was just talking about. Private investors fear PiS, fear chaos in the law, party courts, oppressive fiscals, and finally the vindictive attorney general, who has been chasing God's spirit of guilty doctors for 10 years. How do you want to call for investment in this atmosphere and in this climate? That is why investment is a cure and there will be no breakthrough, Mr Sasin. The breakthrough in investments will be only then, when the sovereign shows you the red card, and will show you this card soon, because Poles certainly prefer that the Prime Minister of Poland, instead of Christianizing Europe, negotiate the best budget for Poland. There is no more important issue for the Polish Prime Minister today than negotiating a good budget for the next EU perspective. It is the task of this Prime Minister, and it has been for months, but none of you have noticed it. Finally, let us say how Prime Minister Morawiecki, in relation to this mission, negotiated as much money as possible for the next government, which will be able to invest, I assure you, has begun to repair relations with the European Union. He began by fleeing the Brussels Summit. To this day, we don't really know why. And he did one more thing: he responded to the economists' appeal. The Economists actually threw a rescue wheel at Moravian. They proposed: Let us start the debate on the euro area. Let's not talk about the date, let's not say when, that's for sure already. Let the debate begin. Turns out, when it comes to this rescue wheel, it's this wheel. Morawiecki got more hit in the head than he used it because he said that we are not interested in this debate at all, that we are not interested in the euro area at all. He said so and went to negotiate another EU perspective. Really, diplomacy has always been your weakness, but to be honest, I wasn't even expecting it. As we add to this the full acceptance of Morawiecki's Prime Minister for judicial laws - we know what the whole world thinks about them - it is enough that the mission of Morawiecki's Prime Minister ends and burns on the panewka before it really begins. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u43	Ms Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! The 2018 draft budget provides for expenditure on education, education and care of over PLN 45.5 billion, i.e. 3.5% more than in the previous year. In absolute amount it is 1.5 billion PLN more. This size includes, among others, expenditure under heading 801: Education and upbringing - in the amount of 1 926 828 000. PLN, in section 854: Educational education - 113 178 thousand. zł, in section 758: Various accounts. The educational part of the general subsidy for local government units - 43 079 335 thousand. zł. As this is the highest position of educational expenditure, this issue needs to be discussed. This item takes into account the financial implications of the change in the number of teachers' posts and the promotion of teachers employed in schools and educational establishments conducted by local government units in 2018 and the appropriations intended to increase the salaries of teachers employed in schools and educational establishments run by local governments by 5% from 1 April of this year. A reduction of 9417 000 was also taken into account. PLN in connection with the transfer by local authorities, by agreement, of schools to run by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. They have been moved to Part 32: Agriculture. When from this speaker on October 10th Ub. I quoted the words saying that whoever thinks forward for a year is sowing grain, for 10 years - plants the forest, and who runs far into the future, educates and raises children and young people, has been heard from opposition benches: he releases teachers. How untrue it turned out to be. Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with education reform already since 1 September Ub. More teachers were hired. It was made by 16,000. teaching posts more than in the previous year. The ominous predictions of the opposition and some backgrounds regarding the dismissal of teachers and the increase in the number of teachers working part-time in several schools have not been confirmed. Of course, such situations have happened and happen, but this applies to a small number of them. The title in the 19 December 2017 Journal of the Legal Gazette says a lot about the subject: "The unexpected effect of education reform: More full-time teachers. I'm sending the title back to it. Education reform has been implemented and implemented. Its final effects will be known in a few years, but we can already say that most local governments did not have a problem with it, although some actually raised difficulties, sometimes artificially, but also there everything is normal. But I'm going back to the budget. Part 83: The special provisions also provide for financial resources for the functioning of broadly understood education. This appropriation is intended to cover the promotion of teachers, the scholarships of the President of the Council of Ministers for particularly talented students, the means of equalising educational opportunities for children and young people, the provision of access to free textbooks, educational materials and training materials for pupils and the implementation of the government programme - an active table - an amount of 848 200 000. - measures for the implementation of the multiannual programme of State aid for nutrition, measures for the implementation of tasks under the programme "Safe+..." measures for increasing the availability of pre-school education, for raising the salaries of teachers employed in schools and educational establishments run by government administrations. In the budget of European funds, expenditure is planned for the implementation of operational programmes, including the Operational Programme Knowledge, education and development. The total amount of expenditure for education in 2018 is over PLN 1800 million. Taking into account the entire budget as very ambitious and safe, it can be concluded that the planned expenditure on education, education and care will fully fulfil the tasks imposed in this regard. This is a real budget, and at the same time an optimistic one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u46	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Somehow that emotional voice... [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Optimism.]] ...I have not noticed this optimism in my previous speaker, nor have I noticed in other members of the PiS. I would like to say that as in the American Western at midday, Mr. Minister for National Defence, the Minister for Health, Mr. Minister for the Environment, [[Applause]] And you are still praying to this budget. And we don't know anything today. The Prime Minister expressed a vote of distrust against them. Previously, the President expressed a vote of distrust towards Prime Minister Szydło, today the Prime Minister expressed a vote of distrust towards ministers. So what did those who had previously brought this budget to the Sejm offer? According to the principle: to whom, who can and who can not, the Minister of National Defence recommended among others. purchase of VIP aircraft, but there is no purchase of helicopters for the army, there is no helicopter program. The Minister said: the Army of Territorial Defence, shooting range, roads, and even some columns for the century. But there's no defense strategy, generals are fired. And so what if national defense expenses are increased by 2%, 2.5%? How do you guys just give advance payments? And as Marilyn Monroe said, the money of happiness does not give - and Minister Macierewicz did not give that happiness - only shopping brings happiness. So the Minister of National Defense said goodbye. He wasn't even at the Presidential Palace. Therefore, we do not know how the new minister, who is responsible for part of the budget, will proceed in this regard, i.e. Minister Błaszczak, who has taken over the new resort. Who doesn't? As far as the roads go, who doesn't. You promised PLN 1 billion in 2017 for the construction of municipal and district roads. You gave 800 million, you didn't give 200 million to local governments. You didn't. In 2018 you also say, with a mouth full of clichés: 2018 is a great year. So? This multi-annual plan is 1100 million. How much is it? 800 million. You don't give 300 million. You promised it yourself. And a road construction program, which is a multi-annual national road construction programme. In this plan, you assumed 27 billion. How much is in this plan? 20 billion. So you assume, you say it's great that there's growth, and you don't give money for it. You're talking about the new Self-Government Road Fund. And once again, about the new road financing idea, the state talked about an increase in fuel prices for all drivers. So, ladies and gentlemen, what's the next tax you're not talking about today? Living for young people. We have argued on this issue many times. The state once said, in the past: 3 million apartments for Poles. So? Nothing. After two years, you walked away from it. Now you must remember: after 2 days in 2018 the program ended for the young people. We therefore propose to increase the money for this purpose. Cheers. I am not surprised that Mrs Masłowska focused only on numbers and did not say about queues. The queues are bigger, the money is more out of our pockets because we pay contributions. But you've made chaos. The former Minister of Health, Minister Radziwiłł, has died. This is a summary, and this is what you should... What's the idea for the future, I don't know. You translate and say that wages are rising. Of course, they're paid by entrepreneurs. But my colleague, Mrs Leszczyna, said: For 8 years, the average wage or the lowest wage has been doubled, and you say: "It is good to make this increase and introduce another tax. It is easy, but you have done nothing to facilitate and guarantee safe financing for the development of the Polish economy. And you're talking about the fact that unemployment has decreased. Sure. There's a lot of wage pressure and there's an employee market, but you've moved to retirement or applied to retire over 300,000. Poles, and thus it is easy to talk about reducing unemployment. My colleagues have said that this budget is worth rejecting. As the Polish proverb says: children and longs grow like mushrooms after rain. Your debt and debt of Poles also grow like mushrooms after rain. This is a bad budget. This shows that even Prime Minister Morawiecki has no confidence in the ministers who are to implement the budget, and very many key ministers have cancelled at noon today. This is the failure of this project, which was made up by ministers a few months ago, who died today. Goodbye. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Goodbye.]] Goodbye, ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u47	Mrs Barbara Bubula, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm gonna start by making club adjustments so we don't get past the formalities. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u50	On the other hand, I want to devote my speech to a very important topic in 2018, the year of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by Poland and Poles, i.e. I will talk about the expenditure of the state budget on culture. The implementation of the budget in 2017, which has just ended, shows that thanks to the very good execution of budget revenues during the year, even hundreds of billions or nearly billions of amounts at the end of the year can be transferred to important expenditures in the field of culture, such as the investment in the Museum of Kresów in Lublin or the buy-out of priceless Polish Recordings, or very large funds are spent on compensation of expenditure, shortage of subscription funds, expenditure in the field of culture for Polish Radio and Television. A year earlier, which I will also remind you, we also had at the end of the year a historical purchase of the Czartoryski collection with the work of Leonardo da Vinci. Therefore, although cultural expenditure in the draft budget for 2018 is set at a minimum of 1% total expenditure, this experience and consistent policy of the Government of Law and Justice show that these amounts will in practice be significantly increased during the year due to good budget implementation. As part of the amendments accepted by the Committee on Public Finance, as I would like to point out, we have another major improvement in the field of neglected so far. By the amount of more than PLN 5 million will increase in the voivod's budgets funds for the financing of heritage conservation services, including for the long-awaited salary increase. Thus, the current amount of more than 115 million will be invested in a way that exceeds other wage regulations in the budgetary area. However, I return to the overall policy and funding of culture. Expenditure in heading 921: Culture and the protection of national heritage is expected to amount to nearly PLN 1900 million, while including other resources at the disposal of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, funds of the Cultural Promotion Fund, funds of the Monument Protection Fund and European funds, as well as special reserves, we have at our disposal over PLN 4300 million. This means an increase of more than 7% compared to the original budget for 2017. Of course, this will change, because by the end of 2017, these significant additional resources allocated to culture will reduce this indicator. But this is a very important positive change in terms of the level of funding for culture. Among the planned expenditures for 2018 there should be mentioned more than 128 million earmarked for construction and exposition at the Museum of Polish History at the Warsaw Citadel, as well as nearly 73 million for expenditure under the multi-annual programme. On 11 November 2018, an exhibition on the roads to independence was planned to be opened in the pavilion of the Warsaw Citadel. The mobile exhibition, as well as a version for Polish diplomatic offices, will also be prepared. The largest group of expenditure in the field: Culture and the protection of national heritage is the financing of the activities of state cultural institutions. In total, this is the amount of over PLN 1 billion. These are both ministerial institutions and nearly 40 co-financed local authorities. It is important to have a policy of protecting the ministry of new, neglected institutions. Each year brings significant improvements in this area. The list is long, and the symbol of this good policy is the acquisition of a museum of technology or Polish Recordings. You also need to mention, for example. to be co-patroned, co-financed by the Polish Theatre or the Mazowsze team. On this occasion, when discussing the budget, it is worth mentioning interesting cultural initiatives for which budget expenditure will be allocated. Here is the Grand National Opera Theatre intending to begin energetic preparations for the 200th anniversary of Stanisław Moniuszko's birth, which will take place in 2019. Here the National Philharmonic has planned a new series of symphonic and chamber concerts commemorating the regaining of independence called "The Free Poland," including a replica of concerts from 1932 planned for November, when Grzegorz Fitelberg conducted, and Karol Szymanowski sat at the piano. This is the National Institute of Fryderyk Chopin, following the huge success of Chopin competitions, he planned to organize an additional Chopin competition on instruments from the era. It is very important, experiencing a huge wave of popularity among music lovers in the world of classical music production. We count on this, also thanks to taking this project as a patronage and broadcasting it on Polish Television, that it will be a new international hit when it comes to promoting high-level entertainment among music lovers all over the world. Here the National Theatre will organize in November the festival about 15 titles of Polish drama, and November will be on this stage only a month of Polish repertoire. The gallery of Zachęta plans an exhibition titled "The Glass Houses," which tells about the 20th anniversary of the interwar and the construction of an independent, modern state. Here's what I want to pay particular attention to, the Totalitarian Research Centre for them. Witold Pilecki plans to carry out the project "Terror Records," within which they will be obtained, developed and, most importantly, translated into English testimony from processes testifying about German and Soviet crimes, and selected certificates will be posted on the Internet, which will greatly alter the possibility of international researchers to access the source materials of Polish history. In turn the National Film Library - Audiovisual Institute will carry out a project of 100 poems and 100 songs on the 100th anniversary of independence and will create a virtual monument of independence. In 2018 it is also planned to open a saved technical museum, which has become a national institution. In modern form, the achievements of Polish technical thought in areas such as transport, ecology, teletechnics and medicine will be presented there. The priceless harvest will finally be secured and made available accordingly. The cultural budget will also finance the activities of the State Archives. They are very rarely spoken of from the Seym tribune. So let me just say that there are nearly 46 million archival units of invaluable value for the Polish state in the archive resources. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As regards the protection of monuments and the care of monuments, we planned to spend nearly PLN 115 million in the budget, and as part of investment expenditure in addition to these significant funds for building the premises of the Museum of History of Poland and for the construction of the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek with the amount of PLN 27 million, we should pay attention to the construction of the premises of the National Archive in Krakow. It's an impressive 14,000-dollar building. m2, with storage area allowing to store 60 km of current files. The investment will take several years. In 2018 a significant amount of PLN 25 million was allocated for this purpose. Among investment expenses, it is also noted that the building is rebuilt and adapted to the seat of the Museum of Cursed Soldiers in Ostrołęka. Nearly 20 million PLN was allocated for this purpose. High Seym! The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage also has significant resources in the budget under heading 801: Education and education. It's a means for the functioning of arts schools, which is 251. For this purpose we will spend nearly PLN 1 billion this year. Similarly, artistic higher education is an important part of cultural activities. For this purpose, the budget will allocate PLN 646 million and the funding will cover 19 universities, including 8 musical institutions, 7 art academy, 2 theatre schools, film school and art academy. High Seym! Finally, there is a significant amount of over PLN 400 million in the budget of European cultural funds. It is not only the Ministry of Culture that participates in the financing of culture. Important measures are also found in other ministries and institutions. The President's law firm traditionally allocates PLN 30 million to revalorize Krakow's monuments. IPN will spend 13 million on cultural purposes, Ministry of Science - 14.5 million, Ministry of Defence - a record 152 million, and 16 million will be dedicated to cultural purposes from the heading: Religious Confession and National and Ethnic Minorities. In conclusion, the High Sejm, the resources for culture in the Jubilee year of regaining independence, their amount and scope of funding, as well as new initiatives in this area deserve the support of the whole Sejm. The policy of the whole government, not only ministries, supports Polish heritage, patriotism and common values of Poles, also deserves support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Referring to previous speeches, I would like to say that there is no optimism in the budget for broadly understood social assistance, and that it is a pity. At the first reading of the draft budget law for 2018, Members of the Civic Platform paid attention to the large financial shortfalls in these parts of the budget. We were convinced that the government would respond positively to the growing needs of poor, elderly, or disabled people. Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister's assurance of additional money for the most deprived remains uncoverable. I think there is no doubt that sick people who have low pensions and at the same time need medical help and a large amount of medication are among the most in need of help and support. Unfortunately, during the work on the budget, the ruling party failed to convince it of the urgent need to increase spending on these very important social objectives. The amendments tabled by the opposition were rejected in the vote at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, and among the numerous and minor amendments made by Members of the Law and Justice, the ones most awaited by the low-income Poles. Thus, the draft budget has not been revised, and as far as the growing social problems are concerned, this has been postponed for years to come. This raises the question: Why does the government, which assumes the merit of economic prosperity, not want to use the effects of this economy to solve, or at least to alleviate social problems? At the same time money - money, I will remind all Poles - is wasted on crazy ideas of rulers, such as. previously mentioned sports range in each county. Current expenditure in central offices is growing rapidly, we have the largest number of deputy ministers. When, if not now, under the good circumstances of the state budget, such sensitive matters as the deep under-financing of social assistance homes as far as the pensions addressed to them before 1 January 2004 are concerned, where the financial security is at the absolute minimum? Can't the government afford to improve the lives of the residents there by increasing the subsidy? This can still be changed by voting in favour of our amendment on this matter. It is very sad to say again today that the government does not see such urgent problems as building environmental homes of self-help, creating hospices or workshops of occupational therapy. Instead of building sports shooters in every county for billions, it would be much better to build environmental self-help homes or workshops in each district. That's what we need. I would like to return to the problems of people with disabilities again. Each year the funds from the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for social rehabilitation are reduced. Rehabilitation turns are history, unfortunately. In general, aid for auxiliary and orthopaedic measures is sufficient for six months with large restrictions on their spending. PFRON and the government significantly reduce funding for people with disabilities. The money for WTZ is insufficient, so new facilities, even though they are very needed, do not arise. Parents of disabled children have no chance of having a place for a child in such a facility, they have no help from anywhere. There is so little to remove the architectural barriers to money that it is not enough for outstanding cases, and new, often very urgent ones, there is no way. I can cite many concrete, drastic examples here, but why? The government knows that, but it's not responding. Again, the lack of resources for the judicial activities of the disability decision-making teams. I've talked about this before. Why didn't the government learn from the dramatic situation last year when many district teams were forced to stop issuing judgments? There have been specific dramas about it, and I don't want to be like them again today. Unfortunately, the draft budget for these objectives is at a very low level, ensuring continuity only in the first half of the year. And I have questions: Can a budget be adopted if it does not secure the necessary resources for government tasks? Is this how a functioning country is supposed to operate in the most vulnerable areas of social life? The Civic Platform Club amends these parts of the budget by calling for their adoption. We count on support, among others. amendment on increasing expenditure on medicines for people aged 75 years or over. Let us take seriously the promise of support for seniors in the form of free medicines. The current solutions are mere fraud, illusory and marginal aid. Seniors have already learned that, and no lofty slogans are going to change that because the facts matter. High Izbo! I call on Members to support all the amendments tabled during the work on the budget on social assistance. Only then can we partially improve the fate of the most deprived. Otherwise, social problems will grow, and with them a sense of harm and exclusion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u53	Mr Soboń, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many words came from this speaker from the opposition about the construction of sports shooters. The words were not very wise and far too many, and certainly these expenses in your eyes grew at such a geometric rate, so that it is difficult for those who listen to them to imagine it. The state from this tribune, from this speaker, said that we would spend more than 2 billion or several billion on the shooting galleries each year and on their construction, they said differently. This is indeed an absurd situation, given - if you are interested, the Ministry of National Defence has reserved - that the cost limit for the construction of such a shooting range is 2 million, so if we wanted to spend 2 billion a year, we would build at least 1 000. Shooting range a year. This is a situation, I understand, completely invented, which arose in the heads of the Members of the opposition. We want to support local governments with the amount of tens of million zlotys a year to finance the construction of shooting galleries, which are necessary both for those who use these shooters and for the military. What's our situation today? After years of your reign, we have 52 shooters for long weapons and 33 shooters for guns in Poland. That's what the Polish army owns today. Outside the army, we have about 200 shooting ranges. The German Sports Shooting Federation alone owns 15,000 in Germany. the kind of shooters that local governments want to build in Poland today, so you really insult those who listen to us, saying these kinds of things. This is a debate where, if you don't have arguments, there are completely frivolous arguments, and this is something that's unacceptable, because really talking about billions at the shooting range in a situation where we're helping local governments and doing this job... The counties build shooters in Poland and want to carry out this task, and we want to finance it, which will be for the benefit of society, and for the army. I would like to say from this speaker: security was and is a priority for the current government majority, for the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki in 2018. [[Applause]] [[And the Poles are healthy?]] Security is something that guarantees us, and now I am quite serious, which gives us the chance to have those years that we do not have so much in Poland, because today we have a 100th anniversary of regaining independence in 2018.... The biggest deficit in the last 100 years was the lack of a sense of security and opportunities for Poland's development. We'd be civilized somewhere else today if it wasn't for World War II if it wasn't for the Soviet occupation. Today we need to build safe Poland, among others. in order to ensure that Poles also have what you were just screaming about - good health. Without safe Poland there will be no development of Poland in any area of life. We managed to lead to the presence of allied troops, to the formation of battalion battle groups, an armored brigade, to the creation of American infrastructure in Poland, to the presence of NATO-Ws infrastructure, to increase the number of troops, which we will increase further, because next year in the Polish army there will be more by another 17 thousand. Territorial Defence Army soldiers and more by another 5,000. professional soldiers. The army is modernised, programmes are being implemented, expenditure on the implementation of programmes related to technical modernisation of the army reaches 99% all expenditure and significantly exceed the 20% which is a statutory obligation, because in this budget, in the budget of 2018, that is 27.5%. That's what we spend on technical modernisation, that's still 6%. more than in the previous year. This is the professional development of soldiers, we provide soldiers with a real increase in salaries. We give them the opportunity to promote their careers, we give them the opportunity to prepare them properly thanks to military schooling, thanks to all the infrastructure that we are just creating, also where you destroyed it most, and you destroyed it for reasons unknown to me, i.e. in Eastern Poland. We will be most intensively rebuilding military infrastructure there today. We will also preach the glory of the Polish weapon. We will do this also in 2018 because we changed the law in the previous year the method of counting 2% expenditure on the army, i.e. expenditure that we will spend in 2018 based on the planning year, not the financial year, which means exactly PLN 3.5 billion more on the security of Poland in 2018. I owe you this to say that the National Defence Committee has tabled an amendment. I think that this amendment, which increases the financial plan of the Armed Forces Modernisation Fund, which will amount to 239 million in 2018, by means of additional measures resulting from the Act, will be adopted. If you remember three numbers, I am pleased that you have managed to convey something despite the resistance with which you accept knowledge of security and national defence. For the first time, we have 2%. GDP in the state budget according to NATO-based methodology, i.e. 10% more for national defence and 6% more for technical modernisation. So there will be an army more numerous and more modern, modernised on the basis of the national defence industry, which will benefit the economy as well. [[Applause]] [[No defense strategy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. [[Too bad there's no defense strategy.]] [[It is, for the first time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u56	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Propaganda of success - this is how the 2018 budget law can be summarised. This budget is a budget for people - these are the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki. The question is, for what people, I think, for your people. That is exactly what the Budget Act says, and we could hear it in the words of my previous speaker, because the Member who devoted his entire speech to talking about how the shooting range is needed, how you want to use money to build shooting galleries in all the counties, forgot to add that from somewhere it is necessary to take the money to build those shooters you dreamed of. [[I just explained that there is 3.5 billion PLN.]] After analyzing the 2018 Budget Act, you can clearly see who has fallen for you and who deserves the distinction. The reduction in the budgets of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman of children's rights by PLN 4.5 million respectively and by PLN 1 million speaks for itself. After all, it is well known that the Ombudsman is enemy number one of the PiS. In your opinion, the Ombudsman is an advocate of pathological circles morally, healthily and sexually, dealing with anti-government activities... [[Bravo! We agree.]] ...critiques the government abroad, boycotts its reforms. [[Applause]] In addition, please bear in mind that we are talking about the Ombudsman whose money you are taking. [[But you're saying...]] [[But she was quoting your Member, you didn't understand.]] In addition, I quote your Member, he is not sensitive to the fate of Poles because he stood up for the courts, and therefore there is no reason to support this institution, since a person in the position of Ombudsman has the audacity to oppose the ruling authority. Those are your words. [[If you say so.]] Undoubtedly, the spokesperson of the rights of the child, who, in turn, captured the child's phone, defending the functioning of the child's phone, who lost the funding of the government to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Instead of spending horrendous amounts on the Prime Minister's firm, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, this is an increase of 31.6%. , and to the President's Office is an increase of 25% in 2018, the Smolensk Commission received 6 million this year, again to receive 6 million this year. Instead of eating money for increased wages, especially in the Pisiewicz staff, for the protection of the Smolensk monthlys, for congresses, for extraordinary amounts - this is already a government of over 85 million PLN - for Tadeusz Rydzyk, these funds could be used in a completely different, much more reasonable way. Entering the new year 2018, it is difficult not to notice two powerful points of inflammation, which are notoriously underestimated by you. These two points are health care and seniors. The health situation is dramatic and you are well aware of it. Why, I have a question, if you are so proud of the excellent condition of the Polish economy, do you save on the health and life of patients? Maybe the budget isn't as perfect as it is, maybe the budget isn't as perfect as Prime Minister Morawiecki proudly puts it, and such wonderful indicators are the result of creative accounting? Otherwise, I cannot understand why an important sector such as health care is still underfunded and you do not want to take advantage of the reasonable proposals that are presented to change this situation. The same is true with pensioners. Their financial situation also leaves much to be desired. According to the latest data of the Social Security Office for the first 3 months of the new law, the average pension of women is 175 PLN lower than that of the government, and the average pension of men is 417 PLN. The difference between the amounts forecasted by the government and actually paid pensions is therefore huge. Ladies and gentlemen! Your sovereign debt policy is unacceptable. You are preying on a very good economic situation throughout Europe without thinking about the consequences of such action. Short-sightedness in the conduct of financial policy is extremely dangerous. You don't think about the groups most in need. The fact that sectors as important as health and seniors are underfunded to such a high degree would suggest balancing the interests and rationalising the budgetary policy of the State, particularly in, I would stress, the favourable economic conditions that are currently taking place. The human budget is another populist slogan of yours based on manipulated data, embezzled merit and good economic condition of Europe. You have the opportunity to open up a vision of a powerful economic country to Poland, and unfortunately you are smothering it through your wastefulness and we all, Poles, will pay dearly for it in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u57	Mr Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club, of course, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will start by saying that the Government of Law and Justice knows how important agriculture is in Poland and how important it is to support this agriculture. After the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, agriculture is finally beginning to take on certain directions, which are very important, which will allow to develop, not only give money, money so far often consumed by administration, by officials, and this money is directed so that they give development and give investment. [[What about ASF? What about ASF?]] That is why these are the main lines of this budget. We have allocated almost PLN 50 billion in this budget for agriculture. Mr. Marshal, High Sejm, this is 545 million more than last year. This is the demonstration that the Government of Law and Justice knows how important an area, how important an economic field in Poland is Polish agriculture. Here I will give some of the directions that this budget sets out. First of all, safety, safety, because we are in the age of ASF virus, but also various infectious diseases, and if we do not take care of the safety of Polish agriculture, if we do not take care of the safety of the Polish farmer, then other directions will do nothing. That is why this budget is primarily aimed at ensuring security. For the first time in history, so far there has been no special reserve, which will protect us: for infectious diseases it will be 20 million PLN, for unforeseen diseases such as ASF - 50 million PLN. This is the first direction, safety. The second direction is investment. [[You should have fought her.]] Madame, you may not know it, but I am a farmer and I know it. [[I know about ASF.]] As far as investments are concerned, we have invested more money from the CAP, more than 6% more. Why? In order to develop Polish agriculture, it is once and then to shorten the way from the field to the table, so that it is not so that the Polish farmer, as you have done so far, was earning an intermediary. We want a Polish farmer to make money, not an intermediary. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] The third direction, which is very important to make it safe to have investments, is education. That is why this government is moving towards taking over, taking back agricultural schools to bet on agriculture in 2018. [[Applause]] Five of these schools have been taken over by the Ministry. And, of course, for all of this to work, there must be a proper administration. Therefore, the Agricultural Property Agency was merged with the Agricultural Market Agency. There was a KOWR - fewer officials, officials who would function well and not only took money for work, of course raising wages. An example is the inspection of plant protection and seed - by 13 million wages were raised, because the idea is that there should be good officials who will serve the Polish farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: I see it blackly, Mr. President.]] [[I told you, but you didn't listen.]] [[100 new bonfires.]] Please, Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to talk a little bit about numbers, mostly about public debt. Since 2016, the public debt exceeds PLN 1 trillion and continues to grow. In 2018 it is expected to reach PLN 1064 billion. The planned growth dynamics in relation to the previous year are 6.1%. The dynamics of government debt growth are higher than GDP growth, i.e. 3.8% even if it were 4%, that's the higher rate of debt growth. As we know, it looks even worse when we move on to the EU methodology, where the debt will amount to PLN 1116 billion, and the ratio will be 54.2% GDP. Moreover, not only conventional obligations, i.e. market calls, such as tax papers, but also conditional ones, are rapidly growing, i.e. guarantees and guarantees given. The latter are planned at almost PLN 160 billion in 2018, i.e. 7.6% GDP. Therefore, if the Union and the foreign market look at our debt and guarantee, they will see that in principle there are 1,300 million PLN. We are increasingly curious about our pension obligations. However, we will not find these statistics in the budget this year, and they will be crucial in the coming years. The budgetary revenue almost evenly in the 2018 budget is distributed between revenue, i.e. mainly taxes, and revenue, i.e. mainly fiscal securities, more than PLN 300 billion on each side, a total of PLN 700 billion. So it turns out that taxes are not the main source of budget supply for a good change, practically total power, I would like to point out. It is also worth noting that the government has significantly expanded the use of internal funds taken from public sector entities. The reduction in the risk of maintaining the liquidity of the budget is already a total of PLN 3 trillion. I don't think there's gonna be any more resources to maintain its constant power supply. At the end of 2018, a deficit of 41.5 billion is planned - a high deficit despite good economic performance. Moreover, if we deduct the costs of the Treasury's debt that need to be borne, we still have a shortage due to the current and not investment needs of the budget, so it is as if we count on investments of local governments and enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points - this budget poetry will be at the end, in the performance of our colleague, Mr Cymanski - which have been misunderstood by our predecessors. Since Mr Neumann of the Civic Platform regretted the rise in inflation, inflation is between 2 and 2.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it is true that if wages are rising if spending is increasing, if investment is increasing, inflation is also increasing. [[Investments don't grow.]] And, of course, the fiscal doesn't usually complain about rising inflation. As you know, the truth is that the rise in inflation is also higher income, among others. VAT, taxes, not just... This is an obvious issue and, of course, these are not levels that pose some threat. Many financial ministers in the world today have a problem with the fact that they have too low inflation or deflation. They have a problem. As far as these private investments are concerned, the problem is that Polish entrepreneurs have about PLN 250 billion in bank accounts, so the money is. But they're right, because today's investment for these entrepreneurs... This is not a fear of a totalitarian system, but - as you call it - the awareness that we will also have to invest in wages, because today a good worker will cost more. And entrepreneurs who sell 100% today their production, they say they could sell twice as much, but they don't have hands to work. And it's gonna be an investment, and that's gonna have to be dealt with. As for these regrets about spending on the President's Office, I would like to say to Mr Neumann that during the days of President Komorowski, the costs of its operation were also comparable to those of the British court, [[Applause]] Only that the British court still has huge subsidies due to land areas, right, and that goes into millions of pounds. We don't. Mr Neumann of the Civic Platform regretted that the CBA budget was too big. I want to upset the Member, say that we will want this budget to be bigger. We believe that these expenses are cost-effective in every way, because it is not only about eliminating this dangerous phenomenon for the economy, but also about the fact that - imagine this - 2100 people who are charged with VAT fraud are responsible for the amount of PLN 14 billion. 2100 people, ladies and gentlemen, and we have a situation where 20-man gangs were able to extort 700 million zlotys. It is therefore worth raising expenditures on the CBI, the Central Bureau of Police Investigation, and the CBA, on the prosecution's office in this area. I wanted to make a brief reference to Mr Parda's speech from Kukiz15. To tell you the truth, I'm very surprised, because it was a sort of speech... worthy of Professor Leszek Balcerowicz, about such a very neoliberal face. There's no country where you can give away money without taxes. It's not so good right now. To be honest, I am surprised at the lack of such an assessment of this social face, in the speech of the representative of the Kukiz group15. Finally, with regard to Mr Petru's speech, Mr Petru said that he regretted the prices of eggs, potatoes, butter and that these articles cost money, etc. I don't think he's gonna convince the farmers. The farmers are happy. What's different is that consumers are right. But I want to tell Mr. Petru that all over the world food, especially good food, is more expensive. Unfortunately, it is expected to be expensive, and if there are such cases as cases of poisoned eggs in Belgium or the Netherlands or cases of slaughter in large countries of their production, such as Brazil, New Zealand, Australia, etc., then meat will also unfortunately be more expensive. I would like to thank Mr Petru, Mr Richard Petru, for this brilliant suggestion that it is enough, right, that the money from truck insurance will be transferred to health and the problem will actually be solved. Indeed, we have not noticed this, and this is worthy of achieving Mr Richard Petru's future plan. I also thank the representatives of the Polish People's Party for their concern, because they will deal with, as Mr Kosiniak-Kamish said, single mothers, pensioners, local governments. They're gonna add 125 million in there, fight smog, and they're gonna fight injustice. Really golden hearts, too bad they haven't tried to do it in eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Poland: 21st place in the ranking of European farms.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the PiS is debating undercover. This time it's not a cover night, it's a cover for an embarrassing show called the government's reconstruction. I'm not surprised because it's such a budget that you should be ashamed of it. This budget is like a bad kid with even worse parents. This is a budget full of hypocrisy and pathology. You say this is a budget for Poles, and you speak almost well. It is only necessary to add that for some Poles. For those Poles from PiS, for Pisiewicz. You raise the minimum wage by PLN 100, only that this increase has long eaten inflation, and it is inflation striking in the poorest ones, because it is inflation in food prices. Food prices are rising at a galloping rate. The prices of butter, fruit, vegetables, eggs, bread are rising, and meat prices have recently started to rise. In my speech, I would like to return to the subject of the policy of PiS in relation to the estate of the State Treasury, the property of all Poles. But the term "all Poles" in your time is only theoretical, because this is the property of PiS and you draw from it. In October, from this point of view, I made accusations concerning a thieving policy in relation to the assets of the Treasury companies. No one answered those charges. No one denied that there was a carousel of positions for Pisiewicz in the companies of the State Treasury. Within a few, several months, Pisewiczów carried out money in the form of salaries, bonuses and severance payments - hundreds of thousands and even millions of zlotys. Let us remind: Wojciech Jasiński, your former minister, in 2016 - 3378 thousand, Mirosław Kochalski - 2671 thousand, Piotr Woźniak - 1798 thousand. etc. In October, there was a new aspect of how this money was delivered. That's what you've done with your knees to lift the upper limit of contributions paid to the Social Security Office. So far it's been two and a half times the national average. Of course, you've made it up to the full propaganda that you'll now take the rich, give to the poor, but this two-and-a-half times is a salary of 10,000. zł. 10,000. So we're talking about taking directors, managers, what Poles know about their bosses. What's the cloud on this case? Let us count, finally, in this budget debate. In 2006 the limit was PLN 121 650 per year. Minister Jasiński was then earning 3378 thousand. annually, i.e. as he went to work, he earned 15 355 PLN one day, i.e. 3.8 of the monthly national average at that time. This means that the average Pole had to work almost four months to earn Jasinski's daily salary. Four months to earn Jasinski's day's work. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] This is an outrage. You lie to Poles, you tell them that the abolition of the limit will hit the well-earned. No. Clou is connected with the fact that Jasiński earns 69 national averages. 69 national averages. After 4 years of writing in Orlena, Minister Jasiński, as already having pension rights, will demand 69 medium pensions... [[That's right.]] ...and get them according to the laws you've introduced. [[Applause]] That's the point: for Minister Jasiński to get a pension of PLN 139 275. That's the truth. Abolishing the limit is not a punishment for well-earned managers, directors in companies that the Poles know. These are huge, horrendous sums for your Pisiewicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. [[Could that be true?]] Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to focus on one section of the 2018 budget, on the health budget. It is important to be fair in assessing these proposals, and it should not be forgotten that this 2018 budget is not an exceptional budget, but is the result of a certain policy continuity that is so called, health-related in recent years. The fact that the Polish health system is underinvested is not a discovery and we know it. As I said earlier in my speech, as soon as I opened my eyes as a baby, I knew there was a health crisis. This hasn't changed, this crisis is going on. The 2018 budget indicates a slight, minimal improvement, because there are more resources, only that, ladies and gentlemen, just increasing the expenditure on health protection, just increasing without a rational economy, that is the way to nowhere. My biggest reservations about this draft budget, in terms of health protection, are a major negligence in prevention, especially in the case of certain diseases that have become social diseases in Poland. I mean depression, and I would really lean really hard on this issue, because in this project the funding of this programme is really low. And in order not to be literal about our actions, Kukiz's actions15, about the fact that we really want to increase our expenditure on health protection without any political conflicts, especially on such a sensitive issue as depression, I will make an amendment on behalf of the club, which is intended to take away, I will say rudely, the means of an organization that is mismanagement, i.e. the Polish Tourist Organization, which has received, it is not known why, an additional 10 million PLN. I want to spend this saved money on behalf of the Kukiz club15 just to finance this project, which is a programme to prevent depression in Poland. I think this is a very important thing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will therefore allow myself to make such an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u68	I will start by thanking Mr Kozłowski for having come before me, as this has prevented me from being tempted to be provoked, because Mr Urbaniak's statement was provocative to me and I was already close because I am only human. But I have a chance to start quietly. [[You have to count.]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a brief closing statement by Members of the Law and Justice to address the issue of infrastructure above all. Very synthetically, I will only say so much and so much that according to our programme under this budget, 100% of the funds are secured for implementation. all prepared, approved, agreed infrastructure projects. It seems like it's no big deal, and yet it's extremely important. Secondly, who knows whether or not it is more important - through transparent tendering procedures, because these are the lessons of history, we are protecting ourselves from accidents, plumbings and various scandals that unfortunately have happened in the past. I will not hang proverbial dogs on predecessors, because these are not easy things, but yet we remember loud stories and harm, and the bankruptcy of many, most often small and medium-sized, companies on the occasion of huge, large infrastructure contracts. Prime Minister Morawiecki in his speech - because I would like to refer to this in my speech, because it is very important that we read this budget, see its schedule, its amounts, its objectives in the context of the exposé, which has recently been expressed here in this Chamber - in addition to these elements which I have said, he has also drawn attention to the need to implement more ambitious intentions. Someone thinks it's science fiction, something fleeting, impossible. But if we approach this in a rational, ambitious way too, it is not said that these high-speed rail programmes - we still have to deal with the ordinary ones, it is also true - whether the central airport is not all very important. And as it has rained many times today, yes, we speak clearly about the development of the whole country, but we also want to focus more on these infrastructure issues, which occur in the areas of neglected Poland, so-called, so as not to offend anyone, Poland B, i.e. Eastern Poland - these channels, Via Carpatia and others, even Szczecin. I'm not going to develop it here anymore. So much for infrastructure. And as for the most important things, and I would like to say this particularly strongly, I am listening with concern to our colleagues from the opposition, who, however - I'm sorry - seem not to be constantly learning from history, from the past. Because what is this discussion about now and a year ago was, and it will be next year? Actually, it's a new symptom of an old disease. This is a great dispute between a view of a state in line with a more liberal, even extreme doctrine - and this example was the statement of a colleague of Urbaniak and others - and yet another view of the matter. The Prime Minister said it straight. A flourishing economy is a prerequisite for a generous social policy, as it is now. That is why we will continue our social programmes, and what is more, we will strengthen and develop them. This is an old Polish saying: be economical so that you can be generous. It's not wasteful. It's not a hand. It's a fairer country. After all, you don't have to be an economist, you can be an ordinary economist, like me, a band player, to understand that there can be also GDP growth, and they can grow averages, and the deficit can be small, and as for the atmosphere in hearts and families, it's poverty and injustice huge. Yes, Siriza, Podemos, we have Kukiz'15. It's just a slight sound of what I want to talk about. That's the point. also redistribution in terms of averages. We heard - 6%, 7%. Whoever has it has it. Even about averages such talk goes in Poland: Where do you have mediums, sir? Why, haven't we heard? And here a colleague with ten leaves us, with the income of Members and Vice-Ministers. If the opposition believes that the middle class is 2%, 350 thousand. People, I have calculations here because I count fast, I worked at the bank that 8,4,000. the annual amount is reduced. Jasinski? Yeah, Jasinski will be the first to pay that money. And that money is needed. I'm looking at your professor. You can talk about health care - we approach it hard, maybe we make mistakes - but really in these matters the problem of money will not be avoided, the problem of housing for young people will not be avoided. There was a lady here, so nice, she was so sorry that there was so little money and that we put out the MdM program. But who's the MdM program for? It's for the young. Yeah, I'm behind them. But those who have a job, a well-paid job, have a credit rating, have tens of thousands of dollars to make their own contributions. Why, no? Isn't it? It was a show. [[That's not true.]] But we're talking, okay, okay, okay. You're about to have a chance to respond. I'm gonna make it. I'm gonna make it. This is a change of vision. And it must be said that Prime Minister Morawiecki in one of the interviews said interestingly. I very much like this comparison with the four riders of the Apocalypse: poverty - unemployment - housing and health care. Interesting set. There's more of these riders. But he gave these four. As for poverty, ladies and gentlemen, it really is such a huge impression. This is not a church or catechetical hall, but an Advent has passed, we are impressed by these wonderful holidays, so it will not be an abuse if I mention the words of Isaiah: "That you will share your bread with the hungry and poor homeless you will receive home when you see a naked man, clothe him, and you will not turn away from your brother (in another translation: cozy, that's also interesting). Then thy light shall rise as the dawn, and thy healing shall be soon: thy righteousness shall go before thee, and the glory of the LORD shall be thy rear guard. Isaiah did not know that this could also mean increasing support in the polls. That's probably not what the prophet was thinking. But what's wrong with the Poles noticing it's a bonus. And the opposition is still at their side. Honestly, I'd rather have 40%. support for PiS with strong opposition than 50% in her absence or weakness. That's what I really want you to do. That's what Krasnodębski said today, our professor, in the morning interview. You really need to change your mind. And from this bleacher, here, the prime minister quoted Thomas Piketty. But he's an outstanding economist. He made such a fuss, such a mishma in the world - the spring of the peoples. He showed that here is the buried dog - der Hund begraben. It's here, isn't it? There's a dog buried here. Please, I appeal. I'm asking you to go this way. It's still time, though not much, less and less. As far as health care is concerned, I'm looking at your professor, whom I highly respect. Greetings, Professor. [[Nice to meet you, too.]] We had great, wonderful... I've been here over 20 years. I've seen a lot of things. [[Welcome to the PiS.]] And I'm gonna talk about a case like this. I wonder what the echo will be and how your professor will address this issue. What did he say from the bleacher? It doesn't satisfy the residents or you. Faster, now 6%. I'm not gonna take care of the past. How many years have you been in and out of trouble? My point, my curiosity - and here I found this echo and I am grateful for it; I did not have the opportunity to personally thank Prime Minister Morawiecki, but I will do it as I only have the opportunity - is what he said. The first important task is health care - if it is not for show, if it is not propaganda, but honest, and let us not take away from anyone the fact that his original declaration is sincere - we really want to break the situation in this, seems to be the most difficult topic, in health care. What did the Prime Minister say? He said yes, but not right away, first of all. We are arguing about the pace of the increase in the amount of this money, about the introduction of this. Cracow was not built immediately. Solomon's not gonna fool an empty one. He also said a very important thing, perhaps the most important thing in my opinion, namely, I quote: but according to the evangelical maxim - this is how it comes back - no new wine is poured into the old bottles, we cannot allow the new money - in guession - to be wrongly spent, to make the system inefficient. Therefore, just as we have sealed the tax system, we intend to carry out such a similar operation with regard to health care. Each zloty invested in health must mean an improvement in quality of life. It will benefit patients, but it will also benefit those who stand by their beds on a daily basis. However, it cannot be - it returns like a mantra - privatisation of profits and nationalisation of losses. Public medical equipment is intended to serve the common interests of patients. And most importantly, clou, conclusion: that's why we're going to put a huge emphasis on the electronicization of health care. It's a curiosity. I fought when it was Francis Cegielska. We've tried to take it by the horns so many times. I'm not saying it's panacea, penicillin for all the diseases. No, but it's very important when it comes to coordination, supervision, especially control. Health care itself is also ill, even doctors know that. Therefore, in this discussion, which is slowly ending, I would like to draw attention - and I do not think this is about us attacking - that the omission and neglect of further teams in this respect I don't think there's any discussion as such. It's gotta be broken. I don't know how he's gonna do it, but it's supposed to be done at night, because it's obviously not gonna make a miracle, because it's not easy. The concepts are different, but this is one of the elements I would like to talk about here. What else is very important? Time is melting in our eyes, we have so little time for such good discussions, because these are such interesting things. [[That's a good speech.]] I would like to say one thing in the area of this terrible war. Well, I would really like to say hello - oh, there is a representative of PSL - Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, who in his discussion, harshly, my sister, but substantively referred to many things. I'd like to thank him for that, because this is a real problem. Yes, it is very painful and sad that we have several hundred thousand people in the country with the lowest incomes. I'm talking about pensioners and pensioners. Because if they don't have children yet, or have children who need help themselves, or the worst of them have children, they don't want to say that they have a mother and they don't know a mother, they're in an extremely difficult situation. We're aware of that. We raise minimum pensions and pensions, but that's not enough. Is such a gesture 500 PLN... We do not underestimate these initiatives, but our proposals... There were questions about the tax-free amount. It may be funny or funny, but it hasn't been touched in years, 3091 zlotys have been around all the time. Now with little steps - yes, I'm talking to Minister Gruza - but we do catch up, we do these things. We're not gonna do this right now. I drive around the country sometimes, meet people. Students talk about raising pensions for their mothers, nodding their heads, but so lightly. But mothers, when we say first: free drugs or a young apartment or helping children, they're ready to give everything away. Love is asymmetrical, it's true. It's the parents, the grandparents love the young more than the other way around. There's something in it. We will also leave as creditors from this world, but this reflection moves us to focus on the young. I think even the older ones in a difficult situation understand that. Maybe it's hard for them to accept it. I'm talking about this because our camp is aware of it, and these are things that we're going to keep in mind too. In such a direction maybe not so much conciliation, but I would like to say that what Minister Kamish said from this bleacher hurts me very, very much too. In fact, in this spirit, if colleagues allow us to remind, in Przyszyszta our leader, whose voice is not so important here, but not so much to overestimated - I am talking about Jarosław Kaczyński - he said on this issue that it is difficult to understand and justify that the person has 1800 PLN and cannot take 500 PLN and those with very high income receive this money. That's what we need to change, and I think we have a certain level of understanding here. Finally, don't listen to Cynian, don't listen to Urbaniak, don't listen to Kukiz. I appeal to everyone who's following this, they're interested in it. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on everyone, no matter who he or she thinks, to be critical. Today the Internet lets you check everything, like me too. Here you go, let's get to the transcript of the discussion about this ensemble, because this is a beautiful example. Next year's budget won't be 5 billion. These 5 billion will remain, perhaps not entirely, in Mr Jasiński's wallets, Misiewicz's and your very wealthy supporters, but there will be no money for medicine, there will be no money for housing. This is clou. If I'm wrong, judge it harshly, but justly. I am surprised with the conviction and passion of the opposition, especially the Platform and the Modern, defending these lost positions, which our prime minister, our president, has been calling scandal for many years. This is a complete misunderstanding. If the elites of the state, IT, presidents, directors and presidents of Orlen, have such a disbelief in the Polish state that they prefer to have 2 000. In my wallet... Simulation at 20,000. income, he has 2,000. more in his wallet because that's what he loses, about 10%, 9 with a piece plus 1.5, and the company needs 3 grand more. I'm gonna pay you back. The situation is, it's better to have 2,000. in a wallet than 5 in ZUS on paper. I understand that, but if that's the belief in this country, I thank you for such elites. No, that's no harm. I want to share this optimism with you at the end of my speech and at the threshold of the new year. Let's argue. Thank you for those speeches that speak harshly. We're different. Hard, hard, my sister, but we don't have to attack so hard this new year. I am not talking about accepting what I said in the opposition, but about understanding and encouragement. And vice versa, talk to us too. Really, the world doesn't have to be so black and white. This sharp division of ours certainly does not serve the state. In the conclusion of this speech, I would like to say something and share this with my colleagues. I'm talking about this because we can really analyze our views. For me, the most important measure of everything is what man does for the weakest. The State is also evaluated as such. The quotations from Isaiah were not because I am so confessive, just because it is the heritage of a great European culture, a Christian culture. According to my favorite writer, Dostoevsky, I would say that there are two wise books and it is worth looking at: the Bible and the calendar. Because we will also pass away and other people will come here someday, but the question is whether you will be fairer and not better indicators. Statistics like a mini skirt: a lot shows, the most important hides. Did I say too much? Maybe not nice. [[It is a matter of understanding, sir.]] Yes, two seconds, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u70	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the old maxim, which I would like to dedicate to Mr Szewczak, as well as to Mr Cymanski: if you miss the truth, at least bow down to it. [[Applause]] I can honestly say that what we hear from your mouth is in no way reflected in the budget that we are discussing today. In fact, the last words are stories from the land of moss and ferns so as not to be more explicit. [[Applause]] I would like to address a few points as the last... Oh, no, not the last one, because I promised two minutes to leave Minister Zembala. Firstly, economic growth, because for a good cause it is the foundation on which we build the well-being of Polish families and Polish citizens. Here, however, it is worth saying that we have stopped being the leader of this growth when it comes to Europe. Between 2008 and 2015, the accumulated GDP growth in Poland amounted to over 24%, in the European Union at that time it was 0.7. We chased Europe very quickly. [[And in 2012 and 2013 how much? 1.5%.]] Unfortunately, today, the pace of this pursuit has slowed down, slowed down. And I made such an account, which should be informative in the context of what I was just talking about: if we kept these relative growth parameters in Poland and Europe from the times of our governments... [[After eight years. We'll count in eight years.]] ...we would have been chasing Europe for 14 to 15 years. With the parameters you're giving us today, it's almost 50 years. We will be chasing average European income for so long. Several times there was a talk about the economic position of Poland. Professor Nykiel quoted several rankings, skipped one to which I would like to refer and recall it, it is the ranking of the World Economic Forum, a very advanced ranking, 12 pillars of competitiveness, which is where the Polish economy is located. We fell in this ranking after many years of climbing from 36th to 39th place. But I would advise you to look deeper into this ranking, especially in the pillar concerning institutions, because it is the PiS country that drags the Polish economy and its competitiveness down. [[How's the Platform?]] Economic policy transparency: 116th place in 137 countries. [[Applause]] Bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs: 112th place in 137 countries. Finally, the effectiveness of the legal framework in key areas relevant to entrepreneurship: 118th place. [[Applause]] We continue to compete on the basis of resources, not innovation or ideas, as we would like it to be. A certain taste is added by Doing business, a ranking in which we fell from 24th to 27th place. There was a joking statement by Prime Minister Morawiecki indicating that we were crawling in place, we did not fall when it came to the price, but others They're ahead of us, Mauritius is ahead of us. [[Because they don't buy winter shoes there.]] I remember when Pietrzak used to talk about how we were racing Albania. The question is whether we're not in front of Albania anymore, but whether we're in front of Mauritius or Mauritius. Sealing the tax system is another thread about which words a few words about. The growing tax revenue, evidently so, is only worth noting that it is increasing mainly due to economic recovery, economic growth, nominally, by the way, also supported by inflation, as Mr Szewczak said, but also changes the structure of GDP, we have consumption as a pillar of this growth, and therefore more tax revenue. [[Right.]] But really, folks, you raise taxes all the time and make up new ones, that's a couple of times today, too. I've estimated this revenue from the extra charges at about 21 billion. Finally, the seal remains, but here I will point out to you that in 2014 the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL adopted a programme to seal the tax system for the years 2014 and 2017. The benefit from the implementation of this programme - by the way, you ended it - which was quite clear from the OSR, that is 17.5 billion PLN. [[Applause]] But if you look at what's going on in the tax area, your measurements, you would find that, in fact, over the last two years, there has been no budget impact of about 160 billion, at least 160 billion. [[Applause]] This is a VAT gap and a CIT gap exceeding 40 billion times 2, in total over 80 billion. It is not as if you give permission for the next year, because in the budget of the state of this growth and this effectiveness, when it comes to fighting the VAT and CIT gap, you can not see. Just don't steal - maybe. Another point I wanted to address is how you treat Polish citizens, that is the greed of this country. You are talking about Polish families, it is worth looking at this maybe through the prism of these Polish families. From each of the zloty produced, the PiS country takes 36 gr and is not enough for it, 3 more gr have to be borrowed and charged to future generations. [[And you did, didn't you?]] You're reaching deeper and deeper into these pockets. 21,000. zł per average mortal and 53 thousand. for the household. Twenty-six hundred thousand. Families benefit from the 500+ programme, and 11 million actually bear its costs. These are tax increases, this is the increase in prices that we have talked about here several times, and inflation, which Mr Szewczak spoke so warmly about, because it really drives tax revenue in the short term, but the increase in interest rates - you have written it down in the budget - is inevitable. You say the interest rate, the reference rate will be consistent with the inflation rate. That means more than 50% increase in the cost of money. How will this translate into credit costs for Polish families, for those who have mortgages? Those who pay $1,000 today. PLN per month, serving their credits, will pay by a few hundred more zlotys. That's actually what you're giving them today. [[Right.]] That's it, 'cause I'm gonna have to leave two minutes to my friend. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marian Zembala.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use my two minutes to thank you for the good that's going on and what's coming out of this House, because let's not assume that anyone has bad intentions. Time makes it impossible for me to comment more widely, but let me speak in the spirit of my mentor Prof. Zbigniew Religion, who noticed the problem and wondered how to introduce a modern method of treating the heart attack that he created in Zabrze, in this tiny place, in a small, adapted hospital and took up this challenge as many other new challenges. I'm gonna talk about medicine on another occasion for the sake of time. The situation isn't as black as we call it, but it's time that... I would like to ask all of you to do this budget, if that is possible... I ask on behalf of hundreds of thousands of miners, steel miners, people who have worked in the heavy, chemical industry in Silesia for 30 years, who are 70 and live 4 and 6 years less, for these people to create what we are creating together, as Prime Minister Morawiecki, but also Prime Minister Szydło, and Minister Kowalczyk, and Mr Sasin - I see you, thank you very much - together they have considered it valuable that, on the basis of the people we have, the centre of civilization, environmental diseases, in this capital of Black Silesia, the centre of all that makes life shorter today. It's what exists in Essen, the Netherlands, Belgium, post-industrial Scandinavia. That's what I'm asking you to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last sentence. Thank you, Minister Janczyk, for introducing excise duties on e-cigarettes. These are the means to serve and save. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. 24 Members joined the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. First Mrs Eve Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this Chamber, the majority of opposition Members sounds like we have an economic disaster, social assistance is failing, and the most important thing is the discussion about the introduction of the euro, which most Poles do not want. I have a question to the members of the government: Is it true that poverty among children has fallen by more than 90% thanks to the 500+ family programme and that local governments spend less on social assistance from other titles and that these funds have more opportunities to raise EU funds for investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a good budget. This is not a good budget for Poland, it is not a good budget for Poles, even because the accents are badly distributed in it. This proverbial element is certainly health care, but there are many, many more. My predecessors were talking about them. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about one issue which, from a budget point of view, budget expenditure may not be relevant in terms of size, but I think it is quite important because of the moment we are in. Well, 2018 is a special year for Poland. We will celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and for this purpose, in my view, relatively little money is written in the budget. These funds are saved in Part 1: the law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland, as well as in Part 83: Purpose reserves. There's an amount of 1800 thousand. zł. That's the amount I believe is far too low. I'd like to ask if in this amount [[♪ The bell ♪]] also saved funds for celebrations related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u78	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen and ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We're at the peak of the economy. Indeed, the budget is gaining more and more revenue, but at the same time we have a large deficit. My biggest problem about what we have is that despite such a large deficit... I would like to ask you when, ladies and gentlemen, you will present a large concept of tax reform. The fact that we have a very complicated tax system, I don't think there's any doubt, and it's hard for us to argue about that here. On the other hand, I believe that the best time for an in-depth tax reform, the Social Insurance Institution, health insurance, is precisely the economic time. And unfortunately, I think this budget shows that we're sleeping through it again. I would therefore like to ask here - this question may be best addressed to Mr Szewczak or to the Minister - when you present, for example, the concept of a large, comprehensive tax reform, [[♪ The bell ♪]] simplifying taxes so that they are also tax-friendly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the gross domestic product in Poland is mainly based on consumption. This is the most important pillar in our economy, while the investments we have already discussed in the basic discussion, unfortunately, are decreasing, are low levels of these investments. I would like to ask about exports, because this is another factor that - at least in previous years - had a huge reference and significance. We grew exports year by year with great dynamics. And I would like to ask how this external trade balance is presented today. According to the information gathered, unfortunately export dynamics are decreasing: 9% in 2016, 7.1 in 2017, plan for 2018 - 6.4. We know that import dynamics are much higher and the difference between imports and exports in three quarters was only PLN 3 billion. What a government [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he going to do that to change these export trends? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amount allocated to science is increasing. The Prime Minister's exposé emphasized the value of development through innovation. This development will not take place if we do not take care of the proper remuneration of the scientific staff. In order to prevent the outflow of young researchers, their salaries must not be frozen, but the prospect of development and a better financial situation should be given. My question is: Will the increase in the amounts allocated to higher education and science budget law provide the opportunity to increase the salaries of researchers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u83	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. [[Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.]] Excuse me, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u84	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2018 draft Polish budget assumes further increase in consumption rather than investment. It's a shame, because entrepreneurs are running away, although they were supposed to stay because of the growing costs of their employer. Prime Minister Morawiecki promised a 25% share of investment in GDP And unfortunately, it's only 17%. Entrepreneurs are afraid to invest in such uncertain time. Propaganda of success and big social expenses like the Edward Gierek era. Then it ended in bankruptcy. Now the finale can also be sad when, in about four years' time, a hoss will end in European markets, which translates into our current economic growth. Instead of saving money now that we have growth, we give everything away, and for health care, for financial support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This important area is still short of money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u85	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u86	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member representing the Podlaskie Voivodship in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I would like to ask if the money for the construction of the S19 route will finally be saved in this budget. This is a very important transport corridor for Eastern Poland. Will it finally be possible to announce tenders in Podlaskie voivodship, but also in Lubelskie, Podkarpackie voivodships, and finally build the S19 route? My next question: Will there be money in the budget for the S8 route from Bialystok to Augustów? I ask because this road is called the road of death, and so far the Ministry of Infrastructure has not taken any action to finally start designing or later building this road. Therefore, I have a question as to whether these two roads will finally be built in Podlaskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I raise a question, I would like to convey information and concerns about the meeting of local government officials of the Lublin Voivodeship yesterday in Biłgoraj. The local government took note of the reduction in expenditure on the implementation of the "Programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure" for 2018. According to Resolution 159 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 the amount of 82 900 thousand was allocated to the Lublin Voivodeship. zł. What a surprise and surprise it was when December 28, Ub. A list of applications was published for a total amount of just over PLN 60 million. This is more than 12 million less, it is a dozen local governments eliminated and just a huge disappointment and bitterness and a concrete loss - the cost incurred for the development of comprehensive applications, complete documentation. Therefore, the question, Minister. The Polish People's Party Club, as the author of this programme, has tabled an amendment to the budget through the person of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska [[♪ The bell ♪]] increasing the budget of this programme by PLN 400 million. Will the government and the Minister support this proposal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say, Prime Minister! First you gave great hope, in the light of the cameras, the current Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and Members of Law and Justice promised 10,000. Evil for all orphans and widows of miners. Now there's a great disappointment. Turns out the whole truth of PiS's promises came out. The orphans and the widows of the miners who didn't live to retirement and pensions won't get $10,000. compensation for lost deputies, although after their death the deputies received. You promised. You tricked orphans and miners' widows. Prime Minister, will you secure funds in the 2018 budget to compensate these people, orphans and miners' widows? The Civic Platform won't leave them. It'll make you an amendment to this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that you can safely hand these funds over to widows and orphans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! My question concerns the amount of funds, mainly from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, for social rehabilitation. Of course, I am aware that it is the local authorities who decide on the distribution of these funds, but the amount itself is insufficient. My question is: Why has the government been reducing social rehabilitation spending for another year? It's a very dangerous trend. Is it moral to close the access to orthopaedic and auxiliary means in communication, avoiding the elimination of architectural barriers, leading to the social exclusion of these people in a short time? Why doesn't the government increase the grant for these tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform. There isn't any either. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the Members of the Law and Justice Group today stated that it was the Civic Platform that prevented good governance of your government last year. I was wondering if you thought, for example. with a catastrophic decline in investment. Because if he did, I don't think he noticed that it was you who created a reality in which there is constant uncertainty of tomorrow. Your next changes in taxes, or rather their raising or introducing new taxes, further drafts of laws written on your knee and processed in a hurry, without expertise, without the opinions of those concerned - among others. These actions have caused or even frightened entrepreneurs and increased their caution in terms of increasing investment. But the Member has found another culprit for this investment collapse. According to him, these are the self-governments he mocked and insulted, indicating that they consciously block local investment. And of course he did not hesitate to criticize the way they spent their money on, as he said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] No one needs investment. Well, Mr President, if we wanted to exchange cases of reckless spending by the PiS, we would have to spend a good few days in this room without a moment of rest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u95	Thank you very much. And I am very sorry, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform, because I left you out. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of 16 Members, I would like to make amendments to our 2018 budget. In Part 77: Taxes and other contributions to the State budget increase by 200 million for the creation of a new item in Part 83: reserves, for the financing of bioinsurance of pig farmers in Wielkopolska and not only in relation to ASF. In part 77 also by 200 million to increase the reserve, to create a reserve, to create a new task, to modernise melioration equipment. Also an increase of 500 million, the creation of a new position, to finance the construction of tanks and plates for farmers. We need to increase these buildings by 50%. We can't afford it. And one last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from a completely different barrel. What is the government going to do to increase the number of doctors per patient? Should I build new buildings? Is this about organization or other activities? I'd like an answer to what the government is going to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u98	...for more doctors to fall on the patient. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u100	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! They promised, they cheated. With such words about the Government of Law and Justice, I am approached by widows and orphans from the dead miners who are denied compensation for the lost coal debt. I have a question for the Minister and Prime Minister Morawiecki: Will the government secure in the 2018 budget and include funds to pay their compensation for this? Appropriate amendments to the Act with colleagues from the Platform will be tabled. And second question. During his last visit to Silesia, Prime Minister Morawiecki emphasized the importance of the land, the Silesian Voivodeship and the inhabitants of this voivodship. Will the Government of Law and Justice take into account my amendment to the 2018 budget in order to finance the construction of a road-dimension route that will communicate, among others. Jaworzno town, Sosnowiec with Silesian agglomeration? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Congratulations to Minister Czerwinska. It's not easy for you to have bread. But I have questions for you and other ministers in this room - from now on. In 2017, you were released, among others. for prizes above PLN 200 million, including for awards at the MMA - 100 million, in education - 60 million, in higher education - 3.5 million. On average, the amount of the prize for the Deputy Minister is about 50,000. zł, a lack of money, among others. for health care. Is that how it works? I wanted to ask the Minister when the helicopter program would be included in national defence expenses, because it doesn't exist and it takes a long time. The promises were already in October 2016 and the purchases were to start. One last thing. The Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education is sitting in this room. There's talk of a lot of spending, [[♪ The bell ♪]] PLN 16.5 billion, for science and higher education, and there is no clinical hospital in Rzeszów, for the medical department. There's an amendment. Minister, please convince your colleagues from the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u104	...for her to gain support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice persuaded the public, persuaded Poles about the need to increase national defence spending with 2% GDP, NATO-Ws index, up to 2.5% GDP. However, in the 2018 budget, other tasks are financed from national defence funds. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot lie to and mislead the public. Either Poland is in need from the point of view of defence expenditure, or it is not. You can't convince the public to increase this effort and then finance it instead of buying planes for the army to build shooters and roads. As far as roads are concerned, the government of the Platform was able to build, implement the biggest investment processes on the roads and at the same time modernise the Polish Armed Forces. You want to build roads out of military money. Why aren't you doing the road show? I'd like to ask you about the ring road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kałuszyn on the A2 motorway. Why don't you want to unblock this town, let people live their lives? Why aren't you building the A2 motorway east? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u107	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2018 total budget claims are to fall again in relation to 2016 - not VAT claims, which will for the first time exceed PLN 100 billion. These charges are rising despite the ongoing fight against the restructuring of the tax administration. It must also be remembered that the government has decided to cancel the loans granted to the FUS. But did these loans disappear? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u110	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, it should be noted that this is a debate with the Vice-Ministers. There's no... [[There's the minister!]] [[Voices from the O.R.: There he is!]] Apart from the Minister, there is no constitutional minister who can answer our questions. In my case, they concern two important issues. First, on 21 October, another anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling on the non-compliance with the Constitution with the provision of the Family Benefits Act was passed in so far as it differentiates the right to provide care for persons taking care of a disabled person. Are there any measures in the state budget for 2018 to comply with this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? The second issue is the question of people with Alzheimer's disease. We have been calling for a long time for a national Alzheimer's programme. Are the appropriations foreseen for this purpose in this budget? Such an amendment has been tabled. It has not received support from the Public Finance Commission. This is the last moment to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The new Minister of Health woke up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What is characteristic of this budget is some huge increase in spending on the needs of the government camp itself. The fastest two-digit increases show spending on the President's Office, the Prime Minister's Office, the Sejm, the Senate. We have a huge increase in IPN spending. And let me remind you that last year we granted PLN 75 million for the new Institute of Solidarity and Fortitude, which is just being created. He's not here yet, he's just about to be raised, and he's supposed to have the expenses. In addition, there are various expenditures on public television, various hidden subsidies for the director's father, and finally MON's expenditure on the shooting range - instead of spending, for example. to protect health. On the other hand, spending on the Polish Academy of Sciences is frozen, which will receive five times less funding from grants from the budget than IPN. These are some improbable disparities, if you are talking about the development of science, about technical progress, about some leap to the next stage of Poland's development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the case of an ombudsman who is so burdened with various tasks, there is also the freezing of expenditure. I believe that these proportions do not serve the citizens, but rather the camp of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention, Minister, in particular, to the issue of securing financial resources in the 2018 budget for the implementation and continuation of the major transport project, Rail Baltica. Let me remind you that this is a very important transport hub, which is intended to ensure the connection of Berlin - Helsinki. We find out that for the government ministers of PiS the Podlaskie voivodship does not matter. Such information came from the conference for the Polish daily. They also say that Rail Baltica is a mistake, and if there were no European funds, this investment would not have been implemented. I would like to stress that for the inhabitants of the Podlasie region it is an extremely important investment, and especially in the section Ełk - Suwałki - border crossing with Lithuania, because especially this region is cut off from any rapid connections [[♪ The bell ♪]] transport, and in particular the railways. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I congratulate Prof. Czerwinski on her new, important, responsible role in the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki. And my question concerns a very important legal act, namely the Tax Order. As we know, the draft of this act has already been developed by the team under the direction of Professor Leonard Etel, but it was developed some time ago. My question is about the evaluation of this project. As the Minister, the Ministry evaluates this [[♪ The bell ♪]] the project and what its fate will be, i.e. what actions will be taken in the near future and when can it be expected to be submitted to the High House? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u117	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister, congratulations. It's gonna be hard because you started by being alone in the battle square. All the ministers have left you. I remember Margaret Thatcher. She had this habit of visiting small shops like her father's shop to talk about, because what's happening there is a real picture of the economy. In simple numbers, you can see what's happening in the economy. In this budget there are 7 billion PLN reserved for direct subsidies for coal mining. That's almost 80,000. zł one-time miner. And, of course, miners in Łęczna, in Bogdanka, are mining coal with profit. So we add huge money to every job, and the Poles don't get paid for free. They pay very high prices for coal. They pay high prices, and what do they get in return? [[♪ The bell ♪]] All Poles pay for mining and have huge smog, and in this budget there is no gold for fighting smog or gold. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Now we move on to the answers. You will be the first to respond to Minister Paweł Gruz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u120	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to address a few general comments and questions about the tax system and plans for this year. A precise reform agenda is being prepared in this area. He will be implemented in the first half of the year after the Minister's observations have been made and approved. We're working very hard. I would like to say that we have completed the first work on the repair of the public finances system on the income side. I think we can enjoy the results in sealing the tax system. We can enjoy regaining the steering power of this system, because only in such a steering system can we have a rational policy regarding the introduction of facilitations, reliefs. I would like to remind you that many changes have been made to taxes in previous terms. Unfortunately, they have systematically led to a deterioration of budgetary revenues in relation to GDP. Both VAT and CIT have clarified the system. Instead of sealing it, rates were raised as was the case with the VAT rate. We are now on the agenda to carry out these sealing activities and we are just starting intensive work on simplification. We are fully aware that the laws are complicated, that there is often too much legislation, that there is a superregulation that can be cleared without damaging the policy of the state or taxpayers. And that's what we're going to do in the first half of the year. As I say, the plan is ready and requires the approval of the new Minister. With regard to the thread of emerging VAT debts or rising outstanding VAT claims, I would like to say that yes, we are fighting the VAT mafia, there are identified arrears. Finally, these cases come to light, and they are also Quantified. And unfortunately, that money went abroad. Therefore, the state of debt, so to speak, and the identified VAT debts are increasing. It's best not to control and then there are no VAT debts. Unfortunately, this was happening and the statistics were great, because it's better to beat the thermometer than to take care of the disease. We are introducing systemic changes that will prevent extortion of VAT resources abroad. And here, in this courtroom, these laws were recently voted on. They're being implemented. They enter into force on the 13th of January. As for the question of ordination, this is not a budgetary question, but I will try to answer it. After an analysis of the project, we considered that it required some adjustments at the level of assumptions. These assumptions will soon be presented in order to better shape these relations by an official - a taxpayer or a state - a citizen and help our economy with a more efficient tax system. Thank you, High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u121	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of answering three questions. The first question was Mrs. Eve Szymanska. She asked if it was true that, thanks to the 500+ programme, poverty fell by more than 90% and that local government spending on social assistance was reduced. In fact, we can say that poverty has clearly fallen. In 2016, it was 4.9%. , year before - 6.52%. Indeed, children's extreme poverty is about 90% smaller. What was a shame for Poland was almost completely eliminated. With regard to social assistance expenditure, we also see a clear decline. At the moment, we do not have final data for 2018 yet, but there are fewer in all positions when it comes to feeding children, family benefits, periodic or targeted benefits. I have even prepared the data for the Member. In 2016 the number of people receiving social assistance fell by around 10% compared to 2015. , and as far as periodic allowances are concerned, 12%. As far as 500+ is concerned, the drop in the number of families receiving social assistance was around 12%. So we see it clearly, as I say. In 2018, these numbers will be even clearer, but we still need to show these. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked about the decrease in social rehabilitation expenditure in PFRON. There is no decrease in expenditure in PFRON, there is an increase in expenditure in PFRON. The draft law for 2018 provides for expenditure of 5 021 248 thousand, i.e. 140 million more than in 2017. We have more expenses in all our positions. As regards the increase in funding for salaries, there is an increase of 150 million, i.e. up to PLN 3150 million. In terms of socio-occupational rehabilitation, local governments also receive more resources. The budget plan allocates 17 million more to the counties, i.e. up to 780 million this year. This is also an increase. The amount for tasks commissioned for NGOs increased from PLN 190 million in 2017 to PLN 247 million in 2018. As regards the specific figures, in 2015 local governments received funds from PFRON amounting to 914 million, in 2016-920, in 2017-930, in 2018-947 million. So the argument that every year we reduce the funds transferred to local governments for social rehabilitation is certainly inappropriate. Mr Szczerba asked for the funds to be secured for the implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment on the financing of care services, depending on the degree of disability, to compensate for these benefits. This judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, of course, is being examined. There are two teams working right now. One team is a diagnosis team for the situation of people with disabilities. The result of this team's work is to recommend to the Prime Minister how to improve the situation of carers of people with disabilities. There is also an inter-ministerial review and drafting team on case law. There, too, work is to be completed in March and recommendations to the government will be prepared. This trial team is very important because we are not able to determine how many disabled or independent people need the care of other people, carers. As former chair of the Senior Committee, Mr Szczerba knows best that the number of older people, over 100 years of age, over 90 years of age, over 80 years of age, who require help and are independent, is growing, so in fact the caselaw here is crucial to actually refer to disability as well as independence, because we have a lot of older people who also need care. I'm sure the subject isn't on the shelf, we're working on it, we're analyzing it. We also have the first fittings for legal solutions, but here, as I say, it is crucial that we can determine which persons need carers, how many carers they need, and how many carers should receive a benefit that would give them support when they give up their work and take care of the person in need of support. Just a little more patience. I hope that in March we will be able to show the results of the teams that deal with case law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please answer the question now, Mr Aleksander Bobko, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the part of the budget that remains under the management of the Ministry, there was one question directly and indirectly. Mrs Tomaszewska asked about the prospect of wage increases in higher education. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft budget at the beginning of the year, there is no direct budget for wage increases, but it is increased by 2.3%. The basic grant, which will be addressed to universities, so universities conduct their own wage policy and this increased grant gives the chance for rectors, senates to shape wage policy and raise. On the other hand, the second element indirectly linked to the increase in academic salaries is the approximately 700 million increase in funding for science, which are also addressed in the form of grants to the academic community. A large part, not all of it, but a large part of it also translates into wages for workers. Mrs Skowrońska addressed the second question here indirectly to our department, namely this question about the funds for the clinical hospital or the financing of the clinical hospital in Rzeszów. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the University of Rzeszowski is conducting medical studies on the basis of agreements with voivodship hospitals, as well as with three smaller hospitals, so it does not occur here that, so to speak, the possibility of direct funding of a clinical hospital by the Ministry of Science. However, there is, of course, an investment topic concerning the possible expansion of a hospital or the construction of a clinical hospital in Rzeszów, but this is a subject that needs to be prepared by the local community and then we will try to support this project from the central resources of the reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u125	Thank you very much. Now please, Minister Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance... Thank you very much. Then please, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Health, Minister Katarzyna Głowala. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u126	Dear Marshal! Dear Izbo! In answer to Mr Ajchler's question from the Civic Platform, what the government intends to do in terms of increasing the number of doctors, I would remind you that since the beginning of the term, when the Government of Law and Justice took over governments, when amending the 2016 budget, we have secured additional funds to increase the admission limit for medical studies, and that is what we do every year, i.e. with the next recruitment for medical studies, we increase admission limits by around 20%. In total, for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 admission limits for medical studies have already been increased by around 1300 people. Since that year, additional appropriations have also been secured in the 2018 budget over what is working to increase the admission limit for nursing studies by 521 seats. As regards Mr Mroczek's question about the supplementary MON expenditure, I would like to point out that the draft budget for 2018 secures new funds for the new multiannual programme for the purchase of aircraft and pilot training for the Air Emergency Service, there will be an agreement between the Minister of Health and the Minister of National Defence to rent these pilots as well as equipment for the time called. W. This has been carefully analysed by the Minister of National Defence, this is part of NATO methodology. Therefore, this is not any allocation of MON spending under national defence measures for other unnecessary expenditure. On the other hand, as regards the increase in health expenditure, because there was also a conclusion here, I would like to point out that in the health-related expenditure alone increased: in 2017 it was 9496 million, while in 2018 it was 10 214 million, and we are consistently striving, as in the Act of 24 October 2017 on public-funded healthcare, to increase health expenditure to 6%. GDP in 2025 Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Alzheimer's?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u127	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: I'm sorry. As far as Alzheimer's is concerned, in the Ministry of Health, we are analysing and wishing to resolve this problem systematically, and the analysis is still ongoing. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Thank you very much. Please, now Minister of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Usually the Minister for Budget Affairs, the Minister of Finance, takes the floor as the last one, so he answers the other questions and gives explanations. Exceptionally this year, I would like to take the floor at this point, because there are still some questions that will, of course, be answered, to all the remaining ones in writing, and since I will have to leave the sitting a little earlier today, I asked for at least part of the explanation and at least part of the answer to your questions. I would like to address two points in principle. The issue that was being raised was about defence programmes, that is, national defence expenditure, and there was a question about helicopter programmes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the first question about defence expenditure in general is, of course, the commitment of the Republic to spend 2% gross domestic product per defence area. Of course, we keep that commitment. I would like to assure you that these expenses, which we classify as defence expenditure, are the name of the programme on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as the reserve which was created next year, amounting to 39 600 thousand. zł, with the aim of modernising the Aircraft Transport Team in the Aviation Emergency Service in Warsaw, ladies and gentlemen, these are all expenses that meet, once again I stress, the criteria for defence expenditure, not only in the classification that we carry out for our needs, i.e. budget classification, but also - and perhaps above all - this is NATO classification. Thus, in this respect, This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Please also bear in mind that the funds allocated to the Air Emergency Service or upgrades, communications, transport equipment, personal equipment, security officers, etc., equipment that is used in times of peace... This is equipment which is used by officers as necessary and also applies defence. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the technical modernisation plan is concerned, between 2018 and 2020 we have a total secured PLN 7.2 billion for the helicopter programme. And here the procedure is underway as regards helicopters in the combat search and rescue version, 8 units for Special Forces sub-groups, while for helicopters to combat submarines, public procurement conditions are developed taking into account the results of the negotiations and a call for final offers is developed. Therefore, these proceedings are ongoing and, as regards helicopter programmes, both of them are ongoing. There is one more question as regards the questions concerning the contributors in the article. The 139th Public Finance Act, namely those dispatchers who are sending a draft budget to the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance includes all the material submitted in the draft Budget Act. I mean the President's Office, Senate Office, Sejm Chancellery etc. I would like to remind you, to be precise, that these entities during the work on the budget law, some themselves, such as. The law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland has reduced the limit of its own expenses, i.e. 10 million, the Senate law firm - a reduction of 2.5 million PLN, the Institute of National Remembrance, if I have noted correctly, its name has fallen here, is over 33 million PLN reduction. So that I would like to assure the High House that there were budgets on which the committee was working, on which we worked in the Committee on Public Finance, where there were increases, but there were also budgets where there were significant reductions, including those in the article. 139, which were initially reported in the course of the procedure of the budget law, reduced at the next stage. That's what I'd like to remind you to be precise. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the remaining questions that have been raised by the Ministry of Finance or ministers who are not present today - the High House certainly knows that a reconstruction of the government has taken place, new ministers have been appointed and the remaining questions will therefore be explained in writing. For my part, I thank you for the congratulations of the coalition Members and of the opposition. I would like to say that I have a great deal of academic experience, I am a very open person, and therefore I would like this cooperation that I had the opportunity to establish with you - both with coalition Members and with the opposition - in the Committee on Public Finance to be very fruitful. We're gonna argue, we're gonna work on the budget. I know that these are not easy issues, I agree, but, as I said, I am open to arguments, to proposals, also to criticism, which Mr Cymanski has said so beautifully today - we do not have to agree, we can argue. I wish you and I would like this discussion to be substantive and wherever I can help you, wherever you make your proposals, I am open to discussion and thank you very much for your cooperation within the Committee on Public Finance and here in the plenary room. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. The last question will be answered by Minister Justyna Wing, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased, on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure, to answer questions about road investments, mainly regarding the financing of these investments in the budgetary part - under the authority of the Minister of Finance. As regards the implementation of the S19, the question was whether the funds for the construction of the entire route were guaranteed. I would like to assure the High House that the Ministry of Infrastructure already secured funds for the preparation and construction of the entire route in 2017. I would like to remind you that the road and motorway construction programme with commitments not exceeding PLN 200 billion is a programme that in real terms was worth 107 billion. Thanks to the efforts and involvement of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government, the amount in this programme has been increased to 135 billion and among others. With this allocation it will also be possible to implement sections of S19 and S8 roads. This will be the completion of the entire S19 route from the border with Belarus in Kuźnica Białostocka. Part of the route has already been made available to drivers. The works are advanced: either we are at the construction stage, or on specific sections the tenders have been launched. With regard to the implementation of the S8 route Białystok - Augustów, it is not true that the Ministry did not take any action in this regard. National road No 8 from Białystok to Augustów - the Minister of Infrastructure has already signed an investment programme for this task. Preparatory work is currently underway. It is also worth mentioning that in 2017 the S8 train from Warsaw to Białystok was made available to drivers. As regards the Kałuszyn ring road on the A2 motorway on the section of the Mińsk Mazowiecki-Siedlce ring road, a contract was signed for the programming concept, a feasibility study, after which a tender can be issued for the implementation. Expenditure for this task has also been included in the national road construction programme. The route Jaworzno - Sosnowiec, I remind you, is a local government task, a task prepared by city presidents, a continuation of the built midway route. Here we have a problem with environmental decision, this fact is well known to you. With regard to the increase in funding of the Municipal and District Road Infrastructure Development Programme for 2016-2019, of course the government supports any realistic proposals to increase the spending of road infrastructure. I would also like to assure you that there is work to be done to identify a new source of funding in terms of expenditure related to the construction of local roads. It's too early to talk about the details. We will keep this work up to date with the High House. Now Rail Baltica. The Sadowne - Czyżew - Białystok route project is implemented under the EU Connecting Europe Facility, i.e. the Connecting Europe Facility, a task worth PLN 2.7 billion in total. The expenditure planned for implementation in 2018 amounts to over PLN 400 million. This is a successful third competition and we predict that the implementation of the entire Rail Baltica as a railway section and Via Baltica as a road section will end by 2023. These are also two priority projects for our Baltic partners, and projects that are very much interested in the European Commission, projects where we work practically on an ongoing basis with our partners from Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Transport working groups are devoted to the timely exchange of information on the implementation of these difficult investments in road and rail sections in Natura 2000, which the High House has probably been informed about. That's it. Of course, we are ready at any time to supplement the information provided with additional details as you are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u131	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels (print No. 2147). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr. Michał Kurtyka to present the justification for the project. Since the Minister isn't here yet, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 52 hours 15 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels (print No. 2147). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr. Michał Kurtyka to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels, 2147 Seym printing. The aim of the project is to stimulate and support the development of electromobility and the use of other alternative fuels in the transport sector in Poland. Electricity-based transport is a new, fast-growing trend, which includes more and more countries, and the electromobility market alone allows to create completely new solutions and new business models. The integration of Poland into changes taking place at global level will allow optimal use of them for both the economic development of the country and for improving the quality of the environment in Poland, in particular in urban agglomerations and densely populated areas, where the negative impact of transport on air quality is most felt. We could have done that, for example. today feel in a city like Warsaw. Polish agglomerations are too often mentioned as negative examples, and the electromobility Act is one of the instruments of government intervention in this area. I hope that the bill will be an incentive to build charging infrastructure for electric vehicles and, consequently, to change the structure of fuels used in transport towards alternative fuels with significantly lower emissions. If you would allow me to develop the above, I would like to highlight three significant advantages of the development of electromobility and alternative fuels. Firstly, it is a significant civilization and technological revolution. Business and technological solutions related to electromobility will benefit both the Polish energy sector, the development of the transport sector as well as the industrial sector, in particular the automotive sector, telecommunications and ICT companies. I think it is not necessary to repeat that Poles have very large achievements in these areas, and we want, by becoming part of the most innovative trend of technological change at this moment in the telecommunications sector, to take advantage of this potential and to give the most entrepreneurial and creative Poles a chance. Well, so that they can exist in this trend. We believe that as a result of this law, there will be an increase in enterprise innovation and the development of research into new technologies. Already today in the field of electromobility we can boast of many Polish brands known and valued in Europe and the world. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that Poland has small oil reserves and is therefore dependent on its imports. The choice of electricity as fuel in transport is a strategic choice that improves our energy security. If today Poland imports around 97% oil, that means that annually it is transferred from Poland abroad between 0.2 and 0.4% Polish GDP. As far as import volumes are concerned, between 3, 4, 5 and even 9% Polish imports were just purchases of oil. These are not only significant values in absolute terms, but also their variability is important, in this sense the entry into electromobility allows us to significantly reduce this volatility. If we are talking about absolute values, these are expenditures of USD 10 and 20 billion per year, and in terms of volatility, this is a risk associated with changes in energy and oil prices, which Poland has no impact on. By developing the electromobility market, we will reduce our dependence on oil imports and strengthen energy security. Thirdly, finally, and this is something that I have already mentioned before, the bill could significantly improve the air quality in cities. Transport is a significant source of nitrogen oxides, PM10 dust and PM2.5 dust and benzopyrene emissions. It also contributes to CO2 emissions. In Poland, the situation is particularly critical - in terms of PM10, PM2.5 and benzopyrene pollution. In large agglomerations there is also a problem of air pollution with ozone and nitrogen oxides. The development of electric transport is one of the many activities undertaken in this area. It is precisely because we can take such actions, which result from the Act on Electromobility, the prospect of improving air quality in such a city, e.g. like Warsaw, where 63% of pollution comes from transport, will become - I believe - a real perspective. It should also be added that the proposed law transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/94 of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructure into the Polish legal order. The project has been the subject of a very intensive consultation, intensive dialogue, both with business and local partners, as a result of which over 100 institutions have been directly involved in the dialogue and consultation of this law over the last year. We received about a thousand pages of comments. It was a really intense consultation process, which included not only the exchange of correspondence, but also dozens of workshops, seminars and meetings. As a result of this process - I can say - the ambition of electromobility becomes the ambition that unites us all, because the challenges we face are the same. High Izbo! The proposed law is based on two main assumptions: firstly, the use, as far as possible, of market mechanisms in the infrastructure segment, secondly, a comprehensive approach to the development of the alternative fuel segment by building incentives for the exchange of low- and zero-carbon car fleets. In particular, the draft law lays down the principles for the construction of a core infrastructure network for alternative fuels to be established in an initial phase in urban agglomerations, in densely populated areas and along the roads belonging to the trans-European transport corridors. The bill in this context focuses on electric vehicle charging stations and natural gas stations. In our opinion, these types of alternative fuels require regulation at the level of the law in the current technological development, but at the same time such an approach allows optimal use of the conditions of the Polish market and energy policy. The expansion of the core network will allow the free movement of alternative fuels-based vehicles. The core network will create 6400 charging points for electricity and 70 CNG natural gas stations. The proposed law introduces into the Polish legal order the basic concepts necessary for the development of the market and infrastructure of alternative fuels, because one of the barriers that were identified during the preliminary work on the project was the lack of normative definitions. This legal gap has often caused problems in obtaining appropriate approvals and permits. The introduction of an appropriate conceptual spectrum and its sequencing facilitates many investments and activities in alternative fuels. A key element of this part of the project is the definition of the path of development and construction of public charging stations for electric vehicles and filling points for natural gas. As a result of our project, the infrastructure for charging electric vehicles in the first period, from 2018 to 2020, is to be developed on the basis of market principles. However, it should be stressed that stakeholders will be able to apply for public funding. Moreover, the draft law proposes significant facilitations for entities investing in infrastructure development, among others. no building permit, free parking at charging stations by the municipality. Municipalities, which are large urban agglomerations, will be obliged to monitor the development of infrastructure and actively engage in infrastructure development planning. Where the results of the monitoring indicate that the development of infrastructure is not sufficiently dynamic, i.e. the number of public charging points in a given municipality will not correspond to the minimum number laid down in the proposed law, the authorities of such municipality will be required to prepare an infrastructure development plan. Then the operator of the electricity distribution network will be responsible for the construction of charging points. The arrangement of the development process of these public charging stations in the proposed way will allow private or public entities to deploy charging stations in locations suitable for their investment plans without an administrative order. On the other hand, with regard to the development of natural gas infrastructure, a network of core natural gas charging station infrastructure is planned. This network will be limited to municipalities fulfilling the specific conditions set out in the Act. However, the designer's approach is prescriptive and administrative in nature because of the nature of the natural gas market used in transport. Even a small number of vehicles powered by this fuel cause less interest of investors in building adequate infrastructure. On the other hand, the provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU have made it clear that for the development of the alternative fuel market it is necessary to deploy infrastructure, including, in the case of Poland, infrastructure for natural gas. The project also lays down the rules for the operation of the above mentioned. the infrastructure and indicate the bodies responsible for the construction and management of charging stations and natural gas stations. This should enable the establishment of a core infrastructure network for these fuels and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by the designer. The project defines rules on how to inform consumers about alternative fuels, how to label distributors and vehicles and how to create and operate Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Records. The draft law will also allow municipalities to introduce clean transport zones. However, it should be noted that the decision to introduce zones and their functioning will remain the responsibility of local authorities. This will allow zones to be adapted to local circumstances, while at the same time respecting the autonomy of municipalities and local communities. The bill provides for a number of benefits for drivers of electric vehicles, among others. exemption from excise duty on the purchase of electric vehicles and hydrogen-powered vehicles, a more favourable depreciation rate for electric vehicles, the possibility of moving electric vehicles on road lanes for buses. These incentives will support the purchase and use of electric vehicles. Finally, it is worth noting that this project is an invitation for entrepreneurs and innovative ones. We have included a number of very interesting solutions concerning, among others. the ability to experiment when it comes to monorail, magnetic transport. We have also included solutions for testing autonomous vehicles. For the first time in Polish legislation there will be provisions for testing autonomous vehicles. We all know that if we think about what the city will look like in 10, 20, 30 years from now, we will have to consider the existence of innovative transport solutions that technology already makes possible today, but the regulation does not keep up with it yet. If Poland does not implement such regulations, which will entail entrepreneurship, creativity, innovation, we will not be able to stand in the way of the best in the world, we will not be able to co-form civilization trends, and we will only be the recipient of these trends. The proposals contained in this Act are intended to allow the development of the alternative fuels market, in particular those specified in the title of that Act on electromobility. Participation in this technological revolution related to electromobility, with the development of electric vehicles, will allow Poland to create new industries, technologically advanced jobs, to achieve economic growth. At the same time, we will ensure energy security and clean air in cities. The whole world is already moving towards electromobility and I am convinced that Poland must also choose this direction. The project presented is an important, fundamental step in this direction. From the perspective of the Minister of Energy, I would like to add that this is the third constitutional act creating a new market. After the Energy Law was introduced in 1997 and the renewable energy law defined a new market, now the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels creates such a new economic space for development. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In passing on the project to be considered, I would like to assure you that the Government Party is ready to participate in the parliamentary work on it. I believe that this regulation will allow Poland to participate in the technological revolution on a non-recipient basis, but co-create global trends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the undoubted honor and pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our opinion on the draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels, print No. 2147. It is worth noting that when it comes to the market for alternative fuels in transport in Poland, it is it, with the exception of liquid gas, in the initial stage of development. Such a stage in the development of this market makes there is no adequate infrastructure for fuelling, loading vehicles using these fuels. The provisions of the proposed law cover mainly the two types of alternative fuels - electricity and natural gas. These fuels now have the greatest potential for development. It should also be pointed out that the draft law transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure into the Polish legal order. This Directive requires Member States to develop alternative fuel infrastructure. States should ensure the development of charging points for electric vehicles, CNG or LNG filling points and LNG bunkering points for vessels. The Directive also requires Member States to introduce technical specifications, harmonised rules for charging electric vehicles and consumer information. The proposed law aims to define the principles for the development and functioning of infrastructure for the use of key alternative fuels in transport, including infrastructure used in public collective transport, public entities' obligations relating to the development of the electromobility market, information obligations on alternative fuels, conditions for the operation of low-carbon transport zones, and principles for the creation and content of a national policy framework for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. One of the most important parts of the proposed changes is the definition of the path of development and construction of public charging stations for electric vehicles and natural gas filling points. The project also lays down the rules for the operation of the above mentioned. the infrastructure and indicate the bodies responsible for the construction and management of charging stations and natural gas stations. This should enable the establishment of a core network of these fuels infrastructure and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the law and the objectives of the national framework set by the designer. The project submitted envisages separate paths for building infrastructure for electricity and natural gas. As the electromobility market is a new market, the rules for its functioning need to be regulated. Therefore, rules and arrangements have been identified to define the role, privileges and responsibilities of individual operators in this market. The proposed law also provides for the possibility for municipalities to introduce clean transport zones on which only alternative fuel vehicles could move. The introduction of zones will not be mandatory, but may facilitate the fight against air pollution in cities. The project also sets out rules on how to inform consumers about alternative fuels, how to label distributors and vehicles and how to establish and operate the records of alternative fuels infrastructure. This is a requirement of the directive I mentioned earlier. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that this project be directed to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to present its position on the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. First of all, about the assumptions of this law. The proposed law introduces solutions aimed at stimulating the development of electromobility and the use of alternative fuels in the transport sector by laying down legal standards for the development of infrastructure for charging electric cars and filling cars with gas, which is intended to reduce the dependence of transport on hydrocarbon fuels and should translate into improved air quality, especially in cities. Secondly, this legislation implements the 2014 Parliament and Council Directive on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure in the Polish legal order for which, due to the lack of implementation in due time, the European Commission has initiated appropriate proceedings. At the same time, however, the bill is like a collection of godly wishes. The name of this law, its title would point to great goals, which thanks to this law will be achieved. The projectors in this act did what it seems to be easier to do: dreaming of an innovative Polish economy, about a society which uses vehicles powered by emission-free fuels in mass, was designed in a law of the way in which the cost of the idea for electromobility was transferred to the shoulders of citizens and local government units. What is the reason for this view of the bill? Firstly, the incentive scheme provided for in this Act. An example of the most important incentives is the exemption from excise duty of electric vehicles, which thus reduces the price of the vehicle by 3%. This is not much if we compare it with other countries and incentive schemes used in them. This is another increase in the amount of depreciation, addressed to both natural and legal persons, exemption from parking fees or exemption of buses from tolls on national roads. If this incentive system was to attract interest in emission-free vehicles, it seems that its scale is not sufficient to move from dream to reality in this so-called so-called. electromobility. Secondly, the Act awards one source of driving the vehicle, namely electricity. Some solutions the Act dedicates to infrastructure and vehicles powered by natural gas, but only incidentally refers to hydrogen-powered vehicles. Given the number of solutions that the Minister also mentioned in other legislation on energy, especially renewable energy, it appears that this law is a further sequence of events aimed at restoring coal-based energy. It is a pity that recently more and more coal for the Polish economy is absorbed from the East. Thirdly, it wonders why this law, by introducing basically good solutions, e.g. concerning the free establishment of transmission services to the distribution operator of the electrical system by the State Treasury, the municipality and municipal legal persons, omits state legal entities which are excluded and omitted in this system. It also sets out the time at which a fleet of cars and urban communications must reach a certain share of electric vehicles or powered by natural gas, so that at least in the case of local self-government units there may be a problem with assessing the costs they have to bear at the assumed time in order to achieve the objectives. Analyzing the bill, e.g. Article 2 35, Art. 36 and Article 36 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 86, the local government unit must ask itself when The Platform Club is asking for the bill to be passed for further legislative work, and the rest of my time will be used by a colleague. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u137	Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u138	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are convinced that it is crucial for the Polish economy to support the development of new technologies. For this reason, it is very pleased that the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels is being processed in the Seym. We have already had the opportunity to look at the work on this bill in the Permanent Sub-Committee on Smart Cities Development Policy and Electromobility, which I have the honour of chairing. And indeed, this work was quite dynamic, which is important, without missing a public consultation. However, unfortunately, we need to express our great concern about the lack of transparency of this law on a number of issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Namely, our doubts arise, among others. the issue of sensitive financing for the development of electromobility of infrastructure elements. And so above all, the network of 6,000. The electric charging points mentioned here by the Minister are quite important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u139	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u140	We also want to make it clear that we feel that the law has the opportunity to really support the Polish economy, but the implementation of its objectives requires much more financial support from the state than it is enshrined in the law. Electromobility and fuel...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u142	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...alternative are the future of the new economy, which was often mentioned by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. With this in mind, therefore, it is extremely important to develop precise regulations, ladies and gentlemen. Only in this way will we ensure the long-term development of electromobile technologies and companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u144	...who are involved in this process. Without this, Polish zero-emission transport will only remain an unattainable vision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u145	Thank you very much. And I would very much ask you to comply with your time. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz'15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting the club's position on behalf of the Kukiz 15 club regarding the government's draft electromobility and alternative fuels bill. The project deals with issues that should already be regulated in Polish legislation. At this point we are adapting, so to speak, our legislation to the EU directive. And what do we have here? The design itself is smaller in terms of volume than justification. The second sentence states: Alternative fuels in transport should be understood as fuels or energy sources which serve at least partially as a substitute for raw oil sources of energy in transport and which can potentially contribute to the increase in the climate neutrality of transport and to the improvement of the environmental performance of the transport sector. These are among others. electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, synthetic and paraffin fuels, CNG combined natural gas or liquefied LNG, LPG liquid gas. Great assumptions, excellent justification in the first two sentences, but there is a small problem. In the explanatory memorandum we write about hydrogen, in fact in chapter 3 of the article. 32 states that the General Director of National Roads and Motorways is drawing up a plan for the location of public charging stations and natural gas stations along its core network road management, etc., etc. Where's the hydrogen? There isn't. The world slowly shifts to hydrogen as well. No hydrogen filling stations were included at all. These cars have been driving since 2014. That's not enough. There's a 1,000-dollar network planned. hydrogen-powered car stations across Europe. There's no hydrogen. Few of this, at the conference, the Congress 590 policy of the Polish tractor manufacturer provided for hydrogen supply. There's a very big, important problem left out here. You can talk about it for a long time. Here's another thing. Art. 39 provides that in order to prevent adverse effects on human health and the environment due to the emission of pollutants from transport in a compact housing area with a concentration of public buildings, a clean transport zone may be established to which the entry of non-electric hydrogen-powered vehicles powered by natural gas is restricted. How are these hydrogen-powered cars supposed to be, how is it not planned for the development of a network of hydrogen stations? That's once. And the other thing. We are still talking about fees here: the entry fee in the clean transport zone cannot be higher than 30 PLN per day. The inhabitants of large agglomerations and large cities, strict cities with no money for a new vehicle, many times more expensive than the classic, will pay a total of several hundred zlotys a year, of course to the local government. It is the voluntary establishment of such zones, it is the full freedom of self-government. Unfortunately, knowing life and Polish realities, these zones will be established and these charges will be enforced at the upper price limit. There will be no relief for the citizen. The final result is that the city centers can only stay for beautiful, rich and electric cars from the United States, or that drive several-year-old cars, but with LNG installations. That's it. That's it. Of course, the assumptions are excellent: concern for smog, about air quality. It must be added that there are a lot of exemptions here, that institutions concerning state security, services, etc. they are, so to speak, excluded from the obligation to use electric drives. If there is such concern for air, then why government limousines standing e.g. The Sejm's buildings work all the time on slow rotations? Six-litre engines, right? I don't think anybody's noticed how big this concern is. Therefore, when presenting the position of Kukiz'15, I propose that the project be rejected in its entirety in order to present a new one, taking into account all the above considerations. Thank you very much. And keep that in the record.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u147	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. Let me first remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki, at the beginning of 2016, when he held his post as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development, announced that in 10 years' time, i.e. at the end of 2025, 1 million electric cars will drive around Poland. Electromobility was supposed to be a priority for the government and the flywheel of an innovative economy. Today, after nearly 2 years since the Prime Minister's announcement, Poland is driven by less than 1 thousand. electric cars, with half of them driving two years ago, we also have only 50 charging stations. Whether the contested bill is the first step towards the implementation of the announcements almost two years ago, it is actually difficult to judge today. This project focuses on several important elements. Firstly, it is a promotion, a definition of the conditions for the development and rules for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in transport, without which the development of the sector will be impossible. Secondly, it is the creation of rules for the operation of clean transport zones. At this point I would like to remind you that on February 24th Ub. The draft submitted by the Modern Ecozones was rejected by Members of the Law and Justice. Minister! At that time, this project in the government was led by the Minister of Infrastructure. And so I encourage you to read, I advise you to familiarize yourself with this project, because in my deep conviction it describes the issue of fighting for clean air in urban agglomerations much more precisely and better. He then gave authority to the councils of the municipalities over 200,000. residents. Let us be honest: communication pollution is a problem mostly in large cities. It is worth noting that the issues relating to the alternative fuels market in transport presented in the draft law are so far practically not regulated by law. The Act intended to improve the availability of charging of electric vehicles and infrastructure for natural gas-powered vehicles. Thus, in line with these plans, over 6 000 were planned to be built over the next three years. Chargers and 400 high-speed charging stations. The obligation to build infrastructure will fall on the private sector, although it is difficult to assume that it will simply be highly profitable investments. In view of the above, the plan referred to by the Minister will probably have to be launched after 3 years. Perhaps public sector involvement is also extremely important. I mean here, for example, companies of the State Treasury, in particular distribution network operators, or local authorities. The government intends to transfer PLN 18,5 billion to support electromobility. This appropriation is intended to cover assistance in the construction of infrastructure, aid for electric cars or reductions already mentioned here. I mean, relief from excise duty. Are incentives sufficient? It appears that it is possible to achieve the share of zero-carbon and low-carbon vehicles in public transport and the public sector. This is feasible, but with the enormous effort of local authorities, all the more so since the European funds in this perspective have already been practically contracted and those electronic vehicles that were to be purchased have already been purchased or are currently being tendered for in this case. For example, Kraków purchased 20 electric vehicles. This is a drop in the sea of needs. For a rolling stock of 650 buses to reach half of this ceiling, you need a financial expenditure of PLN 800 million. This is the scale of the challenge in one big city. Therefore, if the opportunities for supporting this sector are in question, even from European funds, as you probably think, the Minister is standing, I would say, under a large question mark in the future European budget, after 2020 - perhaps we need to look for alternative sources of support for local governments so that this issue can be realised. Another element is the strengthening of demand actions. I'm very afraid that this 3-percent relief in excise duty is just nothing that she won't be an incentive enough. We're talking about vehicles whose value is usually much higher than 100,000. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With all due respect, I think with that kind of budget, that's $3,000. PLN or $4,000. zł are not a key element in the decision to purchase such rolling stock. Therefore, for this project to succeed, to become to some extent universal, so that we can generate demand, a catalogue of reliefs or incentives should be much more extensive. There should be a state policy to rejuvenate the fleet. Well, shame for Poland that the average...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u150	...the age of vehicles exceeds 12 years. Of course, the Modern Posel Club is in favour of directing the bill to further work in committee. We'll be working on it. But I also encourage the Minister to make this third element especially...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u151	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u152	...in connection with the demand actions to expand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u154	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To begin with, I will say that the Polish People's Party Members' Club is in favour of further proceding this bill, because it is an important law and necessary, because it puts on modernity, at least in assumptions, and without modernity there is no development of the economy, there is no progress, there is no prosperity, everyone is aware of it. We have unpleasant experiences in energy, in the energy sector. Well, it's sad to say that for the last two years, we've gone back here in this modernity, doing weird volts when it comes to renewable energy, alienating investors. Today they scare us with punishment, and it's pretty big punishment. It was incomprehensible to the whole of Europe, to the whole world, how we could turn back from the once chosen path. It is a good thing that at the moment there are some signals that there have been mistakes here, and it has to be gradually, because nobody here has talked about any revolution, going to these renewable energy sources, because there is no going back from that. Whether we love miners or not, whether we want to support coal or not, this discussion should not be here. Oh, Mr Gadowski said that. This discussion should not be because it has nothing to do with the other, and such opposition to these approaches is harmful. I think it's needed, it just takes a lot of effort, because there's no cheap modernity, there's no cheap progress. Progress costs money. What is expensive - there is such a saying and it works - is later cheap in operation, it is cheap in use. If we are betting on electromobility, on modernity, then we should not only mean infrastructure, but also who will benefit from this infrastructure. This has already been done in the case of natural gas compression. The compression stations were built, and then it turned out that there were no vehicles, there was no one to use it. So here these actions should go hand in hand. Although there are minimum incentives for users to purchase such vehicles, they are too small. They're too small, and I'm afraid there's not gonna be a break in here because people can't afford to invest in it today. These are expensive things, because modernity, as I said, costs money. By exempting from excise duty or giving someone a buspass, we will not encourage them to buy a modern, expensive, twice as expensive vehicle. These are expensive things, maybe a car for gas not, but as far as electric vehicles are concerned, their price is actually much higher. That's why we treat it as one of the elements, a small element, a struggle with smog. And this is case number one today because we have $40,000 a year. Poles, our citizens, die because of bad air condition. Today in Warsaw, how we were scared - at least in the morning - we will have the worst air in Poland. This is one of the little pieces of the smog fight, but we think we need it. We will support these activities as well as other activities, but there must be coordinated financial assistance for residents. You can't plan infrastructure without discernment. These comments are submitted by local authorities, by various institutions and also reach us. There must be full synchronization of these actions and decisive action, because if it spreads over time, the effect will be negligible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u155	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. The bill was long awaited because of the need to include national climate policy in the framework of European Union directives and the global energy transition. The bill was subject to special arrangements and public consultation. As a result of these actions, a legislative act has been created, which is a compromise between the administrative burden for citizens and the necessary regulations creating a space for building a new clean environment that is free from toxic chemicals and dust in the air around us. One of the means to increase the climate neutrality of transport and improve the state of the economy in terms of applying environmental solutions is the development of the market for alternative fuels, which is in the initial stage of development in Poland. It is therefore necessary to establish a legal framework in line with the requirements of Directive 2014/94/EU for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, for the filling of natural gas vehicles, for the identification of information obligations on alternative fuels and for the establishment of rules for the operation of clean transport zones. The second pillar of the implementation of the aforementioned. The European Union directive is to create conditions for the development of electromobility, including the definition of rules for the provision of electric vehicle charging services. This draft law sets out separate paths for the creation of infrastructure for electricity and natural gas. This approach is due to the differences between these two types of fuels. The aim of the proposed act is also to develop public charging stations for electric vehicles and filling stations for natural gas cars throughout Poland. Although the contested law imposes new obligations on gas and electricity distribution system operators and other operators in these markets, their entry into force is however spread over time and will serve the good of the whole society. Some controversy in public opinion raises the possibility for municipalities to introduce clean transport zones, where only alternative fuel-powered vehicles can move. However, it should be noted that the introduction of these zones will not be mandatory and will certainly facilitate the fight against air pollution in cities. The whole conceptual apparatus and a coherent catalogue of definitions concerning natural gas and electromobility infrastructure should be welcomed in the draft law. The introduction of statutory technical requirements for charging points will allow the proper implementation of the provisions of Directive 2014/94/EU and ensure the safety of electric vehicle users. A positive solution is to exclude the economic activity of offering a vehicle charging service from the obligation to have a concession for the sale of electricity, which should interest small operators in this new activity. As part of the drafting of the bill, around 1200 comments were submitted by almost 100 different entities representing often different positions. A large group of entrepreneurs, electricity distribution system operators as well as local government units and electric vehicle users themselves were among those who submitted comments. The results of the public consultation, together with their analysis, have been presented, inter alia. at the meeting of the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team on 26 October 2017, a parliamentary team which I have the honour to be president. It is also worth noting that one of the important elements supporting and complementary the development of the electromobility system will now be the final phase of the agreement of the Minister of Energy on detailed rules for the shaping and calculation of tariffs and electricity billing, called the Anti-Smog Tariff Regulation, which will encourage not only the use of electric heating in households but also the charging of electric vehicles at night, i.e. from 3 p.m. 22 to 10 p.m. 6. According to the logic of the total opposition, it is best not to do anything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, today's criticism expressed by Members of the Civic Platform or the Polish People's Party. That is why I would like to stress with all my power here that this is a very good bill. [[I think you were asleep.]] One reservation, Minister. I refer to the statements made by my previous speakers, especially Mr Sitarski from Kukiz.15. Please draw your attention and enter a record in the Act on the use of hydrogen as fuel. I think this supplement is necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u158	Your Marshal, Mr Platform Member, has exceeded his time by one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u159	But I'm paying attention to everyone at the same time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the government's draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Do we have a list of Members willing to ask questions yet? Anyone else want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns financial matters. Generally, the ideas contained in this project are undoubtedly right, although the project is not without certain shortcomings. This was discussed by the previous speakers, but I would like to ask whether the funds that are included in the bill are sufficient. For 10 years, you are expecting about PLN 60 million of funding from the state budget. This is not a large amount, for 2018 the amount is to be about PLN 4 million. By the way, I have a question. We have just finished work on the 2018 draft budget. Are those funds, despite such a small amount, definitely written down there? Is there no doubt about how to get this small amount? I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's an idea not invented by the Government of Law and Justice, because actually Juncker's plan has already made it clear. Today we also have the implementation of EU law in this law. True, as practically all the speakers said, there are no specifics, there are only titles that have been posted there. Minister, I'd like to ask you... The Act sets out the time within which the fleet it owns is to reach the required percentage of zero-emission vehicles. I would like to ask if you have calculated what costs these local governments, individual local governments, must spend on the implementation of this law. Second question. How will this be settled in the case of inter-communicants that carry out trans-local and local communication within a single communication relationship? It's very important because actually who's gonna give the money [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the implementation of this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project proposes a level of support for the demand side. As has been said several times here, it has nothing to do with the great objectives of the electric mobility development plan. In many European countries, entire programmes to support the development of electromobility have already been implemented. My question to the Minister: Are we planning to finance the purchase of electric vehicles? The second question concerns the construction of charging points. Why limited the location of high-speed charging points on main national roads and motorways? What is the cause of this? Do you not think that the location of collection points on the main roads and motorways is a barrier to the development of electromobility in Poland? And to Mr Profit: The Civic Platform supported this project and was in favour of directing it to work in committee, so I do not know why this comment from the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u167	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u168	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act refers to a fund to support electromobility. It will aim at, among other things. supporting the construction of a Polish electric car, but also the entire infrastructure of this service. My questions are, first of all, about what budget this fund will have and how much of this budget will go for the ongoing maintenance of the fund and how much will actually be directed at real support for this electromobility. The second question concerns information when the fund will start to operate in real terms. I am thinking here of the readiness to accept and implement proposals in the form of funding individual investments. I have another question, Minister, because some are enchanted by the myth of the Polish electric car, because it actually sounds very proud. And I want to ask how much of this Polishness will actually be in this Polish car, because it is said that the engine will come from the United States, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The dashboard will be German, the body will be from Great Britain, and the wipers are supposed to be made by a German concern. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u169	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u170	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to return to Mr Gawlik and Mr Sitarski's speeches and ask about this hydrogen. The Act only briefly mentions hydrogen as an alternative fuel. Now in the world, this is the second fastest growing technology of zero-emission transport after electric cars, which is why I think it will be a big mistake for the Polish economy. Is there a more complete support for the development of hydrogen technologies in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u171	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act concerns the creation of an infrastructure for charging electric cars and filling gas vehicles. Electromobility is in itself a road and practically without state support and expenditure is difficult to implement. Here, the proposed regulations will provide the basis for financing infrastructure and investment in smart distribution systems. Any action will require setting up the operation of the electricity network and reducing interruptions in the supply of electricity in planned or emergency situations. And here's the question: What investments will distributors have to make to adapt to electromobility, to increase, so to speak, transmission networks? Here there is a risk that these costs will be passed on to final customers. Is there such a risk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u173	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u174	Dear Marshal! Minister! In the current form, the Act contains provisions introducing incentives for the purchase of alternative fuels for local governments and companies. However, there is doubt about the lack of incentives for individual customers to purchase such vehicles. Achievement of 1 million electric vehicles by 2025, which is obviously referred to in the procedated Act, will not be possible without support for individual customers. Therefore, my question is: Why is there no provision for relief for ordinary citizens in the Act, Minister? I think... It is so important and justified that it has already appeared in previous club appearances. I will also ask you about the question that you have asked. I hope, Minister, that on the choice of Polish body [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a Polish car it won't end. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u175	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u176	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Towards the end of 2016, the government adopted a plan for the development of electromobility in Poland. In fact, there are three stages of reaching objectives that are defined, among others. in the draft law. This project assumed that pilots related to the introduction of various solutions, including the construction of an electric vehicle charging station in individual agglomerations, would be prepared in the years 2016. Several local authorities have signed letters of intent concerning cooperation in this project. I would like to ask the Minister if it is clear which cities these pilot actions will be carried out and where these electric vehicle charging stations will be located. I would like to persuade the Minister once again, as I argued in the interpellation, to have one of these pilots carried out [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Szczecin, which has excellent capabilities and meets all the requirements that are included in the development plan for electromobility. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there are already designated towns and whether it is possible for this to happen in Szczecin. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u178	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister a question. You mentioned alternative, monorail vehicles here. In Rzeszow, President Ferenc has been doing this for a long time, and he's in some kind of trouble all the time. Will this problem be solved? Because it's necessary, it's necessary, the work is advanced, everyone's waiting to start it. One thing, on the other hand. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You have also heard, I have not been critical of this project, I have made my comments, and here one of the Members says that the Polish People's Party is criticizing the bill. Something incomprehensible. What's it like, Minister? Did I say the bill was bad? You have to be reasonable about that. Mr President, when we talked about how bad things are in health, how bad things are in the woods, how bad things are in defense, how you were drinking peany here. And today, what do you have to say? You can't do that. If we are to cooperate, cooperate, we must support each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u179	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't mind promoting electromobility, but we need to think about it as a comprehensive action. You are here proposing solutions to ensure that there are charging stations, but I have a question about whether the Minister has had the opportunity to familiarize himself with the opinion and the Swedish studies, which indicate that at the moment the amount of CO2 produced in the production of tesla batteries is equivalent to the eight-year operation of a combustion vehicle. This is, of course, less for smaller cars. I wonder if you've analyzed one thing. Indeed, this whole electromobility has enormous advantages and justification in countries where the percentage of energy generated from renewable sources is very high. Therefore, all Scandinavian countries, which are leaders in this area, can afford to do so. And what did you do? First you deleted the RES, and now you're gonna be [[♪ The bell ♪]] propose electromobility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u181	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u182	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question will concern incentives for buying cars and electric vehicles. Here we're talking about excise duty relief, but that's only about 3%, or 3.6%. and in the case of cars, which cost from a hundred and several thousand zlotys higher, it seems that this is an incentive which is nothing like a purchase decision. That's too small a percentage. I'd like to ask if you had any discussions at the Ministry of Finance, for example. So that she can introduce a VAT exemption or some other incentive, maybe replace an old car with a new one with some kind of bonus. That's how they did it. our western neighbors many years ago when there was this exchange action. It seems that these solutions would be much more effective than the mere abandonment of excise duties, which simply seems insufficient here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u183	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two short questions. The first question is: Is it e.g. fuel station distribution networks are planning to expand their infrastructure so that recharging stations are established? Are these plans just getting to it? Because it would undoubtedly increase the availability of this infrastructure in a radical way. That's the first question. Of course, I mean mostly Lotus and Orlen. On the other hand, the second question is related to a number of responsibilities which fall on local authorities, including the issue of the need for replacement of rolling stock, whether for own use or in collective transport. As I know, the project went to the joint committee in November. r. but did not obtain an opinion. What were the reasons why this opinion or the agreement of the joint government committee on the part of the local government was not there? At least that's my opinion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from local government. And I couldn't find my opinion in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, if you don't mind, that's the first question. Why is it that in a group of emission-free vehicles which may use local government units for communication purposes in their activity, only vehicles powered by electricity and natural gas are included in the statutory objective and hydrogen-powered vehicles are ignored? Second question. What justifies the increased liability of the operator of the public charging station for the damage caused by the failure of the public charging station to comply with the technical requirements? There's that tighter liability under the law. And question three. Why are the costs of building, repairing and modernising natural gas stations, those which are generally available, borne by the distribution system operator included in the justified costs? This is another tax imposed on all members of society, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not only those who will use this vehicle, but also those who will be gas recipients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u187	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say that we are seeing the transition from the PowerPoint phase to the legislative process in the case of this bill. And both are, unfortunately, not very specific and not very effective. I didn't find any analysis on how to really stimulate that Poles should really switch to electromobility, what resources must be spent at what level. After all, there is comparative material in Europe and in the world, and it could be done. At the moment, there are creatures that will not be verifiable and have no effect, because without any analysis, we can see that these fiscal incentives, which are, will be completely ineffective. And then there's the next line. It is apparent that this project will reduce smog in cities to any extent. After all, we're actually going from hydrocarbons to Russian coal from power plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's not really effective fighting smog in cities. Why aren't there projects on low- or zero-emission collective transport, betting on rail transport, also electric ones? It is creating a dream that gives the impression that Poles will now be such a technological locomotive...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u190	...Europe and the world, without any concrete details in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u191	Thank you very much, Member. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Michał Kurtyka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank you very warmly, because this debate shows - as it seems to me after this year's work together, because you have also participated in it, for which I thank you, in various forums and conventions - that electromobility is the subject that connects us. We are connected in the sense that these voices of criticism that I hear concern rather not whether electromobility, but why so little or why no more, or why we would not be able to take more intensive action. I'm sure this is a discussion that's worth having, and it's worth it for us to have a discussion on this bill. From my perspective, I can assure you that the Ministry of Energy has had a very intense dialogue with other resorts, including in particular the finance department, and the work effect we have is a balanced compromise between where we are today in terms of budget, and where technological development is today in terms of electromobility. I would like to refer here to the greatest ally of this project. This is technological progress. This is the factor that makes electric vehicles cheaper and cheaper every year. And if we now rely on research or analysis concerning not only Poland... In her last speech, she asked the question about whether we were based on some kind of study. Well, there are a lot of them, there are more and more of them, and they generally indicate that there will be a structural change around 2020, 2022, in this period of time, in terms of the cost structure of the use of the vehicle based on the combustion engine versus the electric vehicle. This is why technological progress is the biggest ally of this project. In our thinking about electromobility, we have been constantly looking for ways that will enable this technological progress to stimulate or build conditions in which it could best affect the structure of costs. And if you could ask me, I would ask that this set of support instruments, which was included in the Act on Electromobility, be treated not selectively, speaking of excise duties only or only one or another element, but comprehensively. Because from my perspective this law is a kind of incentive, it is a kind of toolkit for entrepreneurial and innovative people who will be able to build innovative business models from various components of this law. For example, we can think of carsharing operators here. We did special workshops with them in Gdynia, at the turn of the year... in recent weeks, on how we can take into account the challenges of carsharing in electromobility, because carsharing is a way to reduce the number of vehicles in the city. At the same time, we wondered how to make these vehicles greener and more electric. And what they paid attention to, e.g. Carsharing operators, the fact that the key barriers for them today as regards the use of vehicles in cities is, for example, non-accessibility of parking spaces. Hence, we give local governments the opportunity to decide where parking spaces for electric vehicles will be dedicated. If they are additionally equipped with charging infrastructure, it is all the better, but you can also imagine only dedicated places for electric vehicles, plus free parking in city centers, if all of these seats are occupied, the possibility of using lanes reserved for buses. This is why fiscal incentives must be imposed, so it is about excise duty exemption or depreciation. The depreciation copy, which is proposed in this Act, is very important because it changes the amount of the write-off from 20 to 30 thousand. Euros. In other words, the trader will be able to include in the cost of using such a vehicle additionally 10,000. Euros. And in this context, with regard to this set of tools or a set of instruments that are mentioned in the Act, I would ask whether I would encourage in this discussion we to treat it comprehensively and to treat it as a sort of set of instruments that will then be creatively worked out by entrepreneurs. And in this context, I would like to say that the situation is not static, that the electromobility market poses completely new development challenges for us. It's not like we can go to some country and see how they do it, and obviously better or worse to copy only what's there. Many countries today are experimenting with different types of models in terms of electromobility as regards autonomous transport. And we too will have to face the fact that such legislation should be periodically reviewed, should be periodically assessed as to whether all the innovative business models that form in economic space are able to absorb regulatoryly. So that as far as this bill is concerned, its simplicity is like simplicity, I would say, a constitution, because it is giving simple, predictable, clear rules as to how this market should be constructed. It clearly gives priority to market action in terms of electromobility, because we expect business initiatives here. However, we are certainly also aware that during this first period we will need additional support. It was here - I will now try to address the questions that have been asked me - on the part of Mr Arndt, the question concerning the amount of 60 million from the state budget. This is the amount of direct payments, while the total cost of this law consists of a lot of elements, including the depreciation write-downs mentioned by me. Or an exemption from excise duty. And it all consists of an amount that exceeds PLN 18 billion during the duration of this law. On the other hand, these expenditures from the State budget, in respect of the years 2018, 2019, are already included in the Budget Act or relate to 2019. I would also like to add that by learning this electromobility or creating public dynamics, public policy around electromobility, we have just started with public transport. And in this context, at the end of last year, from the point of view of the government, there were two very important events: on the one hand, on 28 December there was the adoption of this draft law, which we have the opportunity to discuss today, but on the other hand, 29 December there was the signing of an agreement between the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the National Centre for Research and Development on the financing of a public transport emission-free programme, which mobilises public funds of over PLN 2 billion for the mobilisation of this public electric transport. This is an unprecedented powerful programme, and it seems to me that it is certainly the largest in Europe, the question whether, at this moment, if left aside China, not one of the largest in the world, which on this scale puts on the development of electromobility, and on this scale says that as a country we are ready, where this market is most mature, put sufficient resources on the line to make this revolution our industry benefit from, our economy benefit, our technical thought, and in the perspective of being able to top this glass ceiling of the medium income trap. As regards issues related to the project - Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska's question - whether it is limited to the main roads and motorways, I would say that it is not. This project is absolutely not limited to the main roads and motorways, but provides that in 32 major agglomerations in Poland, as well as along European routes, transport corridors should be sufficient infrastructure, which is defined by us in the documents that were adopted at the beginning of 2017, in March 2017. This is a document that talks about the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, where we have found that the minimum we need to talk about is 6400 charging points, which will arise in these major agglomerations and on the main roads, but in no way limits anything, but on the contrary. As far as the Polish automotive sector is concerned, because here a question was asked about Polish electric cars, there is undoubtedly Polish potential of the automotive industry, i.e. over 1000 companies are very dynamically developing, with huge innovation potential. There is a dialogue between the Ministry of Energy and these actors, so I can say that our government dynamics regarding regulation, as well as the promotion of electromobility, are not unrelated to their business plans. These companies are aware that in order to benefit from this revolution, they must take action today to adapt their offer and be competitive for those who will want to install electric vehicles in the future. Now it is important to be aware that the automotive industry is, generally speaking, a global industry, so it is becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish between the place where the vehicle is mounted and the network of subsuppliers. As Poland, we are also part of such sub-supply networks and what we can talk about today is the aim of ensuring that the elements of this manufacturing chain of electric vehicles with the highest added value are located in Poland. From this perspective, the emphasis on electromobility, the promotion of electromobility really does not remain without echo from the perspective of the business plans of these entities. But then, when it comes to whether it is possible to say that the part is constructed here and another - elsewhere, I think it is a less critical issue. We have had a lot of comments on the hydrogen issue - Mr Sitarski, Mr Papke - for which I thank you. Indeed, hydrogen technologies certainly have a future, which is also reflected in this law. We defined a hydrogen vehicle, we considered that hydrogen vehicles should also benefit from a number of these benefits, which were defined in the Act. However, we must also be aware that the development of these markets, in terms of electromobility versus hydrogen, is taking place at different paces and that we must once again pragmatically direct our attention to those areas that are developing as soon as possible, which, as I said, does not mean that the hydrogen issue should not be addressed in any way. We're moving her in this bill. Moreover, within the framework of a fund relating to low-carbon transport - this is a law which accompanies the electromobility Act, which is a source of funding for many initiatives that have been defined in this law - will also be an opportunity to finance hydrogen-related activities. As regards issues relating to Mr Cieślinski's questions on whether the project contains sufficient relief for citizens, I would say that, as I mentioned, this project is a balanced compromise reached within the framework of the government and lists a number of benefits for citizens, including. excise duty, the ability to move around the bus lanes, free parking. However, we should also consider the relationship between the cost of buying such a vehicle and the cost of operating it. It turns out that the electric vehicle is much cheaper in operation, especially now that, as the Ministry of Energy, we are taking initiatives to reduce the cost of charging the electric vehicle, in general the cost of electricity at night. This cost will be within a few zlotys for driving 100 km. In other words, the electric vehicle will be much cheaper to use for an individual user, who - I am convinced - will also see the advantages of this vehicle over time. More and more of our citizens will be convinced of electric vehicles already at the beginning, as the cost of buying them decreases, but above all to a significant extent afterwards, looking at how low the cost of using them will be compared to the cost of using combustion vehicles. Referring to Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka's question, I will say that 51 cities have already signed letters of intent in terms of cooperation between the government and local governments on the development of electromobility. In 2017 there were 79 electric buses in Poland. We estimate that in 2019 there will be 430 of them, which is a huge increase. As for the 100 electric buses that we produced in 2017, in 2018 - as all the data that we collect from manufacturers at the moment - the increase will be three times, we will produce 300% more of these vehicles, there will be 300 in 2018. Ideally we shot this offer into the needs of not only the Polish but also the European self-government market. Thank you very much for reminding Mr Kasprzak of the monorail issue. This is actually a topic that specifically concerns a city such as the Reichs. I hope that the bill, which we are now adopting, will at least open the possibility to experiment, test such solutions, because testing such solutions will be necessary to develop implementing rules for this law. One thing is to create at the level of the law the possibility of using monorails, and the other is the implementing rules, which, as I say, as in many cases of technological development, we will have to learn a little bit more, so here is a kind of synergy to predict when it comes to R &amp; D expenditure. With regard to Mr Meysztowicz's question about CO2 produced by electric vehicles, as well as throughout the entire production chain of electric vehicles, this is undoubtedly an area for analysis, for discussion. I think there will certainly be a lot going on here as regards what is the overall balance sheet as regards the various types of component production. However, what we can say today and there are research results of European institutions, but also European think tanks, what is very important, is that in the case of the Polish power mix, it is still largely a mix, which also contains a lot of components, but above all it is a mix based on traditional fossil fuels, regardless of which CO2 emissions from such a vehicle are already significantly lower than emissions from a direct combustion vehicle. We therefore benefit not only from what I think is crucial from the perspective of Polish cities, as regards nitrogen oxides, as regards all types of dust, PM10, PM2,5, because this is what is bothering us today in the centers of cities, but also from the point of view of what is inventory in European climate policy, namely CO2 emissions. I think we had some more questions... [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: About the support fund...]] ...on the part of Mr Gadowski, Mr Kobyliński, on the replacement of import cars, on the time to change the fleet in local governments and administrations. Undoubtedly for us, for Polish cities, it will be an important civilization challenge for local governments to collate regulations that promote electric vehicles or low-carbon vehicles so that we do not fall behind their counterparts in Western Europe, because if we have a situation in which older combustion vehicles will gradually be withdrawn in Western Europe, we will have to ensure that this fleet of our vehicles reflects the latest trends and that we do not become a country to which cars or vehicles will be imported too old. With regard to Mr Owl's question about how networks are being developed, how infrastructure is developed by fuel companies, indeed all fuel companies are already taking up the challenge of electromobility, both Orlen and Lotos. I think that a spectacular example for them is also a huge European investment by Shell in the charging network in western Europe. Finally, as regards the question of whether the project has received a positive opinion on the committee of the common government and the local government, I can confirm that it has obtained it. Therefore, this project was the subject of the deliberations of the body. I think... I'm not sure I answered all the questions in detail. [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Support Fund, Support Fund.]] Fund. Thank you very much. Low-carbon Transport Fund. We have, in parallel, a second project in the government that has already passed the stage of the Permanent Committee, which defines the Low Carbon Transport Fund. It will make sense to amend the Biocomponents and Biofuels Act strictly. Under this law, we will separate the existing mechanism, which dedicated 1.5% excise duty on fuels for clean transport for electromobility. In the perspective of 2028 it will be PLN 4.5 billion, so it will be a very significant amount. The possible actions that can be financed from this fund cover both the development of hard infrastructure and possible actions related to such or other point support for electric vehicles or the use of electric vehicles. In particular, it seems to me that this fund will play an important role in the financing of local governments and cities, which will not only be subject to a statutory obligation but will also be themselves, on their own initiative, ready to increase this number of electric vehicles in their fleets. To this end, the Low Carbon Transport Fund will serve and there will be sufficient resources to provide such funding. [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: What about time?]] I assume that the Low-carbon Transport Fund is a law that we should send from the Council of Ministers to the Sejm in the near future, so we will have this process before us, just as it will be with the Act on Electromobility. On the other hand, the first measures that are foreseen for the Low Emission Transport Fund in this version, which has been passed by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, have been in place since 2019. [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Thank you.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u193	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sitarski still asked very much for the floor. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We've been talking, Minister, about what I've been talking about, exactly the two subjects that it crashed into. The proposal to reject the project at first reading. There is probably a chance that in the committee we will carry out such a process over this law, that these two comments, which are crucial to us, should be taken into account. I therefore withdraw my objection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u195	Thank you very much, sir. You've withdrawn your motion for rejection. The discussion is closed. Therefore, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Sejm proposes that the draft law on electromobility and alternative fuels, contained in print No 2147, should be addressed to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation (prints Nos 1995 and 2119). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present a report to the Extraordinary Committee on deregulation of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 53rd meeting on 8 December, the Sejm handed over the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation. The Commission addressed it at its meeting on 13 December. The project concerns, as indicated in the title, the shortening of the retention period of employee files from 50 to 10 years and their electronicisation. The Act has 11 articles, there are amendments to four laws: to the Labour Code, to the Act on National Archive Resources and Archives, to the Act on the Social Insurance System and the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. No amendments or minority proposals were reported during the committee's work. The Commission proposes that the attached draft law be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u197	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Uściński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. We discussed this project in detail at first reading. I would just like to remind you that the project is primarily about shortening the period of storage of the documentation from 50 to 10 years by appropriate transmission in declarations, reports to the ZUS of this information. They will be necessary to calculate pensions for Poles in the future, they will already be in the ZUS. When Poles retire, they will not have to collect this information themselves, to complete the documents themselves, they will be able to benefit from what has already been transferred to the Social Security Office, but if they wish, they will be able to collect this information from employers after the end of this period of 10 years of storage. The Act also introduces the possibility of storing employee records in electronic form instead of printed form. It is a digital form adapted to the current stage of economic development and social development. I think it will be a much lower cost for the economy as a whole. The cost of storing documentation in the year was estimated at PLN 130 million. Another amendment, the last one, in this law, is a proposed amendment to the rule standardising the payment of remuneration in cash. We want the desired basic form of payment to be a non-cash form. This change is expected by society and I think it will also reduce the grey area in terms of labour salaries. The Act is a typical deregulation law, making the law more friendly to Poles, limiting bureaucracy, limiting the number of printed documents. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice, I request further work from the High House to adopt this law, but we also propose three amendments to this law and these are amendments to extend the amendment. They aim to eliminate employees' records that operate without obtaining an entry in the register of holders of personal and payroll files kept by the Marshal of the voivodship. Documents archived by unauthorised keepers shall not constitute evidence in the pension or pension proceedings which may result in a reduction in the size of the benefit. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]] We want unauthorized stockholders to either cease their activities by the end of 2018 or obtain an entry in the relevant register. And these amendments I'm handing over to your marshal. Thank you very much. At the hands of the marshal, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u199	It's okay. Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska provided her position in writing. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not take too much time from this House because it is a good deregulation law. Last month I already told you that Kukiz15 supports this law as much as possible, and at this stage we continue to uphold our position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern. [[I'm here, Marshal.]] I'm very happy for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u202	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a statement on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage of employee files and their electronicisation, in print Nos 1995 and 2119. The project concerns the reduction from 50 to 10 years of retention of employees' records and payment records by transferring to the Social Security Office the data necessary to grant and determine the amount of pensions and to enable the employer to keep and maintain employee records in electronic form, optionally, which will simplify the handling of personal files. On 13 December 2017, the Extraordinary Commission for the deregulation has been working on this project and has not made any amendments to it. As the drafters point out in the explanatory memorandum, these provisions will speed up the process of drafting documents, shorten the search time of the files and, as a result, improve the quality of the documentation and the cost of storage will be reduced. The proposed solutions will have a positive impact on the safety of the employee. Among other things, he will not have to prove the correctness of the data recorded in his account before the ZUS. This will eliminate in the future the need to obtain from the former employer e.g. employment or salary certificates. In addition, the solutions so far are financial to employers. The long-term storage of employee records generates costs of about PLN 130 million per year for employers. However, the bill raises doubts in several points. Firstly, as noted by the National Trade Unions Agreement, the draft law does not indicate the obligation to apply safe hardware storage conditions. The OPZZ considers that it is appropriate to leave the existing form of information storage, as despite technological progress it is the most convenient and transparent not only for the parties to the employment relationship, but also for the authorities controlling the application and compliance of the law at the workplace. It is also indicated that storage of employees' documents in electronic form may be exposed to a number of negative factors. It belongs to them, among others. loss of data in case of breakdown of information systems or network hacking. Concerns also arise due to the inability to use equipment and programs, which can lead to negative effects for the employee, of course, but also for the employer. Despite these doubts, which we maintain all the time, because it is worth listening to the social side, trade unions, people who work every day in businesses, employers, despite those reservations which I hope will, in the course of the work still in Parliament, not only in the Seym, but also in the Senate, be disbanded, clarified, Modern is in favour of further work on this project, in favour of adopting this project, facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs, employers, but also employees, employees. We believe that the improvement of deregulation will benefit both sides of the employment relationship. We would like to draw attention to the fact that the doubts raised in the course of the public consultation should be resolved in the course of the parliamentary work or possibly in the Senate. So, at the very end, I'm going to repeat: we are in favour of this bill. I hope that the law will come into force quickly and will make life easier for entrepreneurs, employers, but also for employees in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to take the floor and present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of storage and electronicisation of employee files. High Izbo! Quite specifically, very elegantly speaking, there is a legal regulation in Poland regarding the sphere of the creation, use and storage of employee files. I have defined this in the word "specific" because in Poland there is an extremely long period of time, i.e. 50 years, and for both European and global conditions, where the standard is a period of 5, 10 years of storage of the file. On the other hand, this long period of 50 years does not in any way guarantee that the employee receives his file, of course, mainly in the event of the need to apply to the Social Insurance Institution for the right to a pension. It does not guarantee, because unlike the past era, when the main employees were large, usually state-owned companies, medium-sized, small, private capital and often changing their organisational structure dominates the current market. Therefore, even this requirement of 50 years of storage in confrontation with real life, with real events revealed a big problem and even some helplessness of employees or, it must be said, former employees. And let us remind and mark once again that it is the employee's duty to prove all the information related to this and necessary for the correct calculation of the pension or pension. The lack of evidence, as we know, directly affects the reduction in the amount of this benefit. High Izbo! The proposed solutions in this project should therefore be considered as good, expected. This, too, can be said to be the position of the deregulation committee, which has just been presented here by the rapporteur. It is good and expected to shorten the storage period. It's a major change, because, as I said, today's 50-year period is reduced to 10 years. If we take into account that the estimated cost for the economy for today's regulation is about 130 million PLN, the savings are huge. This is an effect for the employer, but we also say that this bill is good for the employee. The latter element is that the Act also provides for the obligation to provide information to the Social Insurance Institution, the institution for which the employee collects - mainly for the purposes of which, not only, but mainly for this institution - and which makes available information about his work, i.e. the period of employment and due remuneration. This very clearly changes the position of the insured worker. From an active person in the process he becomes a person verifying the correctness of data collected in the ZUS. It should also be stressed that employees or former employees will have current access to individual accounts. It is also worth noting that any employee who completes his or her work will receive information about his or her employment documents with a work certificate. High Izbo! Since it seems and indeed so that these regulations, this idea, this law are beneficial to each party, it is also proposed to shorten the storage and transmission of the act somewhat backwards, i.e. after 31 December 1998, however, provided that the employer lodges a declaration and so-called. an information report, i.e. documents, which will contain the necessary information to establish the basis for the assessment of the benefit. The law we are discussing today is to enter into force on 1 January 2019. This is for the experience of the Polish parliament is quite a long period of vacathio legis, but it seems that it is necessary for good technical preparation, for example technical, tooling, software, and I think it is also necessary for the good preparation of further regulations of the Social Insurance Institution, as the obligation to collect data in electronic form has been introduced. So in conclusion, I'm going to say that [[♪ The bell ♪]] We would like this law to enter into force quickly enough without collision, because it is a logical, good solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u206	Therefore, on behalf of the club, I declare that we will support this regulation and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u207	Thanks a lot. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan gave her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time is one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment states that the files are kept in paper or electronic form and then that we keep them for a period of 10 years. I wanted to ask if, in the case of files related, for example. a 10-year storage period will also be necessary with time of work. A shorter period of archiving shall already apply in the case of an employee's file not linked to the personal or payroll documentation on the basis of which the pension is established. The time limit within which claims from an employee may be made is shorter, e.g. in the case of working time records, this shall be a minimum of 3 years. So will this be taken into account at the next stage of work or during the drafting of regulations for the law? In my opinion, that's justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question is: Does the government intend to make amends in the near future to the harm suffered by workers in the process of privatization and commercialisation of enterprises lost or destroyed personnel-paying documents certifying their right to a pension? This applies to workers who took up work in the 1970s, 1998 and today they are applying for or need to prove their right to a pension. This problem concerned at least 11 million people in the first half of 2015. And my second question is: Is there work in the government on further shortening the storage time of employee files, e.g. Up to five years? Isn't the 10-year period when the computerization process in the economy is inevitably developing too long? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u211	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 1989, we have a defined premium system in the area of insurance. Since then, the ZUS has recorded all the influences, and here the transition to another data collection and archiving system is not a problem. The second group were born after 1949. In their case, initial capital was defined. However, there is a small group of people born earlier who, despite reaching the general retirement age, continue to work. I would like to ask how the problem of storing data about their insurance from earlier periods and delivering them to the Social Security Office was solved in such a way that the IT system would take over and not be lost as a result of the cessation of collection of paper data from earlier periods. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u213	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We agree that this project actually responds to the expectations of both entrepreneurs and employees, that it changes the approach to the kind of responsibilities they have, and thinking about these responsibilities, and that such a change that we can do a lot of things online and digitally, makes these solutions go in the right direction. However, there are situations that are sometimes difficult to predict in such a law. And I have a question. Will the entrepreneur have other plans after he closes his business - I do not know, will he have other plans - and after he has completed his business in electronic form will he transfer these documents to the Social Insurance Institution, which may be the basis for his former employees' pension, to be exempted from the obligation to keep all this data for the next 10 years? Because if he really passes it on as a whole, it doesn't seem reasonable to burden him with a 10-year retention period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u215	Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have in my hand a report on the effectiveness of the system for storing personal and payroll records, which was developed by NIK and is dated 21 September 2017. I fear that the effects and findings of this report have not been consummated in this law. Moreover, this report contains extensive correspondence between the President of NIK and the President of the ZUS, and the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Culture to which the archives are subject. The problem is the abandoned, stray, suddenly found when you don't know who's gonna admit it. Unfortunately, you have not solved this problem by moving the discussion of two ministers to the agenda. In my opinion, it was an opportunity to decide who the really abandoned files were to be dealt with. This report says that more than 2,200 thousand. The Poles did not submit an application for the establishment of initial capital. So the case is absolutely serious. I myself had two such cases as a voivode when I was working on the release of the Otomamu file in Krapkowice, where 2.5 thousand worked at the summit. People, and the District Dairy Cooperative, where I was told to appeal to the National Cooperative Council, which was supposed to deal with this problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, it wasn't established. It is sad to say that in this project there is no way to determine who is competent to take the files abandoned, found, etc. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u217	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Navel asked about time. Yes, time will fall within the scope of this law and time documentation will also be kept. On this subject, among others. there was a discussion at the committee meeting, we later met with one of the employers' organisations. This simply cannot be done otherwise, because there would be more complications and work than good if you wanted to divide these times, ranges. Therefore, the working time documentation will also fall within this scope. On the other hand, what is a certain ease is that even if the employer keeps the documentation in paper form or in paper form, the working time documentation will be able to be electronic. Because today, employers mostly electronically keep this documentation about time. Mrs Hrynkiewicz asked - and this is essentially also related to Mr Wilczyński's question - what about the missing files, because there was such a charge that we were not dealing with it. Firstly, this law or this bill concerns the retention of a certain phenomenon which is objectively unfavourable. The exit was either to work on a very comprehensive solution all the time, or to stop time and at the same time to think about solving the problem of past files. In answer to Mrs Hrynkiewicz and Mr Uścińska's question, I would say that we have discussed with President Uścińska that we will address this problem. On the other hand, the amendment tabled today by the Member is also the result of the discussion that took place at first reading. She's already partially facing this problem, because the essence of this amendment is that these stockholders, who are acting in some way out of law today, i.e. they are not included in the list kept by the marshal, they may have registered by the end of the year, registered on the list maintained by the marshal or transferred these files to a professional storekeeper by agreement if they do not decide to enter the legal system. Then the path is that we also impose an administrative financial penalty for storing files despite the lack of registration on this list. So it's kind of partial, and I stress: partial output, solution to this problem, because we're giving a chance to come out of the grey zone in terms of some documentation. Today, like the Member who presented this amendment, he said that the documentation from the storekeepers, in quotes, uncertified, is simply not recognised by the Social Security Office. The problem, however, is, as far as documentation is concerned... The starting point of this project - which is why the Ministry of Development is also the author of this project - was, as I said at first reading, simply reducing bureaucratic burdens for entrepreneurs. In fact, for years the problem of paper storage for 50 years has been indicated by companies as one of the less logical, I will say so gently, obligations imposed by law on entrepreneurs. There's no business here on the entrepreneur's side to keep this file for 50 years. Therefore, we did not deal with the existing files at the starting point in the broad sense of the problem. Besides, as the Member mentioned the issue of correspondence with the President of NIK, there was no Minister of Development or the economy there without a case. However, as a result of the discussion here in the Chamber, at first reading, the Member's attention is also part of this - indeed this problem together with the Social Security Office should be addressed. As regards Mrs Tomaszewska's question on the documentation proving employment before 1999, it is a dossier which is not covered by this draft law for objective reasons. Just before 1999, the employer provided only aggregated information on the amount of contributions for all employees, without being able to assign them to individual insured persons. Therefore, this proposal can certainly not include this dossier because it is not possible to verify this. On the other hand, when it comes to the task of trying to clean up these files, which, I say, are lost or stored by the insecure, I will say euphemistically, the keepers, this is the problem, by answering the questions of Mr Wilczyński and Mrs Hrynkiewicz, we want to deal with the president of the Social Security Office with you. Mr Meysztowicz asked about the situation of closure of the company, what about the documentation then. In such a situation, the trader, the employer, should transfer this documentation to the authorized keeper for payment, the present law regulates it, and then, of course, the trader no longer has to keep this documentation, of this obligation, in quotes, is released by transferring the documentation to the certified keeper and the responsibility for keeping that period to such a certified company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u219	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u220	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! As rapporteur for the committee, I will tell you that, of course, the amendments tabled at the second reading will be examined by the committee. I am pleased with the Minister's declaration that we will continue to work on how to secure the employee files which this law has not covered, those employee files that have long been archived, those employee files that have been kept for a long time with the keepers. I also welcome the constructive approach to the amendments proposed by the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u221	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my position on the draft amendments to the laws to which this debate is concerned. In our view, this law is needed because it will reduce costs for companies and bureaucratic burdens. It will also make life easier for workers, as it will safeguard their interests in accessing employee records. However, it should be noted that this law completely ignores another problem in this respect, which the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out a few months ago in its report. This is about access to pre-1999 employee records from companies that no longer exist today. Their former employees must devote a lot of time and resources to determining who keeps their records. There are cases where documents are in companies that do not have the right authority to do so. The consequences are borne by employees who, according to the current law, the Social Security Office refuses to charge pension benefits because either they receive documents from wrong sources or they lack documentation at all. NIK pointed out that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage should address this problem. Have they taken action? We do not know anything about this, and these changes are expected by Poles. In summary 2017, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska praised him as a great year for the labour market. It's hard to agree with that assessment. In the labour market we have a lot of problems to solve, but we can't hear about the PiS actions in these cases. We are still struggling with the phenomenon of replacing civil law contracts with employment contracts. Our society is getting old. Demographic projections published by the Central Statistical Office are unambiguous. In 2020 nearly 20% of Poles will be 65 years old or older and in the following years this percentage will increase. This threatens to break down the generational exchange in the labour market and the collapse of the pension system in Poland. Therefore, the government's urgent task is to develop a coherent senior policy, which includes: occupational activation of older people. The government knows this, but what does this knowledge mean for Poles and our labour market? The piss has no answer to that question. He decided to reduce the retirement age, which resulted in approximately 173 thousand in 2017. Professionally employed persons have submitted pension applications. These people have disappeared from the labour market, increasing their workforce deficit. This is proof of the complete lack of responsibility of the PiS in labour market policy. Poland is becoming an increasingly attractive place of work for foreigners, especially from countries outside our eastern border. However, their employment involves a lot of bureaucracy and the state administration is inefficient. Entrepreneurs from Wrocław informed me that Dolnośląskie Urząd Wojewódzki needs even a few months to issue a work permit or a temporary stay in Poland. This makes it very difficult for companies to hire foreigners. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The existing Labour Code was adopted in 1974. The date itself indicates that this document requires a major overhaul to adapt the law to the current reality in the labour market. It's a great challenge for which the PiS is responsible. We must remember the simple principle: the less bureaucratic duties and formalities, the more time to work. And from work comes the wealth and strength of the Polish economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u223	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of employee files and their electronicisation. The changes proposed in the government proposal are a step in the right direction. Even when presenting our first position on this issue, I emphasized that near Free and Solidarnia he is a supporter of this project. The current government of Poland focuses on innovation, prefers modern business, and this is based today mainly on electronic documents and the Internet exchange of various kinds of resources. The adaptation of Polish law to these global trends will allow our entrepreneurs to enter even better into the era of digitalization. I have already signaled that the provisions of this law will also reduce the costs of employers in keeping payroll and employee records. I am convinced that the law initiated by the Ministry of Development and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will improve the quality of functioning of Polish companies. I also hope that the changes introduced will reduce the grey zone and increase the revenue of the public finance sector. The proposed law introduces favourable changes in the rights and obligations of the employer and creates excellent conditions for the development of Polish business. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the procedated project and will always support any initiatives that help Poland to be a modern country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u224	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws (prints Nos 2033 and 2132). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I am pleased to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 2132. The Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions provides the legal basis for the functioning of the Commission for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estate, issued in breach of the law. The first reading of the draft law on the amendment of this law took place at the 53rd meeting of the Sejm, where there was a request to reject this project at first reading. On 8 December 2017, the Sejm rejected this request and referred the above draft law to the Legislative Commission. The Legislative Commission considered this proposal at its meeting on 13 December 2017, namely last year. The meeting of the committee lasted almost 5 hours and, in addition to the members of the Legislative Commission, representatives of the government party and legislators took part in the meeting. Many amendments were tabled during the work on the project. The Commission accepted a number of drafting amendments and a number of substantive amendments to the draft submitted. The solutions adopted will enable the Commission to decide on the removal of the legal effects of reprivatisation decisions on the further effects of the reprivatization decision, which may form the basis for both the decision to establish the perpetual use of Warsaw real estate and the decision to transform the perpetual use of that property into property right. Those decisions may then, and should, unless they have irreparable legal effects, be repealed in the same procedure. This is due to the purpose of the committee, which is to reverse the effects of decisions taken in breach of the law. This amendment allows the verification committee to verify the subsequent decisions itself in the context of the case under consideration. The next amendment adopted by the Legislative Commission gives the possibility for the verification committee to impose an obligation on the person who, in bad faith, acquired ownership or right of perpetual use from the person for whom the reprivatisation decision was issued. In practice, this will allow for settlement with entities that purchased Warsaw real estate in bad faith from beneficiaries of reprivatization decisions issued in breach of law. Further amendments adopted give the basis for the reversal by decision of the committee, even if inextricable and unlawful, of the negative effects of the reprivatization decision consisting in the expulsion or eviction of Warsaw real estate tenants after the decision was taken in breach of the law for unauthorised persons. First of all, it imposes on the decision of the owner, m.st. Warsaw or the State Treasury, the obligation to restore to those affected by the actions of beneficiaries faulty decisions to have a dependent property or a relevant part of it, if these persons occupied the property, primarily rented premises, before issuing a reprivatization decision in breach of the law. The following article is inserted: 3a makes clear the application of the provisions on the protection of tenants of Warsaw property in respect of tenants and other persons dealing with real estate, also in cases of final reprivatization decisions before the date of entry into force of the Act. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission also rejected a number of amendments which it considered unreasonable. There was also a broad discussion on the status of the members of the verification commission, and many proposals were made to resolve the existing problem. This is mainly the issue of insurance problems for those on this verification committee, both for Members and non-members. The subject was opened, but not tabled, and no specific amendment was tabled in writing. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law annexed to the report and in accordance with the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit two minority applications at the request of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u226	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. This is print number 2033. As you know, the work of the committee on the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions attracts public attention and arouses great interest, shows the scale of reprivatization pathologies in Warsaw and the mechanisms that allowed them to arise - the negligence of local authorities in Warsaw, the inaction of law enforcement authorities, irresponsible courts. As we know, violations of law have often been accompanied by human harm, because victims of unfair reprivatization, which is how often we say: victims of house cleaners, many tenants, many Warsaw residents. The authorities of Warsaw, and more broadly the Polish countries, were usually indifferent to these injuries. The Commission for the re-privatization of Warsaw real estate was established because the state authorities were not able to effectively prevent the emergence of re-privatization pathologies. Despite the effective action of the committee, the examination of the first months of its work and the provisions of the law which form the basis for its action justify legislative changes in our view. In synthetic terms, it is important to combat the chronicity of proceedings before the committee and to increase citizens' confidence in the committee and its decisions. We welcome the work of the Legislative Commission and the changes adopted during it. I declare that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports further work on the project. At the same time, we believe that the project in some places requires further changes and therefore, on behalf of the club, I am proposing nine amendments which I am handing over to the marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law marked with 2132 sejm print. We all agree that solving problems is the essence of functioning in politics. This means improving something, facilitating it or improving it. We are currently working on a law about which one thing can certainly be said: the scope of constitutional reservations around the so-called. the verification panel is increasing dramatically instead of being wound up. Moreover, as a result of the application of its provisions, any problems will not be resolved, their number will increase significantly. Unfortunately, this is the result when the desire to satisfy one man's political ambitions - in this case the chairman of the committee - takes over reason. For the last month, I have talked about these proposals with many people: lawyers, local government officials or people who know the subject. Only from the media. As they've heard, what an absurd state you're proposing, they've been grabbing their heads. There is no other way to react, as we read about the new rules for entering the Committee's perpetual decisions in the books in relation to third parties who acquired real estate. I'm talking about the new version of the article. 40 laws. At present, after the committee's decision, the court still needs to change the contents of the perpetual books. If the person concerned is to be removed from them, he may deny it in court. It is an obvious guarantee that the person who bought the apartment, not knowing that the building in which it is located, is standing on illegally privatised land, will not be deprived of this apartment. What's it gonna be like after the shift? Following the decision by the verification committee, the change in content in the perpetual books, i.e. the deletion of the property rights of a third party, is to be done on the principle of automation. Of course, in a moment on the platform, from this place, a representative of the Ministry will curse reality and say that it is not, not the intention of the projector. But you know very well that the proposed security referred to in the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, i.e., acting in good faith at the time of acquisition, will be illusory protection. The deletion is intended to take place in perpetual accounting proceedings, i.e. in formal proceedings where a third party has no means of demonstrating an effective acquisition of ownership. Thus, the decisions of the committee, which are purely political in nature, will decide on the ownership of houses and apartments of thousands of Poles who had absolutely no contact with the decisions of reprivatization. After all, the records of the perpetual books will determine the legal status of the property and are covered by the presumption of reliability. In short, the decisions of the committee in relation to third parties, completely innocent, will be practically expropriation, because it is impossible to describe a situation where the State restricts the right of ownership of the property to the citizen. However, such situations are already taking place today, and as a result of the proposed changes, the circle of these people will only be significantly expanded. I'll remind you here, Art. 64 Constitution, according to which the Republic protects property and this protection is equal for all, as well as Article. 21 of the Constitution, which states that the Republic protects property and expropriation is admissible only if it is carried out for public purposes and for fair compensation. Therefore, once again, contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law and contrary to common sense, you are pushing for solutions which have only political justification. Another of the proposed absurdities concerns the new rules of summoning the parties and witnesses to the hearing. Anyone who has ever been in contact with an office or court knows that if he is to appear, he receives by registered letter an appropriate call from which the content and details of this appointment are derived. The so-called verse, i.e. the receipt by the addressee, is proof that the consignment was actually delivered, and this is in the case file as evidence. And it's obvious, it's pretty obvious. This procedure takes a while, but at least it is certain that the witness has been informed of the case effectively. This obviousness is not so obvious to the Ministry of Justice. The summoning of witnesses to the hearing under the new rules will be carried out through the so-called. notices in the Public Information Bulletin on the website of the Ministry of Justice. In general, then, anyone who knows the person who bought the property in Warsaw in the last dozen years should check the website of the Ministry of Justice regularly. And the fork will be a witness because a friend bought an apartment on the ground that the developer purchased from someone who in the 1990s got this land as a result of a return decision. Moreover, after 7 days from the date of such announcement, there will be a presumption that such a witness has been effectively requested for this hearing. I understand that such methods can be applied to those who are already taking part in the proceedings and are aware that they can be called to this hearing, while the use of such a method actually in relation to a dozen million of our citizens creates an absolute legal absurdity and, as far as the future is concerned, also actual. High Izbo! The limited debate time allows me only to address these most serious reservations. In view of the critical assessment of the bill, the Civic Platform Club applies for rejection of the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at second reading. We also make a number of amendments to be considered if the rejection request is not accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u230	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the report of the Legislative Commission of the Republic of Poland on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws, print No. 2132. We discussed the project in the first reading. I then presented the general position of the club regarding the project itself, so I will not repeat it now. This is a project aimed at ensuring the smooth functioning of the committee or improving the functioning of the committee already in operation, which aims to bridge certain gaps that have arisen during the operation of the committee. The effect of changes designed in the law is to be e.g. to increase the access of committees to the documents they need in the course of their proceedings or to ensure the mobilisation of fines in cases of infringement. It seems that the submission records are very much in the direction indicated and are a good solution. We have this feeling that we are referring to a constitution that says that the Republic is on the basis of protection of property rights, and she, to be honest, probably never stood on it at all. How else to call it, if there are people who were robbed once after the war, and the second time they were robbed by the Polish state, selling illegal properties or fictitiously reprivatizing them and selling them to unauthorized persons? So this is a pathological situation that requires very radical steps and repairs. A number of amendments were tabled during the committee's work. We as a Kukiz club15 have made five such amendments. Three of them were accepted by the committee, and two, unfortunately, are not, which we regret, but we will ask the High Sejm to lean on them during the third reading, because they will be minority proposals. Our amendments - those accepted by the committee - concerned, for example, the removal of a request for review by the committee. Here we justify this in such a way that the extraordinary nature of the procedure, which consists in the supervisory examination of the case already examined at the level of several instances, makes adding another degree of self-control excessive, is unnecessary, because it extends the procedure excessively. After all, the parties may lodge a complaint with an independent administrative court for all decisions of the committee. A request for review would only delay the possibility of requesting judicial review. Another change is the matching of the terminology used in section IVa of k.p.a. This applies, for example, to the term " Fines', which is used in the Act, and in our opinion, the committee has divided this sentence - but the features of this use suggest that we are dealing with a financial penalty. Two requests which were not accepted by the committee concerned two things. The first is to clarify the principle of liability of officials whose actions or omissions have led to damage to the Treasury or the municipality. The Commission's work so far has shown the need to lay down the rules for determining the maximum liability of persons acting unintentionally. We believe that these officials should be held accountable. The second amendment, unfortunately not accepted, concerned the amendment proposed in the draft rule that, 7 days after the announcement of the call in BIP, witnesses and parties are effectively called to the hearing. Here, in our opinion, such a solution is a manifestation of a breach of the principle of conduct in a manner which inspires the confidence of its participants in public authority. All potential witnesses and potential parties to several thousand proceedings, even before the committee, are unable to follow the Public Information Bulletin every day. Here it can also be emphasized that an important part of the witnesses and their parties, standing before the committee, are the elderly, so that this formula of effective notification seems very questionable. In addition to the amendments previously tabled, we also now, during the second reading, make another additional amendment, which we believe will improve the quality of the legislation, improve the functioning of the committee. This amendment introduces a limitation period of 15 years after the infringement or the consequences of the infringement. Actions referred to in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 6 on its basis assumes the long-term effects of the infringement and here exemplifications are, for example, systematic and informal evictions on the pavement of older people, the destruction of technical installations, endless renovations of common parts or landfills on the stairwell. The experience of the work of the authorities shows that the period from the date of the infringement of the right to the continuous occurrence of its effects goes beyond the framework set out in Section IVa (a). On the other hand, the absence of any regular period of punishment also raises doubts. So that in general we support the change of this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because they improve the work of the committee. We're making an additional amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws, prints No 2033 and 2132. The Modern Club already at the first law concerning the so-called. the verification panel claimed that this law is destroying the legal system, contradicting the three divisions of power, and it is an unconstitutional law that should end up in a basket. But we're used to it, Minister, that laws that come out of the Ministry of Justice, unfortunately, have little to do with, have nothing to do with law or justice. The same is true of this amendment. I am a little surprised that the law doctor who presented the Law and Justice position spoke of the harm caused by wild reprivatisation, but did not pay attention to the errors, simply the unconstitutionality and the violation of the law by this law, because the violation of property rights in this way is unacceptable. The legal deficiencies in this bill are enormous, and somehow you haven't noticed. You only referred to the social aspect. I can only say yes and quote some words: Third parties will be deprived of any legal protection in respect of property rights, which will actually constitute expropriation. The social and financial impact of such regulation will be enormous. The President of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Professor Leszek Bosek, warns in his opinion that, from day to day of the family who bought apartments on credit from third parties who bought them from persons subject to a revoked reprivatization decision, they will be deprived of their ownership under this provision. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this is the person who is bound, who has been appointed by the Government of Law and Justice. So you don't listen to objective experts, you don't even listen to experts who come from your group anymore. It simply demonstrates the arrogance and impudence of law-making. Let me put it this way: what you've done is worse than what the communists did. You are better than the communists, because the Bierut decree allowed for compensation for the property taken away, or seeking to obtain the right of perpetual use of the property. The State has not foreseen such an eventuality, and unfortunately the consequences can be very serious. Many people will stay with loans on their head, but without housing - admits Prof. Ewa Łętowska, former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, and adds that they are right, who point out that the new provision in the law on the verification commission will lead to fatal economic consequences. The defendants will apply for damages, and the state will have to pay them. So, Minister? Will you feel responsible to return the money that the Treasury will have to pay in connection with the decisions you make? I know you're running an election campaign for the election to be President of Warsaw, but why at the expense of many people and many apartment owners who may lose their property day by day. This is simply unacceptable, it is a scandal. It's really embarrassing that someone could come up with these kinds of solutions. To all this, the bill is subject to your expectations to meet your expectations and to your success in bringing the president before the committee. There is a matter of determining and raising the amount of penalties for non-compliance, and it is to allow the possibility of bringing people under duress before the Minister. It's just a sign that you've made a bill just to succeed again. If this is the law and justice of this government, feel sorry for God. Bottom line, Minister, I'd like to say that you should be ashamed that something like this has come out of the feathers of people from the Ministry of Justice. You should seek to withdraw this project and prepare another one as soon as possible. Well, it's not gonna make things any better, because we still think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this committee is acting illegally and it is a political huck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u234	Thank you. Mr Eugeniusz Kłopotek, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is not good if the institutions set up for this are failing in a democratic legal state and a revolutionary entity, which is undoubtedly a verification committee, must be set up. On the other hand, if we look objectively, which I stress, the effects of this committee's work, perhaps this is the only way at the moment to correct the wrong, to effectively bring to justice those who have abandoned their duties, neglected or even committed crimes. By the way, this committee has been working for three or four months now, if I remember correctly, since she started her job. Please see that until now no one, even though my Parliamentary Club of the Polish Ice Party maintains constitutional doubts, unless I am mistaken or have not noticed, has filed a complaint in this matter with the Constitutional Tribunal. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the current Constitutional Tribunal has in the near past just been thrown over, perhaps therefore not. However, given that this committee, in doing so to the institutions of the state, shows quite significant, for some, even a frightening scale of negligence and irregularities, we give this project as the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party a green light. It can also be seen that some entities, including individuals, are trying to avoid being present by this committee at all costs and that, in my opinion, they should stand or not cooperate with the committee. In this situation, giving additional legal instruments, in spite of constitutional doubts, as I stress once again, we consider it appropriate and we will support this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u236	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Perpetual Book Court is to enter reprivatization alerts automatically. It may therefore be that, from day to day, families living in reprivatized buildings may be in serious trouble. If someone bought an apartment in a block on a re-privatized land, they'd be deprived of it even if they didn't know it. Third parties will be deprived of any legal protection in respect of property rights. It'll be their expropriation. The Commission is working for the public, boasting a profit for the State Treasury, i.e. property from real estate that has not actually been recovered. Propaganda and stripes on public television are important. I would like to ask if the changes that do not bring anything so far are intended only to undermine honest citizens. That's your main goal? This is a very bad project that should be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u238	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the previous statements, I could not sit on the ground and I would like to ask the total opposition, but also the Minister, because I think it is necessary to repair the harm that was done not only to Warsaw, but also to many other cities in Poland, I would like to ask the Minister how many people did not survive, how many people had their heart broken, how many people had been hurt by taking their homes, and had to flee to the gazebos, to the plot, after the cellars, to seek help from their families. When I hear this total opposition, it scares me. Minister! Will we learn about these moral losses, the loss of life by some people? Because this is an outrage - the word "scandal" is hardly said - so that these people in the 21st century will be harmed, thrown out for business, for money, and today they find defenders. You really have to be a heartless man to say that, defend the party battles instead of the people who have been wronged. You really have to take it with your heart, and I think it's a good job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You do, Minister, and the whole committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no way to ignore these statements. I wanted to say that the Modern Club has always argued that it is really necessary to complete the analysis of what happened when it comes to reprivatization in Warsaw. If it's extended to other cities, that's for sure. We believe that those responsible for scandalous reprivatisation should be held accountable and that the harm caused to people who have lost their homes should be corrected. It just can't be that one person's harm is repaired by another person's injury. That's what my speech was about. All this time we are in favour of actually bringing this to an explanation, and the fact that it was a reprivatization affair and that the representatives of the capital city of Warsaw, the city office, are responsible for it, absolutely no one from the Modern side is questioning. However, if I had heard well before this committee was set up, what this committee was to do and how it was to function, it was said that it was to speed up the adoption of all decisions which, due to the delay in proceedings in the courts, should be issued quickly. I have a question for the Minister. Please tell me which decisions of the verification committee have already been deemed final and final, how many such decisions have been valid and are final decisions which no longer have any appeal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u242	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u243	Dear Marshal, High Seym! A few questions have been asked. First of all, the question of the Member of the Civic Platform, which concerned the so-called 'Citizen Platform'. an entry in the eternal books. At the same time, it was combined with the club speeches of some opposition representatives suggesting that the committee would expropriate someone or harm innocent people. High Seym! Please pay attention to the work of the committee so far. To date, the Commission has never harmed any human being, on the contrary - many people have given hope and have made sense in this complex legal reality. Since we are talking in a revised project about entries in the perpetual book, remember - in my opinion you are forgetting this by suggesting to us that we will expropriate anyone - that this entry can only be made if the committee finds that there are no irreversible legal consequences. If there are irreversible legal effects, i.e. a third party bought an apartment, then the committee will not be able to use the article. 40 of this law. Therefore, this argument is completely unfounded. [[But where is it written?]] This is written in this amendment. [[But it's not written down.]] No, my dear Mr Meysztowicz, because the committee can make a decision - please check - only in the manner of Article. 29, if memory doesn't confuse me, and art. 30 and only the derivative is the use of Article. 40, but if it does not issue a decision in this mode, i.e. there are no irreversible legal effects, it cannot benefit from this unless someone acted in bad faith. That's the fundamental difference. If you follow up on the committee's decisions so far, please note that in the case of Noakowski, although the committee stated that there was no doubt that this tenement was taken over by simply a scam - I apologize for this language - the people who acquired the property in this tenement were not affected in any way by the decisions of the committee because the committee found that there were irreversible legal effects. Similarly, the committee acted on the property at Nabielak 9. She also said that there are irreversible legal effects, which is why people who have acquired apartments in this building are safe and will continue to be safe. This provision concerns a situation where there are reversible legal effects, for example. The trader sold the claim to himself, as was the case for example. in the case of ul. A hayline or a former hive. A hayseed, or today one of the most important fragments in this part of Europe at all, i.e. en. The parade. This is, by the way, the answer to your question, Mr President, about the effectiveness of the committee's work. The Commission obtained an effective entry in the perpetual books here, changed this and instead, it is the capital city of Warsaw that is already registered there, which can own this property. Exactly the same is true in the case of hives. Hard, in part it is so in the case of the famous street. I'm a 70-year-old kid. In the case of ul. Harder - as I said - the city even planned funds in the budget to rebuild an educational establishment there. Does it work? It's working. Member of the Kukiz Club15 asked what group of people were harmed as a result of reprivatization. We don't have it precisely calculated, so we're going to use numbers that work in public space. We know it was close to $4.5,000. reprivatization, including reprivatization... Sorry, real estate. The reprivatisation concerned so much real estate. In this case it happened that one tenement is e.g. a tenement, just like in the case of Noakowski, where 150 families lived, which is like a small village. If you count it, if you count the $4.5,000. count through such large houses in the center of the city, this is a really large number, counted in tens of thousands in Warsaw, which we can talk about calmly. About the decision... I think these are the most important elements. Furthermore, I would like to tell the High Sejm that there is no such threat that we have mentioned here that there is no possibility that there will be no judicial review of the decisions of the committee in any situation. Of course, remember that before the committee there are all those who have been parties to administrative proceedings so far, so they have full rights, first of all. Secondly, any committee decision can be appealed to - at the beginning to the committee, then to the NSA, then of course to the NSA. Therefore, there is a full right to benefit from these measures, even in the context of the amended rules which concern only and exclusively the perpetual accounting procedure. Every time, for example. The administrative court considers that the committee's decision was wrong and will change it, of course the entry in the perpetual accounting procedure is changing at the same time. That is also why there is no such threat as you mentioned. However, yes, it will improve and improve the work of the committee. I don't have to tell you, I'm sure you've heard that, unfortunately, there are a lot of indications that such fair reprivatizations have been limited. And these are not even my words, but Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, the President of Warsaw, who recently carried out an audit and said - she, Madam President herself said - that probably about 70% The reprivatization was wrong because there was an organized criminal group. That's why we have to deal with this kind of matter. Hence these extraordinary measures, which so far are effective and working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u244	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, I am to be thanked for this work of our committee, this hard work, because the Minister answered most of the questions. Here, as in the committee, certain views on whether this committee is needed or not have been challenged. We firmly believe that the committee is needed and expected not by hundreds, but by thousands of people who have been wronged. And this project, which we are looking at, is mainly intended to improve, is yet to improve the work of the verification commission and give the instruments of this committee - these instruments, which so far lacked it, to work even better, more effectively, for the good of the people, for the good of the Warsaw people in this case, to work. Thanks again for the job. Today we have received new amendments so that this work will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u246	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Legislative Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 8:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 minutes 40 hours 20 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in the field of family legal trade under European Union law and international agreements (prints No 1827 and 1927). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements, print No 1827. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights considered the draft at its meetings on 12 and 13 December 2017 and the work in the committee was preceded by work in the subcommittee dealing with this particular project. I will briefly point out that the project crystallises the powers of the Central Authority, which is the Minister of Justice, from the point of view of the execution of several international acts, in particular the Hague Convention, which indicates the way in which the so-called. matters relating to parental authority, in international matters in this respect. The Act sets out solutions that accurately indicate the procedure that will apply in this respect. A number of changes aim to ensure that the welfare of children is taken into account in the proceedings and that it is guaranteed at every stage of the procedure. That's the way it is with this project. It indicates, first, the specific district courts which will consider these proceedings, very complex, requiring detailed knowledge and experience in this area. Secondly, it points to one appeal court which will deal with appeals, appeals against those judgments, orders at first instance. Importantly, the execution will only be subject to a final decision and, moreover, after consideration of the cassation action against the final decision. Moreover, the powers of the central authority are clearly defined from the initial point of view of the procedure, i.e. the receipt of the request, its formal verification, the notification of the parties and the activation of the entire mechanisms and tools to be used in order to enable proceedings to be carried out. On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, of course, I strongly recommend this proposal. The Commission, of course, proposes that the draft be adopted in accordance with the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u248	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr. Mark Michalak's Child Rights Officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u249	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In view of the upcoming work of the Sejm on the Government's draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in the field of family legal trade under European Union law and international agreements, I would like to share with the High Chamber the comments of the Ombudsman on the proposed regulations. I welcome the fact that this proposal is in line with many requests made by the Ombudsman for the rights of the child for 9 years. One of them was to restore the possibility to challenge the Supreme Court's final judgments based on the provisions of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of the Abduction of a Child Abroad. I am very pleased about this because for many years I have been persistently seeking to restore the legal status before 2000 and to extend the catalogue of cases for which a cassation complaint in civil matters is entitled to be dealt with on the basis of the regulations contained in this international agreement. Starting in 2011, I directed six times the Advocate General's speeches first to the Minister of Justice, then to the President of the Republic of Poland, and then again to the Minister of Justice asking for legislative work to be taken on the amendment of the article. 519 § 2 Code of Civil Procedure. At the time, I pointed out that my observations showed that the courts, following the principle of speed of proceedings, did not sufficiently examine whether there were grounds for refusing a child to reside in the country of permanent residence in question - art. 13 lit. b of the Convention. I also argued that in the course of proceedings under the Hague Convention, in many cases there was a breach of substantive law by its misinterpretation or misuse. In the event of such shortcomings being detected at the stage of the proceedings, I reported the Ombudsman's involvement in the case in order to eliminate them. Unfortunately, such infringements were also disclosed after the judgment of the Court of First Instance, which could no longer be effectively challenged, since, under the applicable rules, there was no appeal against it. In my view, the introduction of the Judit Review of the Supreme Court in relation to the judgments given under the Hague Convention is a desirable and fully legitimate solution which will help to eliminate from the legal market faulty judicial decisions concerning such important issues as the country in which the child will reside. On the other hand, my concerns are raised by the proposed deadline for filing a cassation complaint in such cases. In my view, it is too short and inadequate for reality. According to the bill submitted, the Advocate General, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, will be able to file a cassation complaint within 2 months of the date of the order's validity. During the work of this draft law in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Ombudsman pointed out the need to extend this period to at least 3 months from the date of the decision. As the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, I take the view that acceptance of the current proposal may make it much more difficult and even prevent the lodging of a cassation complaint because of, at least, the late notification of the persons entitled to file a valid case by the person concerned. In my experience, I also know that the mere transfer of the file by the court and their in-depth analysis require a time which, in the event of maintaining a two-month period for filing a cassation complaint, could simply be insufficient. Therefore, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider my proposal and to make an amendment which takes into account the extension of the deadline for lodging a cassation complaint to at least 3 months from the date on which the order was valid. Alternatively, I would like to consider the introduction into the draft law of the principle that a two-month period for lodging a cassation complaint will begin its course from the date of service to the party of the judgment with justification. Regardless of the above, I strongly hope that thanks to regulations such as those provided for in the draft law, the Polish courts, based on the judicial authority of the Supreme Court, will work out a uniform interpretation of the provisions of the Convention, in accordance with the best interests of the child. The lack of this instrument may in previous years have resulted in the legal circulation of defective decisions causing serious physical and mental damage to the minor's further psychophysical development as a result of the birth of a child from Poland. In my view, the single judicial line of the Supreme Court in matters of the Hague Convention will become a guarantee of legal certainty, protecting individuals from arbitrary decisions and contributing to the protection of the child's welfare. Another request of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, which was reflected in the Government's draft law, is to waive the immediate enforceability of the provisions of the first instance in matters pending under the Hague Convention. The amendment is a response to the need to amend the Article, which I have repeatedly notified. 579 of the Civil Procedure Code, which governs the suspension of the enforceability of the provisions issued by the court of custody, by extending the catalogue of those provisions to a decision on the return of illegally kidnapped children to their habitual residence. I addressed my first speech to the Minister of Justice in 2009. The proposed amendment will protect children from the dramatic consequences of their parents' decisions, who were forced to hide with their children in anticipation of the final settlement of the case by the court of appeal without being able to count on the full duality of judicial proceedings. In such situations, children were often deprived of medical care, did not fulfil their schooling obligations, nor did they have any contact with their peers. In my view, the right to two-instant legal proceedings guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland cannot be limited to its formal dimension - the lodging of an appeal. This law materializes in the possibility of a parent's real participation, but above all the child's participation in the ongoing proceedings in which their rights are decided. In the event of an unlawful decision being enforced, which could subsequently be repealed or amended as a result of a review by the Court of First Instance, the child is exposed to unnecessary travel to another country, often very distant geographically and culturally, to a change in the current environment, and sometimes to a loss of contact with the parent with whom he has a strong emotional relationship. Significantly, the enforceability of an unlawful judgment of the Court of First Instance which results in the return of the child to the country of permanent residence deprives the court of appeal of the possibility of supplementing the evidence with evidence from the hearing of the child, which has its source in Article. 72. 3 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, or evidence from the opinions of the judicial experts. An example of the intervention of the Ombudsman on a case decided on the basis of the Hague Convention, in which the child was issued to the country of permanent residence on the basis of an unlawful decision of the Court of First Instance, is the case of the son of a Dutch citizen and a Polish citizen. By ordering the child's return to the Netherlands, the court required the mother to deliver the boy within 7 days of the decision. Although the minor's mother brought an appeal, it did not halt the enforceability of the order and did not prevent the forced removal of the child's mother and the transfer of it to the father with whom the minor returned to the Netherlands. A detailed analysis of the case file indicated that the evidence was incomplete, in particular because no evidence was obtained in the course of the proceedings at first instance to establish the current mental state of the boy. As a result, there was a situation in which the court of appeal was not able to personally carry out evidence of hearing the boy and knowing his position regarding his return to Poland or further residence in the Netherlands. In view of the above, I have notified the Ombudsman's participation in the case in question, requesting evidence from an expert psychologist's opinion. According to the above, the immediate feasibility of unlawful judgments in matters of the Hague Convention raises many problems of evidence and, most importantly, exposes the child to unwanted trauma. For these reasons, I was very pleased and satisfied that the projectors, taking into account the Ombudsman's repeated appeals on this subject for years, accepted the proposed solutions. I would like to express my gratitude to the Minister of Justice and to the members of the subcommittee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights who are involved in the work on this draft law for agreeing to the proposed amendment of the article. 598 § 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure and the introduction of a rule limiting the application of compulsory suspension of proceedings only to situations where proceedings conducted under the Hague Convention are pending before designated courts in Poland. It is apparent from the observations made by the Ombudsman that the Polish courts, after having been informed of the opening of proceedings under the Hague Convention abroad, had doubts as to whether, in such a situation, they should suspend the care proceedings taking place in our country, or should proceed further with a view to a substantive examination of the case. Due to numerous complaints from parents questioning the practice of Polish courts, the issues raised have become of interest to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child and have been carefully analysed. For this purpose, I asked selected appeals courts in Poland to examine the above mentioned. issues and an indication of how in such cases the courts in the area of jurisdiction of individual appeals have ruled. The analysis of the information obtained from the different appeals courts showed that the rules contained in the Code of Civil Procedure were not uniform in conjunction with Article. 16 of the Hague Convention. The amendment also responds to the expectations of judges ruling in the family departments and minors who share the view that Article. 598 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code is imprecise and does not clearly indicate whether it is a procedure under the Hague Convention in Poland or abroad. The clarification of this provision will resolve all doubts in this regard. To conclude my speech, I would like to stress that the proposed bill has the opportunity to contribute to the fuller protection of the rights of the child. As a spokesperson for the rights of the child, I believe that the new provisions that take into account the proposed proposals will not only be transparent and understandable, but will above all serve to protect the highest value - the good of the child. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take over and report the amendments I have tabled that will improve the protection of the child's well-being, as reflected in the proposed draft law in print 1872. I ask the High House to pass it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u250	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u251	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice maintains its positive assessment of the government draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central body in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. This project meets social expectations. Let me just mention that, for over 25 years, we have not had a law that regulates matters under the Hague Convention. When the request was in effect in this mode, the case was conducted customarily, there were no solutions developed that would accurately determine the order of the steps to be taken. These are mostly parental abduction cases, but also caring and maintenance cases. The government project organizes them, directly influencing four existing laws: the Code of Civil Procedure, the Police Act, the Law on Family Support and foster care and the Law on Opinional Teams of Experts. The overarching objective of the project is to systematicise the powers and responsibilities of the central authority, the Minister of Justice. The law allows citizens to obtain exemption from costs. The Minister may grant such an exemption. The project also introduced a mandate for the Minister of Justice to obtain information on the whereabouts of the child also through the Police. These are very sensitive issues, and the proceedings determine the future of these children, such as the issue of giving children after a judgment given at first instance. Up to now, after a judgment given at first instance, a child could have left our country, been transported to another country, which made it very complicated. The ban imposed on the child's departure until a final decision is reached guarantees the protection of his interests and stabilizes the course of such difficult proceedings. The role of Minister of Justice, which has been laid down in the Act, makes him an intermediary in this proceeding. A novelty with regard to the ruling procedure itself is the specialization provided for in the judiciary, which consists in identifying specific district courts which will deal with cases under the Hague Convention. A single appeal court shall be introduced to deal with all cases at the appeal court. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act simplifies and simplifies the difficult legal regulations that have been introduced in connection with the abduction of the child, making them more humane. It introduces an emergency appeal in the form of a cassation complaint which will be served by the prosecutor general. The establishment of this extraordinary remedy is to meet the expectations of the Ombudsman, the ombudsman, who also has the right to lodge a cassation complaint. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes this project, but we wanted to propose an amendment aimed at identifying the monitoring body for the use of the expenditure limit referred to in Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, in accordance with the requirements of the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my views on the committee's report on the draft act on the implementation of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. First of all, it should be pointed out that this law is an implementing law for acts of international law which regulate matters relating to the handling of applications for children kidnapped and held abroad. The purpose of this law is to ensure that procedures in these very difficult and specific situations are carried out with the least harm to the child, so that procedures relating to the handling of these cases are transparent, but above all efficient. This is why regulations are being introduced, which will certainly help to speed up the examination of these cases. Let us remember that they touch children directly. In view of their well-being, this had to be improved and simplified, deadlines had to be clearly defined, the responsibilities and powers of the central authority, the jurisdiction of the courts, the determination of custody rights had to be clarified, the rules for submission of applications and the collection of environmental interviews had to be clarified. An important element that can also affect the time, but above all, the proper handling of cases, is the identification of specific courts that will deal with these cases and the identification of a single review court which will deal with appeals. Given the nature of these cases, such specialisation seems appropriate. The bill is certainly expected, changes are necessary, which is why we, of course, support this project as a Platform. At the same time, we also want to make amendments. One of them is important to us, this amendment has already been mentioned by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. It goes on, among other things. just to extend the deadline for filing a cassation complaint. We want this deadline to be three months, so that we hope the High House will support these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u254	Thank you very much. You have a voice, Mrs... No, Mrs Barbara Chrobak is not here. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! Dear Members! I am pleased to present my position on the proposal for a law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Let me remind you that it concerns the so-called. parental abductions and matters related to the issuing of children abroad in situations where, for example, Parents are conflicted and are not able to work out common rules in a reasonable, peaceful way as to where their children are staying and how to raise their children. Today, these issues are dealt with on the basis of the Hague Convention, whose provisions, unfortunately, as it has shown brutally the reality, require additional regulation. The Act is therefore an executive and technical law for the provisions of international law. This law will improve the procedure for the transfer of a child abroad resulting from that convention. Ladies and gentlemen! First, I will say that Poles have been waiting for such a law for a long time. Its absence showed different environments, among others. A spokesperson for the rights of the child. This law introduces solutions that will undoubtedly protect the children's rights more fully and improve their safety. They will also improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of judicial judgments concerning his return abroad or of decisions refusing such return. This law gives strong legal instruments to react in cases of taking a child away from a Polish citizen abroad or when the safety of the child is at risk. As we know, opening the borders and belonging to the European Union has made many Poles living and working on emigration today. She also enters into formal or informal relationships abroad, starts families and often has offspring with nationals of other countries. As is the case in life, such relationships are also falling apart, and parents, without regard for the child's welfare, begin to fight for them and to rip them out, kidnap them, or hinder contact with them. As a result, we have learned this from the media many times. The scale of the phenomenon is not small, and the problem is growing. So it is time to settle this issue. After implementation of the proposed changes, 11 specialized district courts from the largest Polish cities will be dealt with in matters related to the issue of children abroad, while appeals - one court for the whole country, is the District Court in Warsaw. This solution seems appropriate given that embassies of all countries are located in the capital, so it will be easier to communicate and flow information between different decision-making centres of different countries. The law also designates a central authority, there are no changes, it remains the Ministry of Justice, but the scope of its powers, responsibilities, degree of mediation, participation in such proceedings has been largely clarified, of course, on the basis of the Hague Convention. Most of the changes are technical and legislative, but the minister has been given serious powers. It shall inform the person whose application concerns the person concerned to inform the party concerned of the proceedings under investigation. There are also technical guidelines that will allow the Minister of Justice to take action. In addition, he will have an overview of all cases that are ongoing or ongoing in this mode, as well as the competence to establish addresses and provide information. In the light of the new provisions, the Minister is a sort of intermediary in this procedure, but he also has numerous powers that facilitate the procedure and make it more transparent and, most importantly, more objective. The project envisages defining the modalities for collecting data on potential foster families and the rules for transferring children to foster care from abroad. This will speed up the course of proceedings and allow them to be identified more professionally. We welcome the provision that restores the possibility for the Prosecutor-General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child to file a cassation complaint with the Supreme Court in cases of unlawful abduction or detention of the child. The most modern is also in favour of extending this term, to the introduction of the 3-month deadline. I will repeat with Mark Michalak, the spokesperson for the rights of the child: thanks to such regulations, it is hoped that the Polish courts, based on the judicial authority of the Supreme Court, will work out a uniform interpretation of the provisions of the Convention, consistent with the best interests of the child. A commendable solution is also a record of a withdrawal from [[♪ The bell ♪]] immediate enforcement of decisions given at first instance in cases pending under the 1980 Hague Convention. This will only be possible after the judgment has been enforced and thus after the use of the appeal route. In conclusion, the Modern Members' Club supports the introduction of a law on the exercise of certain functions of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk gave his position to the club in writing. Let's get to the questions. Would anyone like to speak up? Come on in. If not, I'm closing the list. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor. Time - one and a half minutes. There is no Member. This is Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Statistics clearly indicate that the number of applications under the Hague Convention is increasing systematically. The need to regulate these issues is very big and very urgent, especially as more and more relationships are international unions and these problems are increasing. It is particularly expected to improve the enforcement of decisions to take the child away. Such complaints are often sent to our parliamentary offices. There is a serious problem as well as how quickly they can be recognized. I think this bill, when the bill comes into force, will make it easier to deal with and solve such problems. And I have a question: How much is behind, waiting to be investigated in court? Will cases not recognized or unfinished be referred to one court, as envisaged by the bill, or will they be completed in the current procedure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u258	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for many warm words, Mr Spokesperson, of course, which have been spoken from this speaker. It actually shows that this bill just makes sense. It is a pity, and here I agree with you, that such a law was no longer in existence years ago, because perhaps there would not be so many dramatic cases that we have dealt with, as you know, Mr Spokesman, we know Members, as we know in the Central Authority, the Ministry of Justice. There may indeed have been errors in the proceedings. We were the most lacking in specialised judges, as were prosecutors, lawyers and lawyers, who specialize in these kinds of cases, which are very difficult matters when it comes to matter, because they combine several different areas of law. That's why this specialization was advisable. It's a pity it wasn't made many years ago, but we're fixing this mistake. With regard to these amendments, the proposals or suggestions made by this speaker, Mr Spokesperson, and also the honourable Member indicated the deadline for bringing a cassation complaint. The fact is that we have adopted such an instrument because we know very well, Mr Spokesman, we know that, in the Ministry of Justice, we know that there are situations where an extraordinary legal measure is needed. We're powerless sometimes. The Minister of Justice was powerless in these situations because he didn't have the instrument that we are actually giving today. Of course, there's a question about that term. You know that these matters are primarily characterised by the fact that they should be dealt with very quickly. We know that very well. We cannot prolong this procedure. Therefore, we cannot agree, with all our openness, to the proposal you are making regarding the extension of this deadline. Please bear in mind that this law itself will impose certain deadlines, we impose certain rigors on ourselves. It seems that there is no justification for extending this deadline, for example for this reason, please note that the justification is prepared ex officio. There is no need to submit proposals on this matter, as is customary, which also shortens the deadline. One more thing, though, is that the judges are going to do it, and that's what the specialized judges are going to do. I think the margin of error will be greatly minimized. And that's one thing. Of course, there's also so-called. an emergency complaint, which you know very well about, which we have adopted. In such exceptional situations, under certain conditions, I do not want to enter into this because, of course, we have recently passed a law concerning the Supreme Court, such an emergency complaint will also be possible, although I hope that those difficult situations which will require an emergency measure will not be too much. I hope there won't be any, however, that this specialization will cause that there will be no grounds for filing such a cassation complaint. I am talking here about both the Attorney General and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child and the Ombudsman of civil rights, i.e. those who are entitled. As regards the amendment which was tabled by the Law and Justice Club, we agree with it. Indeed, an expenditure rule has been introduced. Some annual amounts have been adopted, which we should not exceed within a certain period of time. From the point of view of the Public Finance Act and the application of certain rigours concerning public finances, the introduction of this mechanism was necessary. On the other hand, there was no listed entity that would actually control how much money is spent during the year. That's why the family ministry should be here. And we're all inclined to do that. I would like to remind you that, in the case of judicial or official posts, these costs concern a different provision of this project and that the Ministry of Justice is the authority responsible for the audit. Someone's got to control it. The Ministry of the Family has complete knowledge of this. It's about the cost of placing children in foster care or bringing them from abroad. This is a very important thing. As regards Mrs Czernow's question, I have here any problem with the answer to this question, because you ask how many such cases are overdue. We'd have to get this data from the courts that are handling it today. I'll remind you, it's a district court. However, as for the department that handles these cases at the Ministry of Justice, we do not have any backlogs here. We are trying because these proceedings, these cases, should be resolved very quickly, so that, in fact, these cases are quickly referred to court or... If there are any mediations, the specific activities of the central authority shall be undertaken as soon as possible. On the other hand, such matters may take a long time. I'm afraid so. They should last for a short time, because their speed is characteristic of these proceedings, because it is a very rapid resolution. But unfortunately, a skilled lawyer tries to prolong the maximum. It is clear from the point of view of the Hague Convention that this may have consequences, from the point of view of mental issues concerning, for example, a child in a given country and a possible return to his former place. So here I can't answer your question about what this situation is like. On the other hand, as far as this court is concerned, I don't know if I got it right. This is about the Warsaw court, isn't it, District Court? That's what you asked me if... [[No. I asked if these things started...]] Uh-huh. Those that have been initiated will be settled according to the existing rules. I understand that I have satisfied you with the answer. [[Medium.]] No, it could be either yes or yes, so I'm saying it's according to the current legal status. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I only wanted to address these demands from the Ombudsman on the subject of this deadline in particular. Of course, we have considered this issue very widely in the subcommittee as well as in the committee. The interests of the most important person in this course must be weighed, namely the welfare of the child and the speed of conduct. It is often the case, as you pointed out, that even the expectation of a final decision in cases where an unlawful judgment was already the basis for enforcement caused certain turbulence in the form of non-use of medical care. So the same reasons affect today's design in such a way as to give a chance to bring an erasation, but at the same time not to extend this term over measure. That's why it's a compromise. Of course, it would be much more convenient for all eligible entities to make this deadline longer. But these are exceptional actions related at least to the stress of the child, and often also to suffering and difficult situations. So it is worth providing this appeal, but at the same time minimising the deadline within which it can be filed, because it is important not to prolong this time here either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u262	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in the field of legal trade in family matters under European Union law and international agreements, print Nos 1827 and 1927. The aim of this project is to improve the protection of the child's well-being and to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of judicial decisions concerning his or her return abroad or of decisions refusing such return. The government project provides that in the case of a case for the issue of a child abroad it will remain in Poland at least until the appeal hearing. Judgments of the court will be executed as soon as they are enforced. At least because the proposal also introduces a cassation complaint against decisions to take the child away. It can be brought to the Supreme Court by the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. Today, the provisions of the Children's Courts are enforced when they are announced, after the first instance, although the 1980 Hague Convention does not require this. Applications for the issue of children from Poland will be dealt with in the first instance by 11 specialised district courts having 6 weeks to issue a ruling. Also 6 weeks will have the Court of Appeal in Warsaw ruling in the second instance. Today, when regional courts are ruling in the first instance throughout the country, it takes more than a year - to the detriment of the stability of the child's life. Importantly, in regional courts, judges often meet with this category of cases for the first time. In all such cases, the parties will have to be represented by representatives, and when Polish parents cannot afford it, they will get it from the office, which will improve the procedures. It will also be possible to organise cross-border mediation between the parties. The Minister of Justice will be able to ask the courts to provide all information on the state of the proceedings and the courts will have to respond to him immediately. If an environmental interview is required, the courts will have 4 weeks to respond. The Polish Police will gain a new right - they will be able to collect and process, i.e. to use personal data of the persons concerned by the request to take the child away, and those who have kept them or hid them. The Treasury will cover the costs of translating applications submitted to foreign courts and institutions by Polish parents fighting for children when they prove that they cannot afford them. Unfortunately, this does not apply to Polish parents who are abroad and are taking legal action there. The powers of the Minister of Justice to take children away from Polish parents living in other countries by the authorities there will be much less. If a foreign court agrees that children taken from Poles will be transferred to a foster family in Poland, the minister will be able to direct applications to regional courts for the establishment of foster care in our country. The courts must respond within 21 days. After a positive response, the costs of bringing the child to our country will be able to cover the State Treasury. High Izbo! The changes envisaged in the project go in a positive direction for Polish children and their parents. The free movement of persons within the European Union is and will result in an increasing number of situations where the decision of the Community country where the child is to be raised falls into court. In this situation, the state's existing legal status and instruments in this area have not been sufficient. The transfer of this category of cases to 11 specialised district courts, together with the establishment of an appeal court, will help to harmonise the case-law line and improve proceedings. This should speed up and increase the professionalism of ruling in this area. It is also useful to assess the introduction of solicitor-radical coercion. It is good that in such sensitive matters the parties will be entitled to a representative appointed by the office. We stand in the position that wide and, if necessary, free access to justice and legal assistance should always guide the authors of changes in the Polish legal system. The enforcement of decisions only after the use of the appeal will avoid the creation of facts made in the form of sending a child abroad before the final outcome of the case. These changes are complemented by an extension of the rights to the acquisition and processing of personal data in the course of proceedings. This will allow for better discernment and better judgment on the part of the district courts. The Parliamentary Club of PSL declares its support for the contested bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u264	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 10 h 21 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws (Print No 2129). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, the chief conservation officer of nature of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to amend the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, hereinafter referred to as u. o.o., it is necessary to introduce organisational changes in the structure of organisational units providing services to the Director General of Environmental Protection and Regional Environmental Directors in order to increase the efficiency of the activities of these bodies. Currently, the Director-General, GDOŚ, provides the Directorate-General for Environment, and the 16 regional environmental directors provide 16 regional environmental departments. Each of these units is a budgetary unit, which means that there are currently 17 separate state budget units, i.e. the general management and 16 regional directorates. Such a solution results in duplication of supporting processes in the Directorate-General and in the Regional Directorates, in particular in the field of financial management and human resources matters, and requires employment in each of these budgetary units of persons dealing with financial, human resources and administrative matters. As a result, service posts in the Directorate-General and Regional Directorates account for 18% all posts and up to 24% jobs in substance. At the same time, it should be stressed that, in a situation where new obligations are being imposed on regional directorates and general directorates, and that at present there are very many investments requiring environmental impact assessment procedures, these institutions are becoming less and less efficient. The continuity of proceedings in these institutions is not unique. Here it should be recalled that e.g. Change in U.O.C. the 2015 transfer to the Regional Environment Directorates of Administrative Procedure related to the issue of environmental decisions for municipalities and old age, which resulted in an increase in the number of generally conducted cases in the Regional Directorates of Procedure by more than 3000 in 2017 without any staff reinforcement. The flexible structure proposed in this project allows for a reduction or increase in the number of regional directorates without the need to liquidate or create new state budget units, which are currently regional directorates. In addition, it will allow the allocation of human resources and material resources according to needs, which will contribute to effective environmental and nature management. It will also ensure that the number of local units of each regional directorate can be adjusted to suit the needs. According to the Ministry, in the current situation, the structure of the local units of each regional directorate is not appropriate to the needs. In some directorates, she's overdeveloped. For example, the regional directorate in Poznań, which is territorially one of the largest, does not have any local unit, whereas the regional directorate in Lublin, which is one of the smallest territorially DOŚ, has as many as five local units. The proposed law gives the possibility to regulate such situations and to reduce, or possibly, in certain directorates, increase, depending on the needs, the number of local units. Designed changes in the creation of one specialized organizational unit will reduce the overdeveloped administrative apparatus. Consolidation of ancillary processes will allow the relocation of part of the posts that are intended to support these processes to carry out the substantive tasks. More substantive staff will allow faster handling of cases, in particular making decisions on environmental conditions, which will improve the implementation of investments in Poland. The proposed law does not introduce solutions unknown to the Polish legal system, because similar solutions apply in the national tax administration. The proposed law does not change the status of GDOŚ and WDOŚ. GDOŚ will remain a central government body and retain the existing competences. Similarly, the WDOŚ will continue to remain an area-based body of non-integrated administration and will retain the existing competences. Nor will institutional jurisdiction change - GDOŚ will remain an appeal body against decisions issued by WDOŚ at first instance. There will also be no change in the procedural rules, in particular those governing environmental impact assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u266	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the Government draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws, together with the draft implementing act, print No 2129. The proposed law provides for the simplification of the organisational structure of offices serving GDOŚ and WDOŚ by setting up a state organizational unit specialising in environmental protection and nature protection, so-called. Directorate for Environmental Protection - DOS, which is a national budgetary unit, whose manager will be the General Director for Environmental Protection. He will perform his tasks with his deputies. As proposed, the Environment Directorate will include the headquarters of the Environment Directorate and regional branches. The head office of the Environment Directorate and the regional branches of the Environment Directorate will be in the structure of one budgetary unit, i.e. the Environment Directorate. A statute setting out the organisation of the Environment Directorate will be established by the Minister responsible for Environment. The Minister responsible for Environmental Affairs, when issuing the statute of the Directorate for Environmental Protection, will be able to identify organisational cells, departments and cells equivalent to the headquarters of the Directorate for Environmental Protection, which will be headed by senior officials in the civil service, as well as local departments in the regional departments of the DOS. The proposed solution will lead to the consolidation at the level of the Environment DG of all the ancillary processes to be implemented at the headquarters of the Environment Directorate and regional departments of the Environment Directorate. This applies primarily to financial and human resources management, asset management, repair and investment, public procurement, IT, audit, control, quality management, communication, legally protected information and health and safety. As a result, and entrusting the management of funds to the Director-General for Environmental Protection, this will lead to a real increase in the economic efficiency of environmental and nature authorities. In addition, consolidation of supporting processes will benefit the efficiency and speed of work in the Environment Directorate, as the General Environment Director will be able, depending on legitimate needs, to carry out more flexible management of human resources and financial and tangible assets, as well as to focus activities on priority tasks to protect the environment and nature. The transfer of issues in the field of local economy and staff matters to the DOJ will therefore relieve the WDOŚ and allow them to focus even more on carrying out statutory environmental and nature protection tasks. The proposed solution will not reduce the capacity of the public administration to apply European Union rules effectively, in particular in the field of environmental impact assessments, but will contribute to the even more efficient performance of its tasks, and in particular by shifting jobs to substantive tasks described above. The work of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry will clarify the provisions of the proposed amendments and consideration will also be given to the possibility of amendments attached to the draft regulation, which will result in e.g. Considered opportunity to maintain regional environmental management in Warmia and Mazury, which have huge natural potential. The proposed changes aim to improve the functioning of the system. The proposals for institutional changes will strengthen the effectiveness and effectiveness of the regional environmental DGs and the DG Environment. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws contained in Seym Paper No 2129. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, as the Minister said, is designed to simplify and streamline the system. I must say that I sincerely feel for the Minister that he has tried all of this to complicate us even more to prove that this is a simplification. What does this change mean? Because a diagnosis has been presented to us that with the system of general and regional managements and the fact that the work related to it is abundant, employees are overloaded and the idea is to massage technical workers in one place and thus save, as it turns out, 67 jobs and then next year add 8 substantive ones. As a result, 1260 people in regional Directorates and General Directorates will not be able to receive a notice as much as new working conditions may not be presented to them, or they may resign, which is not strange, because half of the Regional Directorates are being removed at the same time. This simplification will cause that e.g. employees of the regional management from Lublin will be commuting to Rzeszow, because this is how it improves, i.e. they will not commute. This law is another of the lex Szyszko series - hopefully the last one - which really dismantles the system of environmental institutions in Poland. This is another staff bill and its only tangible goal is to release more than 1,000 employees and replace them with new people in accordance with the revolutionary principle that we will name others, insert our own, the more incompetent, the better, because they will be more faithful, and they will already know what to do. There is no criterion, there is no other reason. I am in possession of often anonymous, sometimes signed for my information, emails from employees who alert that this solution will not solve anything, will be a staff cleanup. Not to mention that the simplifications complicate the dual-instantity system. We suddenly have one institution with two instances, two organs. And, for example, The Director-General will consider the cancellation of the same director but will be signed by the Regional Director as an authority and he will be an employee of the same institution. It's a pure abstraction not to say paranoia, which will end in huge investment problems. It is not such a question that the workers, not just the substantive ones, will replace the faithful with the right origin, that so to speak, politically, it is that we have a sudden breakdown of the procession over the investment documentation. Within the framework of Polish laws, these assessments must be issued, and we have a crash in this area, which threatens with huge consequences, and with consequences not only in the private sphere, but also in the field of public investment. Unless that's the case, because that's what we'll have loyal, faithful, because not necessarily competent employees, officers who will make the decisions they expect. Many times from this resort, from the mouth of the former minister, we have heard what ideologically leftist views lie behind the defenders of nature, among others. in the environmental management system. In fact, originally, in the framework of the previous package, also rationalising, it was envisaged that the system would be abolished at all. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 9 years ago, it was established, following a major conflict over Rospuda and a major conflict with the European Commission, that we did not meet the requirements for proper environmental impact assessments and public participation in those assessments, we introduced a system that was very well assessed by the European Commission. It can always be improved and improved, but certainly not in this way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they exchange poorly paid but substantive employees for incompetent but faithful workers. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform, I request that this bill be rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u270	Thank you very much, thank you already, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u271	She doesn't need anyone or anything but a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u272	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u273	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the position of Kukiz15 on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws, print No 2129. The aim of the legislation is to set up a Directorate for Environmental Protection. It will consist of: the DOS headquarters - the office providing services of the DOS, and regional branches of the DOS - the offices serving regional DOS. It takes over HR, financial, asset management, repair, investment, procurement, IT, audit, management, quality management, communication, legally protected information and health and safety. The establishment of a single national budgetary unit is intended to facilitate the management of the entire environmental and nature protection system. Organisational changes can cost the total budget of the State PLN 4.5.8 million, this is the expected cost of clearance, as it is a legislation that shifts the staff of the organizational and financial department to substantive work, i.e. to work related to nature conservation, habitat, animal and plant protection, species conservation, environmental impact assessments, implementation and monitoring of Natura 2000 sites, preparation of projects related to nature conservation and other. It's supposed to make it easier, for example. the investment activity, which has been slowed down to a large extent since 1 January 2017, but the adoption of this law will also result in the dismissal of substantive workers, which could lead to a certain weakening of the pace of investment. Despite these reservations, Kukiz15 is in favour of further proceedings over this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u275	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As you know, the Directorate-General for Environment and Regional Environmental Directorates play a decisive role in the Polish environmental protection system. They manage Natura 2000 sites and carry out an environmental impact assessment of investments that can also have a significant impact on human health. The Minister of the Environment accused these institutions of investment paralysis, which is why he is offering us another staff exchange. Some of the employees of GDOŚ and WDOŚ as a result of the introduction of the law will lose their position. The new working conditions of the Environment Directorate's staff will be proposed using unclear selection criteria. Previously, the criteria were to address the employee's attitude and commitment to progress at work, to be changed for the Environment Directorate, to have the education and knowledge necessary to ensure the proper performance of the tasks and to do the work so far. However, it is not known who will carry out this assessment. If the management positions of the revised changes are to be subject to staff exchanges, is the assessment e.g. will the employee's attitude be exercised by a person who has not previously cooperated with the employee concerned? Surely he will not be judged by a superior who will lose his position. The proposed regulations leave many unanswered questions. It is no secret that the outgoing minister sought to eliminate the uncomfortable staff for him. The management of the institution, which should be independent of direct political influence, will be decided by the Minister of the Environment. Until now, the directors, the deputy directorates of GDOŚ, have been selected through open, competitive calls, which the proposed regulations simply eliminate. There is no doubt here that the aim is to subdue the authority of the institutions responsible for environmental protection in Poland and get rid of workers who, according to the Minister, are ideological non-professionals. We do not agree to this because such actions harm nature. In fact, this is the centralization of the environmental protection system in Poland. There are no arguments to justify dismissals in management positions. To date, the activities and functioning of these institutions, and hence the staff, i.e. the work of highly qualified experts, have been appreciated in cooperation with the institutions of the European Union, as for example. it has resulted in an increase in the spending of European funds. Of course, there are areas in the functioning of GDOŚ and WDOŚ, which need to be improved, but what the projector offers us, I hope, is probably the last such a contribution from the Minister, of course, is only an exchange of staff, which the Minister has already carried out in other institutions dealing with environmental protection in Poland. In the context of the public consultation, which lasted - please, attention - 4 days, the draft law was addressed to nine entities favoring the minister, the most active non-governmental organisations dealing with environmental protection, nature in Poland were overlooked with a wide arch. The legislator ensures that the removal of part of the units will lead to a more efficient execution of tasks and a shorter waiting for the case to be dealt with. Unfortunately, this seems very unlikely, because - I will use the example here - the branch is to be liquidated, among others, in Gdańsk. The Regional Directorate for Environmental Protection covering the Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomeranian voivodships will have its seat in Bydgoszcz, while in Gdańsk there are now more administrative proceedings than in Bydgoszcz, which is because Gdansk is a larger transport hub, where river, sea and land roads cross. This is also linked to more environmental stakeholders. The opposition to the liquidation of WDOŚ also appeared in Kielce, because as many as 65% of the area of the Świętokrzyskie voivodship is protected areas. There must be more of these examples. In conclusion, this bill is centralization, it is a staff exchange on its own, on the Misiewiczów, it is a subjective and discretionary evaluation of employees' work, which is why the Modern Posel Club will vote against the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u276	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u277	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party vis-à-vis the draft law on DOŚ, whose regulations, in our opinion, will have a very negative impact on the protection of Polish nature. I recall how this law was created in 2008, after the failed PiS governments in 2005-2007, in the absence of appropriate regulations and a huge delay in Poland's spending of EU funds. The draft law allowed competitions to be launched and European funds to be spent. Today, when, after 8, 9 years, these regional environmental directorates have somehow stabilised their work, created procedures and a culture of institutions with success, but also failures, the state is trying to introduce once again organisational, administrative chaos, in fact eliminating half of the regional environmental directories. I am surprised at the positive position of Prime Minister Morawiecki here. I am also curious about what the position of Mr Kwieciński's future or current minister will be, because this decision will certainly not have a positive impact on the spending of European funds, but we are almost at the end. Three years left by the end of this programming period. But aside from European funds, regional environmental management is the service of entrepreneurs, farmers, local authorities. Many local governments have prepared and issued negative positions regarding this law. I don't think any government has prepared a positive position, because it really puts the interests of all stakeholders who are involved in the development of their local government or the development of the company. This also significantly affects agricultural activity, because all decisions concerning damage caused by beavers, bison and wolves today are issued on the spot, close to the citizen, in WDOŚ. As the law is bad, I will give on the example of my province, Warmia and Mazury, in which more than half of the areas are protected areas, 40% are Natura 2000 areas. There are 111 nature reserves, 8 landscape parks, 3,000. lakes. Last year, WDOŚ issued 12 different kinds of decisions. After your change, after your planned changes entrepreneurs, farmers, local government officials will have to go to Bialystok... [[6,000.]] ...or to Warsaw, because not all matters can be dealt with at a regional institution in Bialystok. I think you really don't need to be a philosopher to see here an attempt to cut down some voivodships. There is no consent from us, there is no consent from the Polish People's Party to the institutional dissection of half of the voivodships. For the institutional dissection of my voivodship, I will never agree. The Office, the institution of the State, should be close to the citizen so that he can receive information and be able to contact the official quickly. The state with incomprehensible arguments does not only deprive you of the right and the possibility of direct contact with these environmental institutions, but also this law, in our opinion, will seriously harm the environment, the spending of European funds and really the investment development of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u278	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Navel, as I see it, is not here. Mrs Czernow, Civic Platform. Come on in. [[What's the time, marshal?]] One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the purpose of the proposed bill. The title of the Act misleads not only Members but the whole public opinion. It's all about exchanging personnel for your loyal people, without competitions. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states: changes should only aim at improving the functioning of the system even better. Why, then, does it turn everything upside down instead of improving the system? Directors are fired, employees are fired who know this matter, which is very complicated. The number of Regional Environmental Directorates is expected to be reduced to eight. Why? Already today, waiting for environmental decisions, which are not easy, lasts quite long, and that is understandable, and this law extends this process considerably, to a year, maybe longer. Is that what this is about? How can a law be introduced that will have a very negative impact on investment processes? Instead of speeding up and facilitating investors, more logs are placed in front of investors. It is clear that the savings on this operation [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no such thing as a burden. I appeal to the new Minister of the Environment to withdraw from this harmful idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is so stupid and so harmful that basically trying to formulate any question here ceases to have a field. Do you even know in the government what model of public administration you want to build in Poland? Does anyone have control over this element at all? There's a joint government administration, there's a special government administration, and it's going to be some kind of special hybrid, because you're creating one organ that's gonna be the manager of resources. These procedures, these problems of state, have already been mentioned. The Polish administration system does not know such a freak. What are you guys even doing? I hope Minister Kowalczyk hasn't heard about this and will keep this project somewhere on the committee. If you were to say this: we add PLN 1000 to people so that they can have a decent pay, because they do a specific, difficult job, then I would know that you want to improve something, and you're telling them to go diagonally between voivodships. This is a way to disperse well-established staff that is not paid enough at the moment. You lose all these people, they go into the economy, they go to local governments. It's not gonna work. There will be one big chaos and misfortune because you're talking about small-time jobs, and there are billions in the game, billions in investment processes. [[Applause]] Idiotity. Sorry about the expression, but... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I haven't seen such a stupid idea in a long time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u282	Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question, Minister, will concern the appeal process. I would like to know: Under the new provisions of the draft law, will the decision of the regional director, as has been the case so far, be referred to the director of environmental protection, to the director general, or will something change and perhaps the appeal authority itself be the minister? Will there be changes here, or will it be the same as before in the appeal process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u284	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the questions asked in the Chamber, I would like to stress what I said in my speech, once again, that this project does not deal with any procedures relating to the issue of environmental decisions, any procedures which are related to this process. With regard to the reduction of the number of regional directorates which caused such a conflict here, I would like to say that the regulation which is created for this law, which is precisely which involves the liquidation, the halving of the number of regional directors, is a regulation which has not yet been socially consulted, which is being examined. This is an example that can be applied, and we will certainly lean on it and carry out analyses as part of the public consultation process. If they show that simply such and not other solutions, in terms of reducing the number of directors, will be unreasonable, they will not be used. Besides, even if the project involves a merger of two directorates, it's not gonna be like this... You can also read the regulation well. A branch of another regional directorate will continue to function in a place where the regional directorate will eventually be removed if there are two directorates connected to each other. The Petents will not have to drive across - as described here - the voivodships will not have to drive dozens of kilometers to the headquarters of the regional directorate, because the branches in the case of these possibly eliminated regional directorates will be in the same places all the time. With regard to the length of the procedure, we are now observing it. This is what I will stress once again in 2015, a change has been introduced which has led, without increasing the number of posts, Mrs, to increase the number of cases globally in the WDOŚ by 3,000. That's when you didn't provide jobs for it. Now we, Madam President, must unscrew this, because it is indeed that the FOOTS are becoming inefficient. [[Make sure you get your jobs.]] We want to do this with some savings when it comes to administrative matters. As for the question of bi-instantity, she remains as she is. The body of the first instance, I also said, is the regional director, and the body of the second instance is the general director of environmental protection. Nothing's gonna change here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u287	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I have the honour to present a position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, print No 2129. This project has a lot of interesting records, but it also seems to contain elements that can be disturbing, which we want to pay particular attention to. They focus mainly on the reduction of the number of regional environmental directorates and the establishment of field offices. 1. Unfortunately, the project weakens the institutional integrity of the voivodship. The current regional, i.e. voivodship, environmental directorates were associated territorially with the various voivodships. This bill is going away. 2. It seems that the quality of the law in the form of a decision - after the entry into force of the law - will not increase but become weaker. They will be taken from a much further perspective, and the issuing authority will be far removed from where it will be consulted. It will be undertaken by an official who does not know from the autopsy of the area, but only on the basis of intermediate data. And that's where we come in on the basis of the decision-making. They relate to very different cases of caliber. They often require a wide range of issues. So it's a lot hard to judge. on the effectiveness of the changes in terms of improving the speed of decision-making. 3. As for the quality of the staff, the fact is that we are dealing with old, unaired human resources - mainly the management of the old hand and unfortunately the entire pathology associated with it, i.e. leading with widespread nepotism. However, it is important to take into account that substantive workers are very often naturalists, both by education and by passion. It seems that their migration to the new headquarters of WDOŚ will not take place. They're connected to their territory. Others will likely be replaced, but there will be a collapse when it comes to the quality of decisions made. 4. The Act introduces a lot of freedom for the future as regards the organisational structure and thus gives the Minister the opportunity to shape it within the framework of regulations. It is in the case of good, highly specialised staff that it is not particularly beneficial, or rather it can result in changes in the transition of this staff to other institutions or industry companies - easily, because by means of a regulation - by means of a regulation. There are many other examples of not necessarily positive solutions contained in this project, which include implementation. does not strengthen the integrity of the state administration at the level of the voivodship. However, the Free and Solidarnia Circle assumes that during the process of the bill, it will be so refined that this legal act will have solutions beneficial for this segment of activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u288	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws (prints No 2145 and 2158). I ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws in print No 2145. Today, the Commission has carefully examined the government project to improve the system for payment of direct payments and area payments under the RDPs. There was an interesting discussion, during which the Minister representing the Ministry asked in very detail about the principles of this law and its practical implementation. One of the most important elements that this law contains is the possibility of submitting applications for direct and area payments under the RDP in an electronic version. The proposal in an electronic version has been changing for several years as a call for agricultural environments, but the efficiency of the IT system of the restructuring and modernisation agencies has not so far given the possibility of introducing this method of applying directly to farmers. Both representatives of the restructuring and modernisation agencies and representatives of the Ministry have ensured that there is no threat to the construction, extension and modernisation of the IT system, which will enable farmers who submit applications online. The system that has been operated so far - the employees of the restructuring and modernisation agencies had access to it - allowed only about 600 users to access it at the same time. On the other hand, the new system, which is currently being prepared by the Agency, will at the same time allow access to applications to tens of thousands of beneficiaries, which would definitely relieve the agencies' county offices and ensure quick and efficient submission of applications by farmers. However, given that not all farmers - these questions were also raised in the committee - have access to computers, not everyone has the possibility or ability to use them efficiently, for 3 years more farmers will receive all those annexes that are necessary to complete the application, and their electronic introduction will help both the employees of the county offices as well as the employees of agricultural advisory centres, agricultural chambers and private advisory services, which are also developing in Poland. Moreover, the Ministry of Agriculture ensures that a large information campaign will be carried out, explaining how these applications are to be submitted. This is actually a historic event. We're going through, you could say, like Kazimierz the Great from wooden construction to brick construction. This year, which is also enshrined in the Act, farmers who do not have one year to change direct payments will not have to submit an electronic application. They will be able to make a statement on a special form made available by the restructuring and modernisation agency that there is no change in the amount of the farm's payments. And such a statement is enough to trigger payments for farmers. These statements will be made one month before the statutory deadline, which starts on 15 March, from 15 February to 14 March. This will greatly facilitate and speed up the work of the restructuring and modernisation agencies, as these statements can already be analysed and examined by the agency a month earlier, which is extremely important. Of course, if someone wants to make any changes, they will also be able to make such changes in this statement by May. It is also important that we change the threshold for investments carried out under the RDP, which so far required that procedures be used to select competitive contractors from the amount of 20,000. zł, which is, you have to say, it was a low threshold. The Act amends this threshold similar to that in the Public Procurement Act, in the Public Procurement Law, up to 30 000. Euros. So this is a leaping and very important increase in the threshold, as farmers also expected. I hope that few farmers will benefit from this, but in a situation where the farmer, for reasons independent of himself or herself, related to death or illness or to other unforeseen accidents in the family and on the farm, will not be able to submit an electronic application, in justified cases under this law, the head of the county office of the restructuring and modernisation agencies will be able to agree to submit an application in paper form. This law is indeed a very important step in digitising Polish agriculture, in communicating farmers with the paying agency through the use of IT opportunities. We wish the restructuring agencies and the resort the best, that these very ambitious plans are actually implemented and implemented this year. Farmers expect this and we express it as an agricultural committee, and it was a common opinion in the committee, a wish that this first year of implementation of the electronic version would be a success. High Seym! Mr. Marshal! The Committee on Agriculture, with no objection, adopted the law by introducing minor amendments to it at first reading. The Commission asks the High House to adopt a law amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and certain other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u290	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club has examined this bill very carefully, which the government has presented... [[He, he, he.]] ...and it is my honor to present to you the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on this bill. The law regulates two very important matters. First of all, it's an online payment application online. This makes it easier for farmers, and for agencies. For farmers, because in this electronic version the drawings of the parcels of the farmer will already be prepared, they will not have to draw them again, the basic part which the farmer has had to fill by hand will already be prepared in the application. This will be a great facilitation for farmers. Of course, some farmers fear that this novelty, which will be introduced, will be difficult for them in some cases, but to this, as the Minister said and as in the Act and in the explanatory memorandum, will be all state bodies. Agricultural Advisory Centres, ARiMR and Agricultural Chambers will assist farmers in fulfilling these requests. This is really a very serious civilization leap in Polish agriculture. Examples are the proposals that were at the tax office, PITs. When electronic versions were introduced, many citizens were afraid of such proposals. It turned out that most citizens now fill out these requests electronically, because it is a great deal easier to go out to the citizens, especially since if someone fills out this request electronically, they will get refunded in advance. It's gonna be the same here. If this proposal is completed electronically, then, of course, the Agency will have less work to do with the implementation of these proposals and the funds will be paid in advance. This is a solution for farmers and we, as a club of law and justice, support this solution. We believe that this is a good solution for farmers and for agencies. The second point that we are deciding in this law is to facilitate the conduct of competitions for tenders in all the RDP programmes, in particular as regards modernisation. For many farmers, this was a big problem because they had to carry out the whole tender process during the investment process, with small amounts, because it was a threshold of up to 20,000. zł. At this point, it's going to be a threshold of 30,000. Euro, that's about 120 thousand. zł. It's a big threshold. I think it's also a lot easier for farmers. This law is being introduced just to make it easier for a farmer. So there is the issue of electronic versions, as well as the issue of tendering for each investment where EU funds are used. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, the Law and Justice Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Reporter, please tell us how it really was during the committee. Yes, it is true that Members, especially from the opposition, have been asking the Minister about the whole system, about the whole issue. The minister was slipping, as usual, because that's the only thing you can do. On the other hand, we are terrified, ladies and gentlemen, to note the following. It is deadline for this program prepared by the Ministry, and really by the company, the entity. That's also a question for the Minister. I do not know if there was a tender, whether someone else had this tender earlier, whether another one was distributed, how much the program was prepared, because they are still preparing, which is very important. Listen, folks, listen to the farmers: this programme will be forwarded to the Ministry on 12 March and from 15 March you will be submitting applications online. There's no way this system's gonna work. Developed for a very long time in the Ministry of Digitalization program for recordings, car registrations did not work. The program, which is prepared in such a short time and actually without any preparation, will be inserted and will work on the open body, which is ARiMR. This is your money you may not get, because this program may not work. Mr Ardanowski said there was a bill prepared. Well, it's not exactly a prepared bill. First of all, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to inform you that this project was under procedure today, under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Most of the PiS voted that we could do this, and that's against the Sejm's rules. Members, Mr Reporter, did not really read this project because this project entered the agenda last night. Mr. Marshal has decided that this project will enter. Parliamentarians did not have the opportunity to get acquainted with this project. Minister! It's important, too. You praise yourself, the rapporteur praises that this draft law is so important, so important and so fast it comes in. That's not true. Dear Minister, is it true that as soon as you took over, one of the journalists wrote a schedule that in 2016 25% of the applications would be posted online and in 2017 75% of the applications would be entered on the Internet. ? Is that true? And in 2018? I have a question. At this rate, the bill is being processed. You've had so much time. You've been in charge for over two years, and you haven't done anything about it. Another thing. Dear farmers, it is really on your shoulders that the work should be done by Arimr. And do you know why the Ministry is putting this burden on you? That's because she promised a raise at the AriMR. There is no such money in the 2018 budget. There is no money for ARIMR so that you can go to ARIMR, where you should have state aid, the PiS government, which does not fulfil its responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Information. You bragged at the committee meeting, Minister, that there would be a lot of information about this. Use TVPiS for this. How much money went from the budget, our money? There's information, full information, so the farmers know how to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill is not prepared. Which is still important. One of the Members, the Vice-President of the Committee, has tabled five amendments to this law. [[No, you don't. You can't count. Four.]] Five amendments to this bill. I would like to tell you that there are further points to be added, that there is a revision of one whole article and one legislative amendment. So, ladies and gentlemen, unprepared bill. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will abstain from voting on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u294	Mr Telus, corrigendum. [[The rapporteur's corrigendum.]] [[But how's that? I didn't name a messenger.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to correct. I will not allow it, and I would ask that you do not allow the marshal here to accuse all Members of not getting acquainted with the bill. I presented this on behalf of the club - I think it is quite detailed - as did the rapporteur. It shows that we've read the bill. Unless you didn't want to. This is his case and his pain. Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry, first of all, in what mode, and besides, I'd like to answer that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u296	No, sir. [[What right do you have?]] We're not going into this discussion anymore, okay? [[I understand that some people are privileged.]] They are not privileged, sir. I share your opinion on the procedure of proceding certain things in this Seym, but let us no longer enter into polemics at this point. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm also surprised at the controversy that just happened here. Without picking on the mode, however, I must correct. This law has been available to all Members at least since 3 January, not since yesterday. [[Applause]] We have to hold on, although partially, although not completely true. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. One of the main objectives of the draft law is the obligation to submit applications for direct payments and area payments in electronic form, as well as the possibility to submit instead of an application for payment an appropriate statement in which the farmer confirms no changes compared to the previous year's application. It should be stressed that the possibility of electronic submission of an application makes it easier for many farmers. Most farmers in the European Union already use it, but in Poland, although it has been possible to submit applications online for several years, this method is very rarely used. Last year, by electronic means, she submitted applications A little over 11,000. beneficiaries, taking into account the fact that more than 1300 000 apply for payments per year. beneficiaries, means that applications submitted in electronic form represent less than 1% all applications submitted. The discussions I had with farmers show that the reasons for this should be seen primarily in the lack of clear information and technical assistance from the institution and in the failure of the application. The representatives of the Ministry and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture ensure that the application is now easy to use, intuitive and friendly to the farmer. In addition, it is stressed that agricultural advice and agricultural chambers will be used to assist and support farmers. It's a beautiful assurance, we've heard it many times, but we know exactly what the reality was. Already at the first substantive meeting of the Committee on Agriculture of the current Sejm's term of office, in 2015, we dealt with delays in preparing the IT system for payment of advances for direct payments. Today, at first reading, we heard that work is still underway on the preparation of the application. There can be a great deal of problems with the operation of an IT system serving a million-dollar number of beneficiaries. For example, the efficiency of the application: the highest number of payment applications per year is submitted in the last days of the deadline, which could lead to system failure and even block the possibility of an effective application. I would like to stress that the introduction of an obligation to make electronic applications for direct payments is a late step, but undoubtedly very good, not only because of the considerable facilitation and saving of time for farmers, but also because of the positive impact on digitization of the Polish village. However, implementation is more important than a good direction. I therefore call on the Ministry of Agriculture, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and other institutions under the Ministry, which will be responsible for implementing the application, to provide farmers with the support and assistance necessary to ensure that this task is carried out with the utmost care due to the short time limit. In summary, computerisation of direct payment applications is a very good solution, but in the absence of a prepared, operational and efficient application, I will recommend a abstention from the vote to the members of the Kukiz Club15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u298	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u299	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project we are talking about here today introduces among others. the obligation to submit applications for direct payments and area payments from the Rural Development Programme in electronic form in accordance with the provisions of Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Commission Implementing Regulation No 809/2014. We understand that changes towards computerisation are also inevitable in terms of supporting the development of agriculture and rural areas. The stages of implementation of the new scheme and aid to farmers in this area discussed at today's agriculture committee seem to be well thought out. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture now has a strong responsibility because in Poland 1,300 thousand apply for this kind of aid. farmers, with approx. 99% farmers have so far submitted applications on paper forms. The information and training campaign must therefore be planned so that no farmer is harmed by the new law. The situation is all the more complicated because the weather makes it difficult for farmers to complete the harvest. For this reason, it will only be possible for many farmers to complete their applications at the end of recruitment. Therefore, there is a high risk that there may be problems with the service of all farmers in need before the deadline for submitting applications expires. The question arises as to whether the Ministry and the Agency are properly prepared for this situation. A wide information campaign must be carried out as soon as possible, as there is little time. Importantly, the catalogue of paper submission criteria has not been specified. The lack of a computer or Internet will not be a prerequisite for submitting an application in paper form. The head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture will have to assess each case individually, confirming the inability to submit an application in electronic form. The lack of precise guidance may in some cases lead to disagreement between the farmer and the agency. In 2018, it will be possible to make an appropriate statement in which the farmer confirms that there are no changes compared to the 2017 application. In such a situation, a new application for direct payments will not be necessary. According to the Ministry's estimates, 200 farmers, which accounts for around 20% of all beneficiaries of the direct support scheme. This gives hope of reducing the number of farmers who will need assistance when submitting an application by electronic means. It is good that, during the course of the work, the obligation to notify the ARiMR to farmers was waived if the case for direct payments was not settled by 1 March of the year following the year of the application and the deadline for the administrative decision to grant area payments by 1 March of the year following the year of the application. This issue has been highlighted several times in public consultations and opinions, including: by the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodship. We would like this program to work, that is logical, we want it to work well in Polish agriculture, but this project is still, you can say, far in the field, here, for example, the mentioned lack of good application. We hope that you will faithfully deliver on your promises to help farmers meet their proposals. I think that Modern as a parliamentary club will hold off, but it won't be against, because we are giving you a chance to carry out this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party not only carefully read this law, but carefully analyzed what has been happening so far in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and confronted this theory, which is contained in the project and justification, with the practice that is happening. This practice is not the best. In principle, this law deals with three issues, firstly, the possibility of submitting applications in electronic form. The theory is that this is very beneficial for farmers, and you can agree with it, while practice shows that last year's practice shows that a very small group of farmers have benefited from it, and it's not because they don't have a computer or can't operate it, and because this system was inefficient. Farmers went to the site, tried to fill out the application, this application was thrown out every now and the farmers finally decided to submit applications in paper form. So this system absolutely doesn't work and I'm worried that it won't work after the introduction. Besides, it is similar to the position of the farmhouse, which is already an authority for the PiS, until recently it was not the authority for the PiS, and it is absolutely correct to say that this is not the time and not the method to introduce an obligation to submit an application in electronic form. Although it is good that it can continue to be submitted in paper form. As far as advice is concerned, it is not the idea of a farmer going with a computer, tablet or laptop or sitting in front of a computer at a restructuring agency in the county office and filling out an electronic application together with an employee. This can be done peacefully by filling in the paper version of the application. It's about him sitting at home, filling out this application, and not causing any problems. Advice at this stage is unnecessary and there is no reason to believe that you are making some positive move towards farmers. In fact, it is positive that you will be able to make statements instead of a completely completed application, which is already 90% Completed, basically we just need to confirm on several pages that the information is true and nothing in the economy has changed. If something has changed, it can also be easily changed. Similar comments can, unfortunately, be given negative comments, also to what you say is the advantage of this project, i.e. to increase the minimum amount above which the competition procedure must be carried out, to increase from 20,000. PLN up to 30,000. Euros. It is not that this amount will change, it is that it is not as it is today, and farmers say that in the case of action: modernisation of farms it is not that farmers do not want to carry out the competition procedure, choose the best offer, the cheapest offer and the best quality, but that the agency officials reject the properly conducted competition procedure, grabbing on small things, qualitative details in a given undertaking, in a given action, not that the problem for farmers is the same amount - the 20,000. $30,000 or $30,000. Euros. For this reason, I absolutely do not consider this project and the changes to be revolutionary in each of these three aspects. I can no longer agree with the rapporteur, who said that this is an epochary event in the activities of the agricultural service agency. This cannot be compared to what Kazimierz the Great did, which changed Poland from wood to brick, but it did a bit. I would just like farmers to benefit from all of this, and they can benefit if this system works smoothly, but if the agency acts as it has done over the past two years, that could be a problem. Well, it's good that there's a possibility of paper applications, because it would cause system complications in the near future, which would cause system complications... [[It did not stay, sir, it did not stay, it needed to be electronically immediately, and paper only when Chief Arimr graciously decided that it could be done.]] Well, then, we hope that you'll be kind enough to decide whether the president of the Arimr will decide. [[But no, he's not gonna decide.]] If this is the case, as the Member says, we will indeed put farmers in a very difficult situation. Even if all this worked out, as you say, in theory, although the practice shows that it does not work, it will absolutely not result in the implementation of what you said some time ago, namely the increase of area subsidies, direct payments to Polish farmers, because neither in the law nor in the explanatory memorandum nor in any position of the Minister of Agriculture addressed to the European Commission was anything about it, at least I have not heard of it. of such a position. Today in the European Union there is a battle for something else, so that the budget for the common agricultural policy is at a similar level as in the previous financial perspective. In this regard, I have heard statements from various ministers from different countries, I have not only heard the statements of the Polish Minister of Agriculture, and I have not heard the statements of the Polish Prime Minister, either the previous one or the present one. In recent years, even the unloved Jean-Claude Juncker has expressed himself not to violate the budget of the common agricultural policy, but there is absolutely no voice from Poland. For these reasons, but giving [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the hope of the proper implementation of this project, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will not vote against this project, but will abstain in the vote, giving you the credit, so that you do not spoil another matter important for Polish agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u302	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If anyone wants to sign up, you're welcome. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I come to the conclusion that some wish badly for Polish agriculture and would like this to work. I do not know what this negative assessment of the functioning of the restructuring agency has resulted from lately, unless the agency paid about PLN 10 billion in advances to farmers from mid-October to the end of November without any problems during the period when cash was needed very much. Thus, the Agency fixes what it found in 2015. It seems that this system too, this application, which will serve farmers, is able to introduce. I have a question, Minister, because actually the efficiency of the application will depend on the assessment by farmers. I am aware that in the first year of its operation there will be people who will not be able to do this, and Italy is an example, where only 75% farmers submit applications in an electronic version, and it is, as it seems, a country better developed in terms of IT from Poland. Therefore, I would like to ask whether you are also engaged in discussions with local authorities, because my assessment shows that many municipalities would like to be involved in helping farmers handle electronic applications. This proposal is worth taking advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u304	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The legislative solutions put forward by the rapporteur and proposed by the Ministry regarding the possibility of submitting applications mainly in electronic form, but also in paper form, and the possibility of making appropriate statements are good solutions, they meet farmers' expectations. This will probably involve additional responsibilities that will be imposed on agency staff as well as other actors. In this short period of time - because time is not really long, we have to deal with it by 15 February - they will have to cover all farmers with an appropriate awareness-raising action that brings them closer to the changes proposed today. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the action of agricultural advisory centres is also being stepped up. Because here too, it is possible that agricultural advisory centres should be able to significantly support the employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in precisely those actions which will aim to raise awareness of farmers and to bring them closer to the new challenges they face, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is about these new forms of application and new opportunities in the form of statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u306	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Remembering what enormous money was spent in the Ministry of Agriculture during the previous coalition, PO-PSL - the details are in response to one of my interpellations - I would like to repeat the question I asked during the committee meeting, which unfortunately did not receive an answer, although the question is very important, crucial. How much has the Polish taxpayer paid for the next application for handling applications, and how much will it cost to maintain each year? These are important things because they are not money spent by the Ministry, but by Poles. You can't spend more money every two years every year. I repeat: What are the cost of purchasing this application and what will the cost of its annual maintenance be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u308	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The paper is patient. I keep my fingers crossed for your wishful thinking, believe me, but with your system of action, it seems that your actions will burn to the ground because the information that goes to the farmers is insufficient. Of course, you were talking about meetings, trainings, but these trainings can't be for workers, but also for farmers. I have a question. Will there be posts in the ARiMR, workers posted only to help farmers? And what's the point of that, will there be money for it? Will agricultural advice centres, which will also help farmers, receive money for this? It's up to you today whether or not this bill of yours will come into force, except if this application works. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, all the things that have to do with the application are being passed on to you, to you farmers. It is very sad that a government that boasts of helping agriculture is doing everything it can to make it harder for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u310	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr.Ryszard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are proceeding with the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. As already stated, the amendments concern three elements: an electronic proposal, statements on applications related to the possibility of submitting applications in electronic form and a statement, and a third element is competitiveness to simplify the procedures for granting payments under the Rural Development Programme. To a few... Today at the session of the Parliament committee, all these issues were discussed in quite detail, and there were also many questions. I would also like to draw attention to those questions which have been raised by individual Members and to a number of points. In the order I remember the voices, I'd like to say... I think we are all convinced - thank you for this vote - that this is needed and that these changes need to be made, in particular the digitalisation of the Polish village, in such a procedure, so that the funds are available faster, simpler and that this procedure should be as if in the European way already. I would like to say in this way whether to introduce it or not: in Lithuania the implementation of the application was started in 2010 and lasted 7 and 8 years, at the moment it is 100% conclusions, but it started in 2010 and this process lasted for several years. As far as Italy is concerned, there really is 75% at the moment But this process also took several years and required some effort from all sides. As for this situation we found 2 years ago, I would like to reply to Mr Maliszewski that there was an application of 1% in 2014 In 2015, there was an application that took 1%. I would like to remind you that we started work in November 2016, when the system did not work, so in 2016 the application could not be changed enough to make applications in electronic form. I can put it simply that if the work had been started then, if the application had acted on good principles or at least decent... As with this application, 600 people worked simultaneously, everything was blocked. We had to take action, we had to adopt some formulas, and today we are in such a situation that 15 and 20 thousand. people, and even more, as we assume, the originator assumes, can sit down simultaneously and the system will not block itself. [[You assume you don't have it proven because you don't have an application.]] But if we don't, we won't know. I think it's kind of crucial. I will say the shortest part: if it were not for the many years of negligence, which I wanted to show, we would have been at a different point and we would not have had to do so in such a way and in such a procedure, I would say, also very difficult for the agency to start this full-release work. [[Applause]] It's to prove, on the scale of Europe... I think we're determined, we're all determined, farmers understand that, too, and the statements we want to make make, as we've already said, 200 and 300 thousand... We estimate what is to be done, and invite everyone to cooperate. We are all responsible for this now to encourage farmers to check whether they are eligible for the statement and to make 300 and 400 thousand, and even - as we estimate - 500,000. qualified to be able to make a statement by 14 March. [[They can't buy land because that's the law you put in place.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u312	You're welcome, sir. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: The allegation that the application will not be active on 14 March is unfounded, because simply accepting applications starts with 15. Earlier there are tests, tests and no matter what, there will always be cleaning, there will be test issues, as with any system. We do not accept the conclusions of 14.15. Work is already underway, there are concrete experiences so that this system can function. We do not say that it will be running, only it will be functional after testing, as the procedures for professional start-up of the program will be implemented. As far as job questions are concerned, there are now 800 computers. The tasks that are assigned to work on the implementation of the system need to be separated. There are 800 computers in the agency, special positions, technical assistance. There are two things that need to be separated when it comes to counseling. The Agency cannot assume responsibility for filling in the application and then assess it. That's never been the case, and it's not the agency's job. The agency will have 800 computers - this is already ordered, distributed - there will be employees. What do you mean, extra? There will be no extra 800 people employed, only those workers who are employed in offices, in a special way assigned to how farmers will be. They're gonna help technically, they're gonna settle things, but key work to do... First of all, let's not say farmers can't fill this out. The first tests say that this application - not to confuse it with the one that was in 2014 and 2015 only this is new, built from scratch - leads step by step and also shows how to do it. We know that not everyone in the country has access to the Internet, but those who... [[That's what it is. Thanks to the Platform.]] ...that they have, I think they'll be fine, so let's not say that our farmers haven't seen the keyboard at all, they don't know what it's all about. They're gonna be okay, a lot of it, I'm pretty sure. [[And the system's gonna work?]] This trial had to be started once. As far as agricultural advisory centres are concerned, the agricultural chambers have a key task. This is the answer to Mr Ardanowski's question: we include local governments, we have a whole programme that will enable this. These works were already ongoing, they were such - I would say - sublime, quiet, but at the moment after the procession in the Seym we will be more publicized and presented in the media, because that is the order of things. Thank you for the votes. As regards the amendments to the Act, I would like to say that the two basic amendments were introduced because of Omnibus. Omnibus entered from 1 January, it could not have been done earlier during the process, because these are EU regulations and there was, firstly, that an active farmer, that we increase access, so as not to hinder, almost 2 000. farmers, and the second entry from Omnibus was about this - it is about what was already in the committee - that there is no need to add, to report to those parcels where we do not grant payments, that is to say the facilitations. This could not have been done before, Mr President, because Omnibus entered from 1 January, this procedure was finally decided. The other two amendments, as presented in the committee today, can also be returned to this, there is a report from the committee meeting, were purely technical amendments to introduce this correct legislation here. When it comes to the fundamentals that were there, we have a whole campaign for counseling units. Some farmers, too, have paid certain fees if the advisors paid for paper applications. This system will be partially maintained. At the moment, we are introducing an advisory service, i.e. an advisory service related to the fulfilment of an electronic application will be provided under the RDP. So here we are introducing a system that can work and support those who want to benefit from it at the same time. I think that of these important issues, which are the subject of questions here, the most important thing is that we all get involved in this work. Let us be prepared to mobilise and help as many farmers as possible. We're responsible for all of this. That's why I'm convinced this bill is needed. This bill, of course, doesn't say that it's going to go smoothly... But that's why we're working, and that's why we have an idea, and that's why we involve a whole group of advisors, chamber workers, restructuring agencies to end this successfully, which I'm convinced of. And this is a process that we're opening up and we want to catch up in this part so that we don't say that we're even, as always, countries that... For example, Romania or Bulgaria are in a much better position than we are. So I think we have something to do here, and we can do it together. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]] Mr Dunin, as corrected, right? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u313	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you have not answered my question and President Sachaika's. How much? When was the deal signed? What company? When were all these things supposed to be done? Those are the important things I'm asking you. Me and Mr President did not get an answer. If you do not want to answer today, you have no such knowledge, we ask you very much - and I think we will also ask you, on behalf of Mr President, to answer in writing on all the things relating to the invitation to tender, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with winning the tender, whether there were any annexes to this tender and how much it cost. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u314	Thank you very much. Minister Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! I can only confirm that the appropriate answers will be given in writing. This is the domain of the agency and precise, detailed information at this point I am not able to correctly present here. So there will be absolutely an answer to the questions of President Sachaika and Mr Dunin in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u316	I, too, thank you, Minister. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee, I feel obliged to correct the inaccuracies presented by Mr Dunin. In the Information System of the Sejm, the bill has been proposed for 6 days and each of the Members has been able to get acquainted with this project. However, it was presented in very detail at today's committee meeting by a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as in the form of answers to many detailed questions by representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It should also be recalled that this is the implementation of the obligation imposed on Member States by Commission Implementing Regulation 809 of 2014 to implement the so-called progressive implementation. A geospatial conclusion. The year 2018 is the year in which the members have this geospatial application in electronic form. Therefore, all those who criticize and previously said that this is indeed a historic solution for farmers, I ask: Why, when they decided what was happening in the restructuring agency, did they not even undertake preliminary work on the introduction of universal electronic application? Also according to the Minister's information - also on the question which I have submitted - according to the estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture this year a statement of the absence of changes in the application affecting the amount of the requested amount can be submitted from 350 000. up to 0.5 million farmers. I think that a large number of these will want to benefit from this if they are informed sufficiently early. This should help the Agency to accept electronic applications from other farmers in an effective and very strong way. I would like to remind you, for the precision of reporting to the committee, that it is not true that this law was not dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because the chairman of the committee held a vote in which the committee gave its consent... [[I said it.]] ...for a shorter period of legal review than 7 days. [[Mr. Chairman, I have said so.]] So the committee's voting requirement has been met. I would also like to remind you that Mr Dunin proposed - I think it was about the obstruction and extension of the deadline for the adoption of this law - to create a subcommittee and to move the procedure over the draft law to the subcommittee, which would probably significantly extend the deadline for the procedure of this law and would make the deadline of 15 February from which farmers will be able to make statements an unrealistic one. Then the opposition would probably raise, the crocodile's tears, that the agency wasn't prepared for it. I would also like to remind you that on 15 March the application period will begin, which will run until 15 May, with a deadline extended until 25 June, with a 1-percent deduction for each day of delay. But should it be presumed that Polish farmers, having a few dozen days to submit applications, with support from the agricultural support institutions, will not be able to submit these proposals? This is far unfair to farmers - an unfair lack of trust and belief in their helplessness. I've tried to report the committee's work in a precise way. Finally, I would like to express my personal opinion that this is the historic moment of the transition of Polish agriculture to the use of computer science to a much greater extent than has been the case so far, and I wish the best to the resort and, above all, to Polish farmers that we can achieve this together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u318	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle on the Government bill amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The proposed law introduces the principle of submitting applications for direct payments and area payments from the Rural Development Programme, the RDPs, in electronic form. The aim is to make all applications for these payments electronically over time. In addition, the proposed amendment will make it possible to make a statement in which the farmer will confirm that there are no changes compared to the 2017 proposal. To date, a new application for direct payments had to be submitted. This means simplifying the procedure for applying for direct payments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 3 (5) of the draft law proposes amendments which will lead to an increase in the threshold above which applicants for aid or technical assistance and beneficiaries of the scheme will be required to apply the principles of competitive selection of contractors of tasks included in the in-kind and financial statement of operations from 20 000. PLN up to 30,000. the euro, i.e. up to the same threshold as for public procurement. It was also possible for designated entities and beneficiaries to determine only one criterion for assessing tenders - price or cost. A further amendment to be made pursuant to Article. Point 5a of the proposed law is to add to the legal order of the RDPs 2014,2020 provisions enabling applicants for or technical assistance and beneficiaries of the scheme: 1. the conclusion of a contract for the performance of a given task included in the in-kind-financial statement of the operation with the contractor selected under certain conditions, where the best offer cannot be chosen as a result of the selection procedure carried out for the contractor of the task included in that combination; 2. the conclusion of a contract with the contractor whose tender was the next most advantageous of the other tenders, where, following the selection procedure carried out, the contractor of a given task included in the performance statement of the operation in kind and in kind, the selected contractor is refused the conclusion of the contract. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed changes that will simplify the procedures for granting direct payments and area payments from the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u320	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! From Konstanty Ildefons Gałczyński, Party Chat: Listen, what's your name? Modern. What about you? PO. We're from one giant family. Let's talk about our business. What's up with you guys? The job in your hands is on fire. So Abdullach can finally look into the windows. To keep Berlin's support high for us. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u322	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Can you be a vice-star in the county and a councilman in the municipality at the same time? Of course not - it is one of the basic rules of functioning of public life. Functions in one body of a local government unit shall not be combined with membership in another unit. This is clear from the law on municipal government in the article. 26b, which provides: the term of office of the councillor of the municipality cannot be combined with membership in the body of another local government unit. The District Government Act also leaves no doubt, art. Article 26 (2) (b) 3 provides: membership of the district board cannot be combined with membership in the body of another local government unit. But in the piss-dominated obsessive state, it's different. Well, Mr Konrad Gęsieraz, a close associate of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, elected on 27 September 2017 to be vice-stars, is persistently sticking to the mandate of the councilman of the municipality of Namysłów, participates in her work and takes a diet. How is that possible? Well, Mr Konrad Gęsieraz, despite the clarity of the records, filed a complaint with the Provincial Administrative Court in Opole against a resolution by the council of the commune which extinguished the councillor's mandate. This formal runway allows him to mock the letter of the law. Why? To preserve influence and money, to prevent the election of a new councilman, which is a choice due to the passing of time, will soon become simply impossible. Anyway, we are dealing with the arrogance and manifestation of the PiS power, all the more obsessed that the Opole voivode, who knows both resolutions, the choice for the function of vice-star and the expiry of the mandate, does not react. When I was an Opole voivode for eight years, there was no such case, no such thing as tolerating such a state at all. From representatives of the party, who, on the occasion of changing the electoral ordination to self-governments, dressed in robes of local government renewals, perhaps something may be required. Mr Joachim Brudziński, Minister of Interior and Administration, do you intend to tolerate the inaction of the Opole Voivodeship? Katarzyna Czochara, head of the Opole region of PiS, do you intend to tolerate the attitude of your activist in the field and his promoter - a colleague from the parliamentary benches? The only benefit of the whole case is that the inhabitants of Namysłowa and the county can see the standards that the local PiS respects - lack of respect for the law, greed, mocking of self-government and voters, lack of rules and class. 20 years ago, the self-government sejmik of the Opole Voivodship, led by me, decided about the existence of the Namysłów district. Later, I had the opportunity for years to co-create the foundations of its existence. Today, from this place, it is with deep sadness that I come to talk about the sale of rules by the ruling people, from whom we simply have to enforce elementary decency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-09-sejm-55-1.u324	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 10 January 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 58]]
