ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I open the fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Alexander Swede as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. I inform that the Sejm at its 50th meeting on 26 January 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws, and to the Act on the execution of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the fiftieth, fiftieth and fiftieth second meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. High Senate, I inform you that on 10 November 2017, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2016. It is included in print No 655. On 22 November 2017, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the information and informed me on 30 January this year. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, second, third, fourth and fifth items of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. You're welcome. [[It's...]] I can see and hear you, Mr... [[There's an objection.]] I hear you, I know. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u2	Mr Marshal, I object to shortening the deadline and introducing item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I'll repeat what I put in your letter to the marshal. Mr. Marshal ordered a meeting of the Senior Convention on 25 January, and the deadline for his opinion was 26 January, a day later, by 10 a.m. At that time, however, there was nothing at all to discuss and to comment on, because the draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure was submitted to the committee on Monday 29 January. So, Mr. Marshal, the convention meeting at that time didn't make any sense at all. That is why I am opposed to introducing this point and shortening the deadline for considering point five, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u3	I understand the Marshal is objecting to point five. [[Yeah, yeah.]] Yes? [[Yes.]] Then we vote. Ladies and gentlemen, who's in favour of introducing... [[That has to be explained.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we are making a decision right now: we are voting for or against. I propose we introduce this... I mean, there's gonna be debate, there's gonna be discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... You're not in charge, Senator. Excuse me. I think I'm doing the right thing. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] As a matter of fact... First of all, according to the regulations, Mr. Senator. There's my motion, there's the senator's objection, and we just have to vote it out. Who is in favour of upholding my proposal to include item five on the agenda, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Senate printing Nos 711 and 711 S? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure has been approved and this will be the fifth point. Ladies and gentlemen, would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request that the agenda be supplemented by the report No 438 of 15 May 2017. So, which, I remind you, concerns the recognition by the public authorities, by the Polish state, by the government, of Donald Tusk's election as President of the European Council. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much...]] Wait a minute. Mr. Marshal, well, self-loving isn't a virtue. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'd like to justify this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do I have a right? [[Briefly. Shortly, up to 3 minutes.]] ...especially that they accompany this... [[I mean, three minutes, because we've been counting time since the beginning of the speech.]] Yes. ...especially that it is accompanied by irresponsible laughter in this case... [[You're welcome.]] ...or unspeakable. There are still new circumstances that justify the need to consider this, even though it has been a long time. This newest circumstance is the fact that the place of residence of the President of the European Council, which I think should have a specific immunity, is cast stones by appendices, residents, I think, of Gdańsk. At the same time, it is not only important that appendices are thrown at them, but that there is silence, even indifference of the authorities, including the prosecutor's office, who has dropped the investigation, contrary to a situation where a couple of pen inscriptions in the offices of other Members are being chased by the Attorney General. The second circumstance is the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is conducting In particular, for Minister Waszczykowski, this was the case. Until now, continued expert work on the specific delegation of Tusk's choice, secret work, as demonstrated by the Watchdog Foundation, which revealed that the Ministry did not want to disclose these works. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a very serious syndrome on certain issues. This is the European Union. Not Prime Minister Tusk, because he does not actually report this to Poland and is taking various actions regarding the rule of law. Undoubtedly, the fact of throwing stones, sacrificing investigations and indifference about this issue is not good for Poland. To conclude, I am saying that this may mean that Poland is becoming a dangerous country for the heads of state, and this status is undoubtedly the status of the President of the European Council. That's why I'm asking you to take this seriously. You will then be able to react to the various thoughts on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Senator Martynowski reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm filing the counterclaim. I believe, Senator, that the Senate is a House of reflection, not a cabaret. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u7	Thank you very much. So... What's your status? [[I wanted to object, Mr. Marshal, too, but I think Mr. Martynowski said...]] No, that's enough, Senator, that's enough. Thank you very much. We will not debate or discuss. Please, who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll get the results back in a minute, and I'll announce them. Not everyone's voted yet, they're indecisive... Well, that's okay. I'll give you the results. 80 senators voted against, 27 against, 53 against. [[Voting No 2]] Senator Jan Rulewski's motion was rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the fifth meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting unless there is another proposal. Dear Senators, a two-hour adjournment will be ordered tonight at 1 p.m. I would like to inform you that following the preparation of the report of the commission on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment, the agenda will be supplemented by a point concerning this Act. Here we go, moving on to the point... I don't have a script. [[Voice from the room: 1st...]] I suspect so, but I need a script. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proceeding with the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments. It's a government project. Now, the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration will be presented to Senator Florek. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I submit a report to the committee on the amendment of the Law on Government Administrations adopted by the Sejm on 26 January 2018. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] Briefly on the purpose and subject matter of this law. The Act adds matters of participation in shaping the aesthetics of public space in the field of urban architecture... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please move the calls to the clowns. There should be silence in the courtroom so that we can hear what the Senator rapporteur is talking about. There you go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Act adds matters of participation in shaping the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning to the Department of Culture and the protection of national heritage. In the current state of law, these issues are not explicitly mentioned in the law on government departments. In addition, the Act clarifies the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers by expressly granting the Prime Minister the right to coordinate the State's housing policy and control its implementation. The Act gives the President of the Council of Ministers the power to modify the budget by means of a regulation to the extent necessary for the implementation of the Act. The Sejm passed this law in its 50th session. The law entered the Sejm on 23 January, and the first reading of it took place in the Sejm on 25 January. The second reading was immediately started and on the following day, 26 January, the Sejm adopted the bill in a vote. President Piotr Zientarski at the committee meeting asked what was the result of the vote in the Sejm and why not everyone unanimously supported the bill. There was a statement that 261 Members voted in favour, 148 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the bill about? There are two fundamental changes. That was asked at the committee meeting. One question I asked, then it was extended. At the end, Senator Grabowski also expressed his opinion and applied. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question was addressed to the Minister, and this was the question of how it is at the moment as regards the construction, spatial planning and development department and the housing unit where he is located. The question was asked because the President of the Council of Ministers issued a regulation on 12 January which shows that this department is subject to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is as it was before. We all know that there was the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, now there is the Ministry of Infrastructure, but there is also the Ministry of Investment and Development. After explaining the Minister, we know that a few days ago there was a change and construction, spatial planning and housing was assigned to the Minister of Investment and Development. So we already know that. As far as this section is concerned, as I said at the outset, the additional part, which has not yet been included in the aesthetics of public space in terms of architecture, urban planning and urban planning. This is to be attached to the Department of Culture and the protection of national heritage. The law is specifically stated that the law on administrative departments in the description of the cultural and heritage department should add point 13. It's listed in the bill... Excuse me, paragraph 14. The Act contains 13 points in the provision relating to the heading "Culture and the protection of national heritage', among other things. The protection of monuments and the care of monuments, and now there is a point 14 in shaping the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. That's one thing. And then there's the second thing I talked about at first. It is a matter of coordination by the President of the Council of Ministers of the State's housing policy. There was also information at the committee meeting that the President of the Council of Ministers yesterday... yesterday was the committee meeting, which was the day before yesterday he appointed the Housing Council as the auxiliary body of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Housing Council included the Prime Minister as Chairman, the competent constitutional ministers and Mr Mirosław Barszcz, the President of BGK Real Estate Bank. He was also part of this Housing Council set up by the Prime Minister. And here's the basic question: why should the Minister of Culture and National Heritage deal with public space aesthetics? Just architecture and construction, so far it hasn't been? And the Minister explained, among other things. Minister... I'm sorry, but I need to find out in my notes... [[...Lewandowski.]] Yes, Minister Lewandowski, that's correct. ...that it's mostly about the aesthetics that is, as he said, the field of culture. Architecture, although inherent in construction, is still a kind of art. So that was the justification that the Minister of Culture and Heritage should be dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm resuming now. What was the conclusion of this committee meeting? We know that when it comes to the location of this important department, which I was talking about, namely the construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, it will be with the Minister of Investment and Development; the Minister of Infrastructure also deals with investments, and we now have another ministry, which will also deal with these similar issues; and in addition to all this, the Minister of Culture will also deal with aesthetics. So that's the fragmentation between the different ministries here. But that's what the bill says. Ladies and gentlemen, there were two proposals at the end of the committee meeting. The first motion was made by me. It concerns an amendment to the Act, i.e. that in the article. 1 delete point 1. Basically, there are two changes, that is to say, in the article. 1 there are 2 changes: the first concerns aesthetics, and these issues are to be improved by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, and the latter concerns coordination of the living +. The amendment concerns only the first part, only point 1 of the amendment is to delete this point so as not to divide this issue, not to crush it into individual ministries, so that the situation is clear and transparent as to who is responsible for what. The second motion, submitted by Senator Grabowski, was a motion to adopt a law without amendment. Both proposals were put to the vote. For both the first proposal and the second, the ratio of votes was 4:4. Consequently, the committee has not taken a position and if the committee does not take a position, both proposals shall be put to the vote in plenary. So I'm just putting forward that these two proposals were made at the committee meeting. Plus, it's called a little supplemental... As regards matters generally related to space aesthetics, etc., they are already in some way regulated. After all, we have a law on spatial planning and development, where it is clearly written, who agrees on the projects of spatial planning plans, the project which prepares the ghetto, the mayor or the president, is agreed by the voivodeship conservationist in the field of building and land development... Well, if anything, here we could add the words: and the aesthetics of public space. And it would be clear that this concerns matters relating to the competence of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. And this added rule in paragraph 14 actually says that in the context of spatial planning in any situation you will have to agree... Well, I don't know how it's gonna look. I think that's a question for the Minister. According to this provision, practically all spatial planning plans will have to be agreed This is the result of this change. This provision speaks of participation in shaping the aesthetics of public space. Well, it's hard to explain what that part would look like. The Minister stressed that there would be 10 people in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage to deal with this particular issue. Due to the great number of matters relating to planning and spatial planning... the state, which had to do with work in local governments and spatial planning plans, realize what work it is. It's hard to do. But that's what I'm going to talk about in the discussion, because right now I'm the rapporteur, and I'm just going to talk about what the committee was talking about. The final result of the committee's work, as I have already mentioned, is this: the committee has not taken a position on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u9	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question as to whether there was a substantive discussion at the committee meeting on how important this department is in the context of, say, littering the landscape, public space in Poland. In this respect, Local governments take various kinds of actions that limit the order not only spatial, but also visual of our reality. So far, there has been virtually no uniform state policy in this area. Did the government's representatives argue, say whether there is any vision of how this section will be implemented specifically? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u11	Well, it's supposed to be kind of a new, separate part. The one concerning the aesthetics of public space In this section. Of course, there was a discussion about the importance of public space aesthetics. These matters are somewhat, in part, regulated in other regulations, i.e. in the Land Planning and Development Act or in the Revitalization Act. We also have the so-called. Landscape Act At the meeting there was also talk about advertising, etc. Which also arranges matters related to space aesthetics. The whole problem is that this is a huge issue for spatial planning as well. It's hard to imagine how it's gonna look, especially since there's only a record in the bill of participation in shaping this aesthetic of public space. Yeah, well... The Minister was trying to explain it; I was also here telling you what this participation might look like. And this is a question to the Minister, asking him to perhaps comment more on how this participation in shaping the aesthetics of public space would look like when it comes to the Ministry of Culture and Heritage. These 10 people will be moved, I think, from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Besides, in the Ministry of Infrastructure, these issues remain, and in the new Ministry will also be these issues... after all, all investments Whether it concerns infrastructure or other areas, it involves the aesthetics of public space. It's all connected so that you can redirect this question to the Minister, possibly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u12	Thank you. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Was there any information at the committee meeting... Have you considered changing the number of people working in the administration? Will this bill reduce, increase or leave a status quo for employment issues both at the level of Undersecretaries of State and those dealing with these two areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u14	There was no such discussion at the committee meeting, apart from the Minister's information that the 10 people to deal with these issues were to be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Heritage. But I understand the subtext of this question, because this is again another department, there is the ministry of one and the other, there are shifts, and of course it is clear that the administration should not be expanded. I'm alone for... I remember a few years ago, what was the situation, what were the limitations on administration. And right now we know we've got over 100 Undersecretaries of State in the ministries. That is to say, it must indeed be taken into account that such actions and such changes, of course, result in an increase in the administration. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u15	You're asking Senator Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I am pleased that you have said this in the second part of your report, and in fact now, also by answering the question about these 10 people. Because initially during the report you said that there would be a division of competences between the ministry and that it was quite clearly indicated by Minister Lewandowski that these 10 people would pass and that in fact this law was ordering competences. And my question is one more question that you left behind, which seems to be unanswered. You pointed out during the report that the regulation was issued on 12 January. During the committee meeting, did the Minister say anything about changing these regulations or not? 'Cause you, I guess, forgot to tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you weren't paying attention to me, because I just said, and the Minister also said that the regulation of January 12 had probably been amended about a week ago, and that's why it's already gone to that section. And those 10 people are... Until now, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction has been involved in this department. At the moment, some of them are going to the Ministry of Investment and Development, because the Ministry of Infrastructure remains in some way... Well, that's okay. It is possible to ask the Minister or the Prime Minister why what has always been in one ministry so far, in general over the years... Now the infrastructure will be separate, investment and development will be separate. And as for what you were talking about, which is 10 extra people, they will be sent to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage because they are going to address this new issue, in addition. So that these issues remain within the infrastructure, and in the ministry... And, as always, that's the problem. And I would stress that when it comes to this role in shaping and how it would look, how it would be implemented, what it would look like, especially spatial planning... This is a fundamental question, because we know how it so far looked like there had to be an agreement on monuments and so on. I'm not going to talk about historic areas anymore, all those stories. The Minister also mentioned what it looked like. But the Minister of Culture spoke in this regard, and if he speaks about the whole aesthetics now, it will apply to many other issues, because culture is also an architecture, as the Minister emphasized, etc., so it is difficult to imagine what it will look like. I don't think I can imagine. Therefore, there was a request to delete point 1 from this two-point amendment. But that depends on the Senate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u18	Thank you, Senator. There are no more people to ask questions... Oh, there's Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the comprehensive ordering of the whole sphere related to the aesthetics of Polish space, because in my opinion this is a much broader problem than what regulation concerns. I would not simplify this by bringing this only to the amendment of the Law on Departments and the transfer of part of the competence of this aesthetic layer to the competence of the Minister responsible for Culture and National Heritage. I would rather seek an agreement, and not only at ministerial level, i.e. agreements between individual resorts on a horizontal, sector-specific basis, here I would like to ask if there was a discussion on this subject. But also in vertical terms, I would look for a certain degree of competence, i.e. agreements between different departments and regional, district and municipal authorities. I also think it would be worth adopting a kind of spatial code that would protect these entities from spatial mess. Was there a discussion about this? Perhaps this initiative will also be the beginning of the alignment of spatial governance competences. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Has there been such a proposal that comprehensively, comprehensively, this problem should be sorted out? I would also like to say, Mr Senator, that I would rather delegate my competence to the minister responsible for matters of either infrastructure and construction, or investment and development. I'm telling you why I mentioned investment and development. Well, however, spatial governance in Poland is created by the Minister of Investment and Development. The concept of spatial development of the country and in general Poland's development policy are part of the competence of the Minister responsible for investment and development. And why could the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction possibly do that? Because the whole building law, including the enforcement of the law, depends largely on the minister himself or on the agendas under his authority. And I would rather try to hold one of these resorts strong and give him competence in this area, rather than introduce a new actor in the game of spatial order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u20	Thank you. Senator, there was no particular discussion at the committee meeting on this subject. I think you know very well that the urban and construction code has been under review for a long time. If I remember correctly, the Minister promised that this project would be presented by December 2016. It's been another year and there's no code, and I think that's the file where these things are. Exactly what you're talking about, Mr. Senator, should be settled. So far, there haven't been any special problems in these cases. I remember there used to be a Ministry of Construction and Housing, and then it was clear who did what. At the moment, the situation is that these competences are a little scattered, and I therefore think that this is a valid question. We would like these matters to be properly regulated in the urban and construction code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u21	No further questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Would a representative of the government, Mr Paweł Szrot, Deputy Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, like to speak on this matter? Please approach the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to repeat what the rapporteur said about the justification for the bill. I would just like to say once again what I said at the committee meeting, so I would like to ask the senators and ladies to adopt this law without amendment. This amendment, which Senator Florek proposed at the committee meeting, is an amendment concerning the deletion of point 1 in Article. 1 is in fundamental contradiction with the key objective of the law, namely the introduction into the government departments of a new department on shaping the aesthetics of public space and the granting of this department to the Minister responsible for culture and the protection of national heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the questions asked by the senators here, the answers to some of the questions, e.g. Senator Jackowski's question and Senator Slugocki's question lie within the scope of the beneficiary of this regulation, which is the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. If I may ask, Mr Marshal, for permission, I would like to ask for the floor of Minister Lewandowski, who represents the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. As far as Senator Czarnobaj's question on the possible increase in employment is concerned, I repeat: there will be no increase. It's all about shifting between resorts. This law does not provide for an increase in administrative employment. Senator Grabowski has already properly answered the rapporteur. I can say once again that, yes, the shift in the departmental competence concerning construction has already taken place in favour of the Ministry of Investment and Development. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that's all I have to say about this. Once again, I ask you to adopt the bill without any amendments. And if I could ask for the floor of Minister Lewandowski... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u23	Wait a minute, Minister, 'cause there might be some more questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, an additional question. Of course, thank you very much that Minister Lewandowski will answer the question I have formulated and also the question of Senator Jackowski... I would like to ask if, in addition to the amendment of the law on administrative departments and cell transfer, yes 1:1, to the Minister responsible for cultural affairs and the protection of national heritage... Will you be equipped with other instruments, such as legal instruments, in which you will be able to influence all those responsible for aesthetics, spatial order, and build some feedback, some correlation... I am thinking here, for example, of the units of the local government at the basic level, because they also largely shape spatial order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u26	Mr. Senator, I can make a direct statement. Of course, this departmental law is the first step. It will be followed by such an analytical review of all substantive laws. This law is the starting point for further changes in the legal system, primarily concerning the shaping of landscape aesthetics. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u27	Are there any more questions? Senator Czerwinski, I see. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u28	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I have two questions because, contrary to appearances, they are separated. First of all, why do you separate these cases, which is why this new department is being created? And secondly, why are these matters taken over by this minister rather than by another? Because there were problems here... So the questions are two, short and...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u29	Mr. Marshal, may I? Mr. Senator, why we're calling this department is obvious. It was not before, and this is very important from the point of view of the ordinary citizen in the field of administration. The question of spatial aesthetics simply affects our daily lives. Mr. Senator, as to why the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, not another resort... This matter was presented at the committee meeting and Minister Lewandowski Which, probably in a moment, if he had the chance, he would repeat: this is a matter of a very broad understanding of the cultural issue. Architecture is a culture, a matter of revitalization, i.e. restoring urban areas to citizens, it is also a question of quality of life and has an impact on the cultural situation of each citizen. It is also about monuments, it is about landscape aesthetics, which obviously has a lot to do with culture. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u30	You're asking Senator Kopeć a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u31	I have a question for you about a very important law, namely the Urban and Construction Code, which has been underway since the beginning of September 2016. This was actually a continuation of the work on this document, because it has been mentioned for several years. But I'm sure it's such intense work. It was a huge amount of work. The Ministry of Infrastructure on this document, over the urban and construction code, has been in place since September, as I said, 2016. The document appeared, Mr. Senator Florek, on November 23rd, is on the official website the final text of the urban and construction code. And now my question is, where will this code be... will this code be under the authority of the Ministry of Development and Investment or the Ministry of Culture? Because this competence... part of this competence regarding a large architectural and urban area now, according to this division, in my understanding, is within the competence of the Minister of Culture. That's my basic question. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u32	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u33	Mr. Senator, I can only confirm what we have said, without denying absolutely the achievements of the Ministry of Infrastructure regarding this legal regulation, this project. As we have already said several times here, all the competences concerning construction have been passed by the latest attribution regulation to the Ministry of Investment and Development. As I understand it, further work... [[So these are the cases that the Minister of Development will be running.]] This minister will address these issues, also as regards what we are debating today, i.e. as regards the competence change concerning spatial aesthetics. The Minister will, of course, deal with these matters in cooperation with the Minister of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u34	You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u35	Minister, I actually wanted to ask you the same question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I ask your senators to unveil Senator Flork, because it is better to see a person speaking. There you go.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I can already see your marshal. Everything's fine now. Minister, a similar question was asked... In that case, since these matters are to be sent to the Minister of Infrastructure and Development, I have the question: whether the work in this area continue and will the same minister continue this work? When can we possibly expect the architectural and construction code to enter into force? And second question, Minister. It's about the second part of the amendment to the Departments Act. It is the President of the Council of Ministers, who is to take over the competences of housing policy. Can you give us information about the National Property Resources and how many contracts he's made now? Are there such agreements? Because we know that there were pilot programs, but when it comes to building apartments, according to the law that was adopted, operators are supposed to build these apartments. Therefore, the question is: do you have any knowledge of this, or have any agreements in this regard already been signed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u37	Senator, as far as the first part of your question is concerned about further work on the bill, all I can say is that I am counting on work to be done immediately in this new context that we are discussing today, involving new actors. I also hope that legislative work will not, in principle, extend. With regard to the second question, regarding the number of contracts signed under the national resource, I can declare that we will reply in writing in this regard, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u38	Thank you. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. At one time, in the Law and Justice programme, we had the very right idea to cover the whole country with land-use plans. This is a call which is crucial not only for order but also for the economic development of the country and for the calming of local conflicts. It's about conflicts that arise, for example. in a situation where it is located, for some reason it is socially burdensome, agricultural production or to any other extent. Please tell me whether the planned change will serve this purpose, however, so that this request, in some foreseeable perspective, will, in the most appropriate way... I know that this is a huge undertaking, because it seems that thirty-six percent of the country's area is covered by local spatial planning plans, but in my opinion, without ordering local law, local instruments for the impact on spatial governance are largely limited. Is the government planning some kind of dynamic work on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u41	Mr. Senator, well, I can tell you this: you're absolutely right. This is one of the most important issues in terms of spatial governance in general. The law that we are looking at today has a bearing on this general issue that you have pointed out, although it is difficult to expect that the adoption of these concrete solutions will somehow have a major impact on facilitating or enabling the entire country to cover its plans. Mr. Senator, I can only declare that the government will act in this direction. And as for speed and further action, I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u42	There are no further questions for the Minister. [[There are, there are questions.]] Senator Kopec. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u43	I have one more question. On Monday, Prime Minister Morawiecki appointed the Housing Council, which he personally presides over. This board consists of six ministers, the President of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Head of the Government Legislative Centre. In June, Minister Adamczyk spoke at one of the press conferences about the appointment of the Prime Minister of the National Housing Council. It would be such a cooperating body, an expert body with regard to the Is the appointment by the Prime Minister of this Council, which consists of half of the Council of Ministers, as if it excludes what has been discussed for a long time, the one prepared in the infrastructure department... i.e. the establishment of the National Housing Council? [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: May I, Mr Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u45	Mr. Senator, of course we realize that he doesn't rule out. On Monday, a body of such an executive character was established, composed of representatives of government administration. The question of the advisory body is open. And this will depend primarily on the Prime Minister, who will coordinate the whole path of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u46	If you don't mind me asking you about your location at a time like this... Would that also be with the President of the Council of Ministers at the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers? Or the Minister of Investment and Development?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u47	I'll tell you, Senator, at this point, I can imagine... [[I understand that...]] ...but it's hard for me to declare on behalf of... [[I'd just like to signal...]] ...the very coordinator, who is the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u48	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. First: why now, when we have the largest number of ministers and vice-ministers in the government in history, is the Prime Minister taking on the program of living and National Property Resources? To me, it was a huge surprise when I read about it. And my second question. What tools are we talking about as regards the competence of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage? I'm talking about these tools that are able to cause that, for example. The state of order of space, what we call, of course, aesthetics, will be definitely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u50	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, I'd like to make a point that I'm not referring to. As to why the Prime Minister intends to take over the coordination of these tasks, I would like to say briefly: to improve the situation and to improve these activities. It's obvious. If... [[Are we making this better or...]] ...to coordinate these tasks will be the President of the Council of Ministers, that's... I think it is clear that this is the highest level of government administration, and in such a situation the allocation and enforcement of actions should go much better. As regards the tools that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage intends to use, this is what Minister Lewandowski already spoke about at the committee meeting and I hope that he will be able to repeat the same in response to your question, Senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u51	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the issue of the aesthetics of public space, architecture, urban planning, spatial planning, cultural or natural landscape is also largely the domain of the communes, it is also the competence of municipalities which protect, better or worse, the cultural and architectural landscape, the quality of public space through local plans. In view of these changes, does the Minister know about any statutory plans that would change the powers of the local government in this area, about the planned changes to those powers of the local government?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u53	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u54	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, as I have already said, there will be an analytical horizontal review of all the laws in this area and I do not exclude that some changes in this area will be identified in this review. Minister Lewandowski, representing the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, has already pointed out that these new tasks, which he intends to carry out in relation to his participation in shaping aesthetics, are intended to be carried out in close agreement with local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u55	Now you're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u56	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have a question for the Minister. You spoke of moving housing cases to the Prime Minister in order to improve the effectiveness or implementation of these tasks. Could you zoom in, please? 'Cause it's very interesting. What are you going to improve if this goes to the Prime Minister? What elements of this program are you going to improve? That's one thing. Secondly, how much have you implemented under the 500+ programme... How many of these apartments have been given over two years of government? It's those two questions, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u58	Mr Senator, as far as the first part of your question is concerned, although the bill has not yet entered into force, the Prime Minister has already used some of his resources, for example, by establishing. The Housing Council, and these actions, already as coordinator, will continue in line with the provisions of the Act we are discussing today. I repeat: when all coordination falls within the remit of the President of the Council of Ministers and he will determine the activities related to housing and enforce their implementation... Well, in my opinion, it is clear that these tasks will certainly improve. As far as the figures you requested are concerned, we will respond in writing to one of the previous questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u59	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u60	Thank you. Minister, work is underway to regulate the issue of distributed housing in rural areas. These works aim to ensure that the newly built building is in the vicinity of existing buildings, which is intended to improve the order and aesthetic, and spatial often scattered rural buildings. Can we say at what stage is the work in this area? They relate to the subject we're talking about today. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Excuse me, may I ask you to repeat the first part of the question?]] Work is underway to amend the legislation on building approval in extra-urban areas, in rural areas and areas, and to ensure that new buildings are built in the neighbourhood and as if in relation to existing buildings, so as not to disperse construction in rural areas. It is connected directly and with spatial order, and with the aesthetics of buildings, and with cultural, natural contexts. I'd like to ask what the stage of work is. When do you expect this work to be completed?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u61	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind... Mr. Senator, we'll answer in writing. At this point, it is obvious that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage has been involved as an entity that is involved in shaping spatial aesthetics. I hope, in fact, that this will not result in any extension of the legislative work. [[But I'm asking you to answer in writing.]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u62	Thank you, Minister. If there are no further questions... Thank you very much. Since several questions were addressed to the Ministry of Culture, I ask Minister Paweł Lewandowski to answer. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr Marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, there were some questions addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. But I would like to start with a more general matter, why, in principle, the Minister of Culture and Award Heritage should have these issues. This is due to the Social Capital Development Strategy, whose guardian or, as it is commonly said, the owner of the government is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. It is he who carries out coordination work in this area together with the various other departments which are required to achieve the objectives of this strategy. One of the priorities of this strategy is the protection of cultural and natural heritage and the landscape. As we read in this strategy, the protection of heritage as an important cultural resource also requires an integrated approach to the cultural landscape. The effectiveness of heritage conservation Today it is not only the form of protection, but also the function of the use of historic objects and their surroundings. The issue of the protection of the cultural landscape, including nature, urban planning, land-use planning and use, should be adequately taken into account in the provisions of local, regional development strategies and plans, and in particular in the spatial planning plans. Such records will allow policy coordination in terms of culture, environmental protection, economic and social development. It is therefore necessary to improve and promote cooperation between all actors involved in the spatial planning process at different stages. I would like to point out that this is a clear response to this provision, which is in the Social Capital Development Strategy adopted by the previous government. We are also implementing this strategy in this area because we have not modified this strategy here, and hence such provisions in the law on administrative departments. I would like to remind you that the draft law states that the Minister's participation in these activities, i.e. it is advisable to make it clear that all activities related to aesthetics and urban planning issues etc. be coordinated and agreed with the Minister for Culture and National Heritage. What kind of measures? Because the question was, first of all, what kind of measures and how this coordination would take place. The Minister of Culture and National Heritage appointed the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science at the end of last year, which is to be precisely the centre of competence for this area of activity. As far as the measures are concerned, Minister Szrot has already said that there will be a review of material law and various delegations in the laws. The idea is that the role of Minister of Culture and National Heritage should be taken into account and incorporated directly into this area. I think that a coordination team can also be set up for this action, but we are at a very early stage in agreeing on these issues. I think that any further measures or instruments that will be used for this will be communicated, and this will later be communicated. At the same time, I would like to point out that the law on administrative departments concerns a little division of competences between individual departments within the government. I am convinced that if the government proposes such an internal system of state administration for which the Prime Minister is responsible, it would be a good practice to allow the Prime Minister, according to his idea, to formulate and manage the government's system. And the voters at the end of their term, at the end of their term, will decide whether it was effective and whether the objectives that the government has set for itself have been met. There was also a series of questions about what issues would be raised and why the minister... That's what Minister Szrot has already answered. If there are any more questions, I'm willing to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u64	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u65	Thank you very much. Minister, you said at the outset, reading a very interesting part of the government's strategy, that it intends to protect the landscape, public space, landscape, cultural and natural values. Tell me, what tools? Or, for example, The government is attempting to audit the cultural, natural landscape area, which is such an analysis of what is valuable in terms of the tasks that the ministry and the government are taking? And if so, when is this audit going to be carried out? How? And what will this have to do with local government, which has the greatest impact on space formation at the moment?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u66	The government is based in its actions on the strategies it adopts. And this is one of them, the Social Capital Development Strategy. The priority of this strategy has been read. And this priority results from the actions to be taken. These are the next actions that are planned for years, because this is a strategic action. I think that over time you will see further actions, further instruments and how to address further issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u67	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, two brief questions for your statement. You said that you could have a team with the Minister on coordination of this field of life, especially important in Polish municipalities. Like this advice on construction, will there be a country's aesthetics advice? Could you say two words about this, Minister? That's the first question. And second question. The Minister said that this law is making some changes to the administrative departments of the Prime Minister's new view of certain elements of governance, which, of course, I agree with. But on the other hand, I'd like to ask... and say that I actually disagree. The Minister said that we should trust him and say after four years that we succeeded or that we failed. Did the Minister mean by this that, in the case of such laws, we should not make any comments or observations, even critical ones? So we should just take it blindly, say, yes, it's a good bill, the Prime Minister knows what he's doing, and if it doesn't work, it's hard, we'll judge it in four years? So that I would ask the Minister to refer to this statement, to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u70	Well, I think it's too much of a reduction in what I said. I meant rather that the manager usually organizes it himself, like plans in the company, in the company, in the entity he manages... how actions and tasks are to be separated because of their greatest efficiency. The last two years of our government's work have shown that we are working very effectively. And every time we see the need for new actions, we adjust the structure of our government to the problems we have identified. And I think it is obvious that any such action is preceded by appropriate reflection. The proposed law is the result of such reflection. Of course, Parliament is generally in control, has the right to ask everything, has the right to pay attention to everything and criticize everything that the government does. It's his basic right. [[And that's the first question, the question of advice.]] At the moment, we have nothing more to report on. We're planning precise action. When the law is adopted, we will propose further measures resulting from the review of legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u71	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that the government has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Flork, Senator Rybicki and... [[That's all of them.]] That's everybody. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The bill is quite short, but very important. I'm about to move on to the first part of the discussion on planning, the spatial planning plan, the fact that the whole country should be covered... But maybe I'll start with the second part of this law, which is the part where it says that the President of the Council of Ministers coordinates the housing policy of the state and controls its implementation. Minister, you said it was a good custom to give the President this opportunity not to discuss and that he would coordinate this policy. The only question is: why should the President of the Council of Ministers now address housing policy? We know that this policy has so far been shaped in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction by Minister Adamczyk. It is well known how important for law and justice was the scheme of living and living, given that the MDM programme is gradually being extinguished, living for the young. The question therefore arises: what is the situation with regard to this programme today? And there were questions to the Minister, also on my part, about the situation after the amendment of this law, when KZN, the National Property Resources was created. Here, in the Senate, we discussed this widely. I can only repeat what I said at that time, during this debate here in the Senate, about these changes, about what the body is like, that it will collect information that it will have to be passed on... All that real estate stuff... Then there'll be some analysis, a return, etc., etc. Finally, KZN, a national resource, is to start these activities, is to be an operator and, for this reason, housing is to be created at a rapid pace. That's when I made it clear that this program was impossible, that it was going to be a disaster. And right now we see that the Prime Minister is taking this on, because it's obvious that this program has no chance, there's no way of doing it. Why isn't there a chance? There's no way? Well, you can read the script I was talking about here at the Senate meeting. I'll start by saying there's nothing you can do without money. The Minister, as I recall, said this program would be costless. The whole point was that the land would be transferred to the stock, e.g. land in perpetual use, then it will be transferred to an operator who will pay only those 15 and 25% values, then this will be repaid in instalments for 15 and 30 years. But what's important? We need an operator to take care of this. The pilot program that is being prepared is to be run in a city in Jarocin, which is actually famous for its... I know the mayor well, and I know how he got involved. There 400 apartments will be created under this pilot programme as a result of the joint actions that have been undertaken. But this is a pilot program. I'm not going to develop it, although I know the case well and I'm sure these 400 apartments will rise. Only that the idea is to create some thousands of apartments, because we in Poland, on average, have been building, giving up, I don't know, about 150,000 apartments, so we can't talk about 1 000, about 2 000. If the program is to be implemented, it must be some thousands of new apartments. There's a pilot program in place, but I don't know about any agreement with an operator. TBS was there, so it was easier for another operator, especially a private operator... What is this operator supposed to do? Well, this operator is supposed to build. Then in the middle of the building he will have rent free, and in the middle he will have normalized, because it is the President of the Council of Ministers, if I remember correctly, he will determine the rental price. This rental price, as we know from analysis and from press releases, will not be low, and the operator will be bound by this price for 15 years or, at the time of purchase, for 30 years. In my opinion, this is, of course, an impossible task. It's gonna be hard to find an operator. You can already see that if these apartments rise, they're just trace amounts, nothing more. There's no big deal. This is why we now have an idea for a rescue: the President of the Council of Ministers will take action, appoint a council, all ministers, the head of the national bank, the head of the legislators, as we have said, who will also work there, and take action, carry out changes that will make these apartments... I do not mind, therefore the amendment I tabled concerns only point 1. If the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, wants to take on this responsibility and he's gonna have to settle this... Of course, a difficult task, because at the moment you can see that the changes that are being made are being made because the program does not work, does not work and does not bring the expected benefits. If he wants to take care of it, of course. It's his will. As the Minister said, it is a good custom not to disturb and, of course, we will not disturb. Only then will we ask what it looks like. By the way, I am curious to see the Minister's answer to the question of how many contracts are signed in Poland at the moment, how many thousands of apartments and what plans are there, what the realization looks like, if it is already, as announced, I do not know, 5 The first part, of course, concerns aesthetics in public space. On this subject, as I have already said, at the committee meeting, of course we also discussed this... Maybe I can move one thread because I'm looking at the clock, and I can see that I'm not gonna make it anymore because of the time. I'm gonna bring up the zoning plans. Senator Jackowski asked why not everywhere, not all over Poland plans for spatial development are being developed. They're not, and they're not going to be developed because it's not going to pay off. It is not worth making land use plans for non-urbanised areas. They're called. The clothes, the decisions about the construction conditions, which in these situations... There are laws that speak of a good neighborhood, which the senator also asked. It is, of course, regulated in these regulations. But these regulations also deal with other matters. As far as the spatial planning plan is concerned, the relevant voivodship monument conservator has the possibility of shaping buildings and land development. It's all clearly written down in the bill right now. I wouldn't be surprised if it was added that it should also take into account the aesthetics of public space. This is one small fragment in this whole construction process, etc. And I wouldn't be surprised. However, articulating this completely separately means that in the case of each spatial planning plan we will have to take it then... there will have to be some participation of the ministry in the case of e.g. the spatial planning plan. It's already unimaginable to me. It's hard to imagine. So some tools are, only eventually you need to sharpen them, show them. There is also the Act on Revitalization of 2015. There's tools in there, too. In the first case, we're talking about reconciliation. In each law it is slightly different, but in this program revitalization it is also. There's also so-called. Landscape Act. We remember when it was loud, it was a proposal from President Komorowski. A long, long-standing debate on this subject too. A lot of things are settled there, too. In general, we remember that what hurted us the most, that is, advertising... that in this landscape act it was also regulated. Therefore, there are some tools that could be used, possibly change something, to articulate this aesthetic of space. Moving this whole aesthetic issue to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage in such a way that he will take care of it, that he will deal with this extensive topic as he is... Because the wording of this paragraph 14 in the amendment of the Administration Departments Act concerning the Minister of Culture clearly states that this is the shaping of the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, etc., that is, all the issues involved. Therefore, it is difficult to imagine that some ten - person team in the course of these transfers will deal with this kind of issue. Of course, today we're just talking about that, that's what we're thinking. The Minister said that... Minister Lewandowski had just said that there would be a review of the law, that this review would take place. In my opinion, this order should, of course, be definitely the opposite. First you had to do this review, articulate what you might have to do... [[Time's up.]] I'm just finishing up, last sentence. Therefore, there will, of course, be further proposals for changes after this review. To conclude, it is appropriate not to burden the Minister of Culture and Heritage with such a large issue that is impossible for him. That's why there's a motion to delete the first part and leave the second part. Let the President of the Council of Ministers, if he has time for this, deal with housing in Poland and, of course, we will not disturb him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u73	You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Looks like a simple and trivial bill... As Minister Lewandowski said, at a time of some reorganisation of management, we must give credit to trust. I agree, too, and I share that view as an axiom. But I need to share some insights into the matter we're talking about. Minister, with managers, it's not like the minister says the manager is coming, he says, let's do it, and that's how it's gonna be done. There's an ad where the manager comes in, and what you do shows people what to do, and one of them's looking for a better job. Well, there are these kind of managers. Today's world shows how we work in the management and how we proceed so that the crew participates in the process of managing and creating the products we manage. And now a few more words about the general public. Ladies and gentlemen, during the election campaign, Law and Justice promised or said that it would reduce the administrative burden in terms of costs, the number of people. So I want to read you some data, because maybe you, as Senators of Law and Justice, do not know that there is a certain area in which we have had a huge success in Europe, and I think it is also in the world. It is about the number of people working in the administration and the growing administrative procedures that I will talk about in a moment. Now, all I'm gonna say is, as far as the vice ministers are concerned, we're over a hundred. Only Hungarians have a better score when it comes to the number of vice-ministers. For example, in Germany, in a slightly larger country, with a larger budget and probably bigger problems, there are 54 of them. And I think you're going to admit that 100 is less than 54 again. I often put this kind of mathematical data in public space, discussing social media, and you have some problems with math and equations. Well, now that you're talking about cutting it down, today we have the largest number of vice ministers. Besides Hungary, maybe, because they're the ones we're taking the example of. Well, I guess something's wrong. Well, maybe we have less ministers. If the vice ministers aren't gone, maybe we have less ministers. I want to tell you that in this case, only the British are ahead of us because they have 44 ministers, well, fantastic. In addition, there are 23 to 14 of them, e.g. in Germany. I'm not gonna read any more numbers. If management is to be about increasing administration, this is not a good direction. There is always the following correctness: the more administration at any level, at municipal, district, voivodeship level, and God forbid any further expansion of state administration The worse it is for the citizen, worse for the economy and worse for the state and its functioning. I would also like to say that, as part of these savings, you have built for 2 years 11 new state institutions, starting with my beloved National Institute of Freedom, which as a government organization is to coordinate NGOs. Only Hungary and Russia, only these two countries have such institutions. However, I would suggest not to take the example of the management of the country from the countries I have mentioned. This expansion of administration is dangerous in itself. This may be part of reducing unemployment, but today unemployment is falling due to economic development, and the expansion of administration, ladies and gentlemen, is also the expansion of documentation and administrative procedures. That's what Senator Florek was talking about. If, from now on, representatives of the central administration, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, will watch over the aesthetics in our municipalities if these 10 people coordinate and say what should be done to make the country more aesthetic, then it is better not to. That's what I thought. If one of you was employed in the municipality and worked on resolutions on the spatial planning plan, he knows that every additional element in the government agenda extends the procedure. I'm not talking about the fact that it's increasing employment. Now 10 people in Poland will watch over the aesthetics of the country. So what do we need architects, urban planners, etc., all these people who are studying in this direction? Take the Ministry of Beauty! This is Orwell's encore. Listen to how cool this sounds: we're gonna take out all the zoning departments, architecture, etc. And we're gonna call the Ministry of Beauty, which isn't 10, but 110 officials. I'm sure the effect will be better. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about the fact that this is all about the three ministries now, the land-use law, the landscape law, etc., etc. Well, you've got to shorten your decision-making process, Ladies and Gentlemen. In many countries, local authorities are fully responsible for this area, and the state creates only a framework of responsibility, gives some guidelines, etc. And you want to entrust this to 10 people. Every project will go to them and we'll be waiting for opinions. I can tell you now whether the citizens in Poland will be waiting for this. They will build, and we will fight against illegal constructions in Poland and this Ministry of Beauty will become the Ministry of Administration for demolition. Well, this is the first field. The second field is also very important from the point of view of Poland. Namely, it's about housing. Of course, I agree with the fact that the ministry, which has been doing this to this day, maybe it has been done badly, although I personally believe that there have also been some successes. But I don't think so because Minister Smolinski and I come from one voivodeship, just... Well, I'm not gonna quote now whether or not I'm talking about a lot of instruments that I think they're gonna work out are gonna work. Speaking of which... The Minister spoke about improving the effectiveness of the scheme. Minister, as I asked what was to be corrected, I heard: we will coordinate better... And you're calling the Housing Council. Senator Kopeć, whom I wanted to congratulate on his election as president, seems to have already gone to this council meeting... What I'm trying to say is, if you don't know what to do, it's the council. There used to be this country of the Councils. That's his name. There was plenty of advice there. If they wanted to harvest the grain, they called the grain collection council, and if they didn't know how to start the tractor, they called the tractor starter council. You're doing the same thing. You expand the administration, extend the decision-making process, instead of flattening it, bring it to the level of the commune, farthest to the level of the voivodship. You're expanding the administration, and that's not gonna work. I personally believe that management, changing management are managerial issues, but what you present in these justifications and in the discussion in the High House, this is not management, it's just sorry, I don't like to use the word "partying." You manage Poland as party property The central office knows better how to do, how to carry out tasks concerning space aesthetics, architecture, urban planning. I'm not even talking about housing anymore. To conclude, I would like to say that, as far as I know, so far, I am talking strictly about this programme as part of the Not a single apartment has been transferred. Of course, many of the apartments under government support were transferred to residents, to people who applied for housing. This shows the important thing that in most countries, we are moving towards supporting instruments, not building housing directly by the state. But as for this, we can have a discussion, have different opinions. I want to say, "Managing, yes; partying." No, no, no, no, Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the second item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. The text of the Act is contained in print No 713, and the report of the Commission In print No 713 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Act on the amendment of the Act on Insurance Distribution adopted by the Sejm on 26 January 2018. At yesterday's meeting, the committee considered the bill and asked the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution, to adopt it without amendment. Maybe in two sentences I can tell you what the purpose of this bill is. The European Parliament and the Council, in their Directive of 20 January 2006 on insurance distribution, to be implemented by Member States by 23 February 2018, requested 16 Member States to postpone that deadline. The European Parliament also recommended this. The European Commission has given a positive opinion on the delay in the implementation of these provisions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And that's the purpose of this bill. On behalf of the committee, I ask once again that the High Senate adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u77	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, one question. You said you asked 16 countries. I understand that they did not have time to implement this solution into their systems. Was Poland also among these 16 countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u79	Yes, Mr. Senator, 16 countries have turned... I reached out to the news, that's what was not our country in this 16th.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u80	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Mr. Paweł Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry... [[Minister Nowak.]] I'm sorry. Minister Nowak is with us. You're not going to speak. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[There are no volunteers.]] No one volunteered... [[If you're well prepared, it's going fast.]] I'm opening a discussion. Any of you... [[No one signed up.]] No one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code. The text of the act is contained in print No 723, and the report of the committee In print No 723 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held yesterday. At the meeting of the committee, the law on the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code was examined. This is a very short amendment to the Act, aimed at extending the deadline by 31 December 2019 for the municipality to provide a tenant who uses a place that needs to be emptied due to the need for demolition or renovation of a building, a replacement space and the cost of moving. These obligations are incumbent on the municipality responsible for the location of the premises occupied so far if, due to the need for demolition or renovation of the building, the lease contract under which the tenant paid the regulated rent has been terminated. This regulation is to apply until the end of December 2019 and refers to situations in which the lease was terminated before that date. The law is to enter into force on the day following that of its publication, with effect from 1 January 2018. A few words of clarification regarding the course of the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, the department director explained that this amendment was intended to safeguard the interests and safety of tenants, tenants, because the regulations so far expired at the end of last year. Therefore, such an initiative. At the committee meeting, the senators asked questions about the deadline for submitting this draft amendment, as the deadline had already expired. The second half of January at this moment is already, so to speak. The Ministry's representative indicated that work is underway in the Sejm on a comprehensive solution that will regulate the provision of replacement premises to tenants. So this is really a temporary, temporary solution. No amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. The bill was voted unanimously, 7 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. And, as in the course of the Seym, the bill did not raise any controversy. I therefore request that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u82	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Kazimierz Smolinski is present, but resigns. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one volunteered... Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u83	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question. There's actually an episode article here, which means there's a certain date to which it's supposed to apply. And we're re-introducing the episode article. Wouldn't it be better to simply introduce the unlimited operation of this article? And as soon as the next act is passed, he's likely to repeal the entire act. What's the point of replacing one date with another date? And if we don't make it again, it'll be the third date. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u84	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u85	Mr. Marshal, the Senate, of course, could be put in place such a solution, but it would be contrary to the very idea of this provision, which stems from the fact that by 2001 the public economy was in force... Well, maybe it wasn't a public house economy, because it was until 1990... but there were still contracts with so-called. regulated rent in the case of private resources. Private individuals had old administrative decisions and they were in force until the date of entry into force of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, which we are amending here. And when this rent was freed, it was to compensate owners who couldn't manage their resources freely for many years, had very limited rents from tenants, so they couldn't repair, make some investments on these premises. This was the justification for the fact that for several years the obligation to provide a replacement premises in the case of renovation or demolition would rest on the municipality, i.e. that during that period the municipality would provide such a replacement place. And it was considered that for a dozen years This compensation should be sufficient. Well, the situation on the housing market is what it is, we all know it. Here, in this respect, the government had no initiative. Previously, and now, a group of Members has made such a request to extend this obligation. And the Sejm accepted that this obligation should continue to rest on the municipality, so that the municipality, in the case of those old regulated rentals, would have to accept this obligation. Of course, at some point in my opinion it will be necessary to give up the transfer of this obligation to the municipality, since the owners mentioned have already increased their rents since 2001, and they are often already market-oriented. Of course, not always, because the technical condition sometimes does not allow market rent, and courts protect the interests of tenants when it comes to the fact that this rent is not excessive. But these owners can, let's say, accumulate some capital just to make repairs. And that is the point where we will stop transferring this obligation to the municipality. At present, Parliament or the Sejm considered that this obligation still needs to be transferred to the municipality, since the owners are still not sufficiently wealthy, they often do not have additional spaces that can serve as replacement rooms or replacement apartments, which must be delivered to people during renovation or demolition. And so there are such situations, that e.g. There's a demolition order, there's a danger, there's a danger to the tenants, and the owner has no other place besides this one or several premises he has to empty. And the municipality, despite the problems, can, however, provide such a replacement place much easier than the owner, who usually does not have any other resources. This is often the case with old resources; in the case of new developers they often build new ones, so they have the possibility to transfer such a person if such an obligation exists, but there is no such obligation in respect of these old ones. So I think that this is a legitimate solution, all the more so that in a moment the High Senate will be dealing with the bill which is currently in the Seym, i.e. a major change of the Act on the protection of tenants, financial support for municipal construction, where we provide local governments with funding for the provision of replacement rooms. So far, local authorities have not had such support, and this law provides The work of the subcommittee in the Sejm is already taking place Additional funding for both renovation of municipal resources, which are often excluded from operation and for renovation or construction of temporary premises. And then perhaps it can be considered that in such a situation the person concerned for this short period of renovation or demolition No, however, the demolition usually lasts longer. He'll get a temporary room to return to his original place later. So I'm thinking That this solution is good for today. As these new rules and municipalities will be given additional resources next year, and this is a significant resource, this problem should start to be resolved and maybe it will be resolved by the end of 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u86	Minister... excuse me, Senator Czerwiński is asking another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Don't be silly. Don't be silly. Don't be silly. I have an extra question. I'm not questioning the sense of it, I'm questioning the question of why the next limiting date. The point is to make it a dateless one. The problem will solve itself... What's the next limiting date for? So, what, we're gonna cry every two years? If you're actually right about what you're saying, and I'm sure there is, then the problem is self-solving... By the way, he's not that big, because the justification is that there are three cases in the middle-sized city. Yes? Well, that's about it. Shouldn't you just leave that date... I mean. Cut her out of the recipe, but of course leave the recipe?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u88	Mr. Minister, supplemental statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u89	Thank you very much. As for the scale, we do not know it exactly, we have provided only the data we have, because the municipalities do not keep a separate record when delivering spare premises from their own resources and from private resources. Where this distinction is, this data we have, and this is a small scale, but that does not mean that in other municipalities which such replacements provide, this problem does not occur. It certainly does not occur on a significant scale, because even this provision of premises in municipal resources is not big, so it is not a big social problem, but for every person who has to leave the room, it is a life problem. So the social problem in such an individual sense is. But it's a matter of... Mr. Senator, it's not like this problem is gonna work out. The problem of supplying replacement premises will always exist. And there's a point at which point we're going to consider that this problem doesn't exist, that the owners are able to deliver these premises. And we'll never know it. This is a question of political evaluation, whether we already acknowledge that this problem does not exist, that the owner can deliver the premises or whether the problem is still present. For today, I believe that this problem exists and the owners may actually still feel that they are unable to deliver... And the Members have decided to extend it. We as a government, as I say, do not interfere with this because we believe that today we could already consider that, for several years since 2001, owners have already been able to aggregate these funds to compensate for this earlier period. But others think otherwise that this problem still exists. That is why I believe that it is necessary to limit the time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u90	Thank you. The senator's done. The question is Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I take the opportunity that the Minister is at the podium... It was a parliamentary project, Minister. We know that there is no consultation in the case of the parliamentary projects, but I would like to know if there was a position of the municipalities, because they are the ones who are burdened. And there are also the removal costs related to it. On this change, a two-year extension, which is right, because we all voted in the committee's meeting to extend this period of protection. And the question is... I asked the director, who was present at the committee meeting, about having a legal title for another place. Because there was an amendment tabled in the Sejm, but she did not pass "Wouldn't it be appropriate to ask for this title at this stage, with an extension of two years. 'Cause I know from experience, it came out on the housecleaners case. What legal titles were given to individual residents of a given building. It turned out that there were different situations: someone built a house for himself and subleted the apartment; he didn't live, he had another... It would be an opportunity at this stage to try to explain whether someone has another legal title or has another apartment. 'Cause if he does, why would he get a replacement apartment and use that kind of rent? Why didn't you accept this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u93	Mr. Senator, the problem of availability of spare premises is obviously a complicated problem. Just because someone has a title for another place doesn't mean that this place can use it, because this place is often on the other side of Poland. E.g. I have my daily life concentrated in this village, I have a job here, children go to school here, they learn, and I have an apartment on the other end of Poland, so I would have to move there for one year and come back here after a year. In my opinion, this solution would be very unsocially unjustified. That's one thing. And two, is this place available? Because there are situations that the owner is conducting an eviction trial from his apartment, but he can't evict that person because she doesn't have... Well, there's a legal dispute, and sometimes it takes years. Technically, the title to another place is, but in fact, there is no availability. And a person like that wouldn't be able to get a replacement, because the owner would say, "I'm not gonna deliver a replacement, 'cause you have a title for another place." Yes? Would this place be ready to live? We don't know that either. So that would generate additional costs that could lead to... Sorry, additional problems that could lead to a life-threatening situation. Because if a building is subject to a demolition decision, it means that it must be abandoned, and here is a dispute as to whether a person has the possibility to live elsewhere or not. That is why there is this provision so that the municipality has this obligation to provide such premises, because the municipality has a much easier way to do so. And we, as if in order to meet the expectations that the senator is talking about, in this bill, which, I hope, will also enter into the Senate's deliberations, we introduce an option to deprive a person who has a decision whether to use the municipal resources to reside in them, if it has a legal title to another premises in a nearby village. And the municipalities will determine what the nearby village means. We don't want to define it in kilometers or in any other way. What is a nearby village will be determined by the municipality council depending on local conditions. Yes? 'Cause it could be different. Sometimes such a nearby town can be far away, sometimes close. And the conditions of communication... We leave it to the municipalities. Of course, the municipalities... I mean, there was no consultation here, but because the ministry has been dealing with this problem for many years, and in recent years too, we know that the municipalities would be happy to get rid of this problem. Yeah, of course, they wouldn't want that burden on them. But this burden exists, as I have already said, for several years and municipalities within the framework of the general subsidy they receive, have the opportunity to compensate for it and should have such premises within the municipal resources. Therefore, we are not imposing any new obligation here, we are simply passing on this dozen-year-old duty, which rests with the municipalities. He is still, he remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u94	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Kazimierz Smolinski: Thank you, Mr Marshal, High Izbo.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm saying no one signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 714 and the report of the Commission In print No 714 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 26 January 2018 amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. The Act is a further step in the reform of economic law following changes to the Commercial Companies Code and new restructuring law arrangements. The legal arrangements are also intended to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on certain aspects of company law. The amendments adopted on the one hand aim at making it easier for the parties at the start of business, as well as in communication with the court, and on the other hand are intended to result in a significant acceleration and improvement of the operation of the registry court, including the integration of central registers, commercial registers and company registers. The reform of the National Court Register covers a wide range of technical changes which will fundamentally change the functioning of the Ministry. The most important of these changes are: the introduction of an obligation to submit financial statements in electronic form. The electronic form of financial statements is intended to increase the possibilities for the development and analysis of the data contained in these documents; the creation of publicly available electronic files of entities which will include all documents submitted to those files by a party and documents produced by the court; the introduction of an obligation for entities that are included in the register of traders to submit applications to the register only in electronic form in order to facilitate communication between the party and the court and speed up the recognition of applications; the provision on the Internet of full data on entities included in the National Court of Justice, in addition to the current copy which is already available on the network, will also be possible to obtain a full copy from the register. According to what was said at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions by the Minister present at the meeting, this law, adopted by the Sejm, was a government project that introduces a real IT revolution in Polish judiciary, because here is the whole procedure in the economic departments of the National Court Register will be conducted by the electronic system. Yesterday, during the work of the committee, as I said, Minister Michał Woś was present. The Legislative Office for yesterday's committee meeting did not draw up an opinion in writing, although the legislator was very careful about this law. He pointed out that the law does not raise fundamental legislative doubts. There were doubts about the date of entry into force of the law, but at this stage, during the work of the committee yesterday they were clarified. The committee therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment. All the members of the committee were in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u96	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without repeating what the rapporteur said, because he really described all the advantages of this law perfectly, I would like to ask the High House on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the Government to support the bill. The law is not controversial, it is not political in the sense that there is no political dispute; it is a 21st century law. I think that in Polish judiciary it is such a proverbial first swallow of real informationalization of the justice system. The fact that this bill is publicly supported The Sejm and the meetings of the Sejm and Senate committees show that this is probably the right direction. And I strongly ask that she also find recognition of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u98	At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I declare adjournment until 3 p.m. And now there will be communications.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u99	I kindly inform you of the sixty-second meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which will take place on 31 January, which is today, at 1:30 p.m. in room 182. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 56 to 16 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u100	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In accordance with the previous announcement, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Act on Museums and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment, the printing of Senate No. 722 and considering this item as a point of the sixth agenda. If I don't hear... But I can see it now. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As we announced with Marshal Borusewicz at the meeting of the convention, we would like to appeal to the marshal, the whole House, to give himself more time to reflect on this law. This law is an expression, I assume, of our common concern that historical truth should apply not only in Poland but also abroad, and that we finally have an effective tool to fight against the historical lie, which is the accusations of Poles and Poland that Polish extermination camps, sometimes called Polish death camps, are on our territory. This is obviously not true, and there is probably no one in Poland who would agree with this statement. Therefore, this law must be effective, the law must be effective and enforceable. Here, in the House of reflection, what is the Senate, Mr Marshal, we would ask for a little more time for this reflection. Only so that this law is better in order to actually hinder or prevent the use of this concept abroad, who have bad will or are not taught, are we asking for an extension of the time needed for the debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. We have an objection. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of my proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance? I'm not reading the whole title of the bill anymore. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 54 votes against, 25 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was brought in by the Senate Marshal and is included in print No 711, and that the report is in print No 711 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. On 29 January this year, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure for its first reading. The committees at the joint meeting on 31 January of this year considered the draft resolution presented by the Senate Marshal at first reading and asked for it to be adopted without amendments. Thank you. This is a report. [[Already?]] Yes. This is a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u104	Oh, good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicant. I remind you that the applicant has authorized him to represent Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Any of you... [[Senator Libicki.]] Senator Libicki was the first. [[Voice from the room: No. Before that, there were colleagues...]] [[No. I was the first.]] But I saw your hand first... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The photocell was gone. Senator, you will be the first to speak, then Senator Rybicki and then Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u105	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask you whether you do not believe that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure may lead to the fact that the Senators will not exercise their mandate freely to some extent. Because if the result... We are proceeding with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure because in the Senate, at the previous session on personnel, we had to deal with this, not the other result of the vote, and it appears that this matter will be voted again... At the same time, there is a process to change the vote. Don't you think that's how you want to put pressure on senators to hold their seats in a nonfree manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u106	Thank you. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, of course, attended a committee meeting, even submitted proposals. The report does not show how the discussion took place, what were the questions, what were the doubts There were a lot of them. I'd like to ask the senator about one thing I've questioned by making my motion to reject the motion for a resolution. Namely, the point is that in April the Supreme Court Act will enter into legal trading, which will impose powers on the High House... on the Senate to choose the jury, and this election will take place in a secret vote. Was this subject raised in the discussion, and were there any arguments that perhaps it would be better to wait a moment with this amendment, to wait until this matter, as far as the Supreme Court Act is concerned, will be considered? The idea is to do this in a thoughtful way, in accordance with the principles of correct legislation, so that it is preceded by a deep reflection on the whole issue of secret voting, if there is such a clear need for legislative ordering of these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I, unlike Senator Libicki, am not a member of the committee and, after listening to your report, I believe that there was a very turbulent discussion at the meeting. But could you, as part of the report, present the discussion that was at the committee meeting, not what you discussed at the club, because... well, I see what was the discussion at the club... I'd like to know what was the discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Senator Libicki asked me if such a change in the rules of procedure would affect the fact that the Senator's mandate would not be exercised freely. I do not believe that, after this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, the mandate will be held in a non-free manner. It assures me that probably most Members believe that they are free to exercise their mandate and that such regulations are in operation in the Sejm. As for the question of Mr Rybicki, Senator Rybicki, I can say that this topic was indeed addressed at the committee meeting. It was said that we would stand before the jury's choice and whether it would be appropriate to wait for this change to be made. Then the person representing the applicant, me, replied to the senator that we were able, if such circumstances arise, to adapt our regulations to the laws. And that there probably won't be any problem with that. This thread that the senator was talking about actually also appeared in the statements of Senator Ziientarski and another Senator. And as for the question and inquisitiveness of Senator Czarnobaj... Of course, after giving a statement of reasons during the deliberations of the joint committees, the senators asked questions, asked what were the reasons for this submission. The arguments in support of them were also expressed during the discussion. They also spoke of concerns, such as those expressed by Senator Libicki, that by such regulations, i.e. the removal of the concept of secret ballot from the Senate's Rules of Procedure and the determination of how the Senate will determine the confidentiality of the deliberations... They said that this and for historical reasons, and because of the separation of the Senate as the second chamber of parliament should not take place. The Senator rapporteur and the applicant's representative reassured the participants that this would certainly not affect the seriousness of the Senate and its functioning. He also expressed the hope that the Senate would continue to be different from the Sejm and the way in which it was conducted, and a deeper discussion both during plenary sessions and the work of the various committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Me too.]] Senator Fedorovich. Then you're Senator Jackowski. [[Senator Czarnobaj still wants...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you know, there are doubts about the mode in which this change of regulations took place, and the time in which it took place. There is always a suspicion that we are trying to change the law or regulations for some leader's party manager. It's awful. I don't like it in politics. Maybe someday we'll understand that this doesn't make sense. But now tell me if you've talked about it... Well, you know, the secret of voting has its root, very deep. This is due to the principles of democracy, but it also does not cause tensions between individuals in our own group. Well, there were some reasons for the senators who were laying down these rules. Were such doubts raised at the committee meeting? If not, I'll report it. It's probably not gonna change anything, but does that mean... That'll be the last sentence. Does this mean that I will always have to vote openly on personal matters now? I just don't like it, that's all. Well, I don't like it. This is extortion. on me, grown-up man, chosen in a one-mandate district, to abide by some strange principle that has no cover in pure democracy. That's it. [[It was at the committee meeting, Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u114	Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u115	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm still gonna try to get some out of the committee meeting... [[Try it.]] Please don't take this personally, I just want to feel the atmosphere of your discussion. [[That's how I understand it.]] Because I understood the senator's statement in such a way that the only and crowning argument for change is to adapt the legislation in the Senate and the Seym. Were there any other arguments? As I recall, I think you're the Marshal who's applying for this revision of the regulations. Were there any other arguments for such a change?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u116	Mr. Senator Bang. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm dropping the question because you've actually exhausted it at this point.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Senator... No, if there's no question, it's Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, even though I attended today's committee meeting, but I would like... I don't know if that's the question: what happened after 30 years that suddenly we have to change the rules? Have there been any significant, moving events in society that suddenly come back to this? I'd like you to say 'Cause you told me that the committee was unanimous. How the voices were decomposing, because as far as I know, she wasn't unanimous in favour. [[Is that okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u118	Yes. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Senator Fedorovich mentioned here the principles of democracy. These issues in your speech, both in the round of questions and later in the discussion, were discussed by Senator Zientarski. As for the tension, I'm not the authority here. Perhaps, but here I read your later concerns, in parts similar to the Senator's thinking, it may cause some tension. If we accept these changes in the Rules of Procedure, I answer the senator's question. Yes, this will mean that voting on personal matters will be public from now on. As far as Senator Czarnobaj's question is concerned, was that the only reason that in the Higher House... I personally believe that this is one of the most important reasons why we should make such changes, because citizens do not understand why the Sejm is voting openly on the same issues, but in the Senate these votes They're classified. In addition, I believe that the very important argument is that we aim to ensure that both public authorities and those with public functions, including those with choice, are transparent. That's how I read democracy... It is also an element of democracy That is to say, access to information about how representatives of society represent this society, also in the case of votes. We have an example from recent weeks that there have been a lot of questions, a lot of misconceptions about how one of the senators voted on a case that was raised at the last Senate meeting. It is also extremely important that, in voting on personal matters, if it is a public vote, we will not lose our free mandate at all, nor will we answer to anyone else, except and exclusively to voters, who expect reliable information from us, through, for example, the media, what position we are taking, what decisions we are taking and how we are fulfilling our mandate and the vows we have made, including this mandate. As far as Senator Dowhan's question is concerned, I did not create the Rules of Procedure 30 years ago, nor can I say exactly what was at the heart of such solutions and such a diversity of voting in the Senate and the Sejm. Probably at that time there were other reasons that led the senators of that time to be so. At the moment we are witnessing the development of society also in this context, that it has access to various forms of participation in the functioning of the bodies it chooses. There are various types of citizens' initiatives, different types of petitions, etc. This also largely concerns a certain transparency of public life. An indispensable element of this is the insight into how representatives of society implement their mandate, how they vote, even on personal matters. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u120	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u121	Apart from any doubt, Senator rapporteur, it is that the committee has been pressured by the Marshal of the Senate in such a way that it has immediately examined his view or his request. [[Voice from the Chamber: Commission?]] Rules of Procedure. [[And even two.]] Yeah, even two committees. The question is, what did you justify to the marshal is to bring it to the table in an emergency mode. Second thing. What is the situation in other parliaments, in parliaments considered to be open and light? Do the rules of transparency, full transparency of the vote apply everywhere?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u122	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u123	Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Please move...]] Mr. Senator... [[Jan Maria covered up...]] [[Back to your seat...]] That's what I'm talking about. [[Voice from the hall: Jan Maria disturbs...]] ...that I'd like to have some eye contact... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...with Senator Elephant. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Mr. Senator, you said there's basically no difference between the Sejm and the Senate in terms of the mandate itself. [[Free...]] So that the ticket is free and so on. Good. Mr. Senator, aren't public voting in the Sejm related to the fact that it is the Sejm who chooses the government and that the election of the government must take place in an open vote? [[Thank you very much...]] The Senate doesn't choose. [[Voice from the courtroom: But the marshal chooses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's the end of the question. Yes? Thank you very much... [[Do you understand, Christopher?]] [[Voice from the room: No more questions?]] No, I'm not finishing Question Time. I'm asking your marshal if he's finished asking questions. [[Yeah, I'm done.]] If that's the case, then you're asking Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u125	Mr. Senator, I think a little differently than Senator Jan Rulewski, who thinks the committee acted under the influence of your marshal. It seems to me that the committee acted under the influence of such self-defense of the PiS senators, who suddenly realized that the secret vote was being received in public by the public, and came to the conclusion that this vote had to be disclosed. I'd like to ask if there's a similar reflection. It was a bit strange for me, but it was acceptable for me to accompany the work of the committee. During the committee meeting and the meeting of the PiS club, did the senators come to the conclusion that they should reveal how they voted on Senator Rooster? Because it would be logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please, Senator, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski asked me what your marshal justified the emergency mode. The Marshal exercised his authority and submitted for first reading a draft amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure. It went through the joint committees. I didn't detect much urgency. As well-trained self-government and politicians, senators, we are accustomed to the fact that sometimes we have to pursue certain issues without undue delay. These are very simple regulations, all the more so because they do not raise any legal objections, and so we had the opinion of the Legislative Office. I believe that Mr Marshal also shares my way of justifying these changes, the need to make these changes to the Rules of Procedure. As for the question of Marshal Borusewicz, I cannot see the analogy between... Actually, no, I cannot see the need for this singularity in the way the Sejm chooses the government. I'm looking But that's my opinion, because these issues were not discussed in the joint committee... Is it necessary to consider such differences that the Sejm chooses the government, so there should be public voting, and the Senate does not choose the government, so should they be secret? That thread wasn't moved. [[Sorry, it was moving, I was moving it.]] Yes? [[Yes.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] About the government? [[Yes.]] I'm so sorry, I must have missed it. I'm gonna ask Senator Zientarski to come forward... [[I'll volunteer.]] ...he may have tried to develop it because I don't have a transcript and I can't recreate it. [[It was a vote of confidence in the government...]] It's me... [[...and the specifics of the Sejm...]] It might have fooled me because you were probably talking about a vote, and here was a simple choice... As for the question that Senator Wczyl asked... There was no story about self-pity, but, as I recall, I think there was a thread of Martyrology in the discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think that thread was about... 'Cause I didn't really keep up with the tone... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think he was just talking about the individual assessment and sensitivity of the senators. This was particularly evident in the statements of the senators supporting Senator Rybicki's request to reject the draft resolution in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u129	In fact, after the meeting, I've decided not to withdraw from the question, but I'm going to try to formulate it, not because I'm counting on your answer, and I'm not going to... [[And here I can surprise you.]] There's such a theoretical possibility. Probably, I don't know if it's included in the rules. That there would be a resummation of the vote because of some changes in the investigative process towards our colleague on whom we voted. Today, the media asked me how I voted about my fellow senator. I said I didn't reveal the secret to the vote because those are the rules, and I won't say it, but you can count them. Now let's imagine... Was there even a conversation about what it was, impersonalization? Because at one point in our House, thirty-seven Senators from Law and Justice voted in favour of picking up... with permission to arrest, but twenty-seven didn't, because it didn't go away. And now 20 people, my colleagues. Among them are mature men, wise men, professors... [[Question, Mr. Senator. Question.]] Was there a conversation about what it was like to break... What's breaking... What was I gonna say? Oh, the spine. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u130	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Comfort. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] If that thought we're talking about right now was blooming, as you said, regardless of Mr. Rooster's case, then why didn't it bloom when we passed the Supreme Court Act? Well, I'm very curious if such a reflection has emerged. That's one thing. Secondly, we heard today from the Legislative Office that we would have to change these rules when the Supreme Court Act comes into force. Because then we're gonna have to put in a secret vote. I would like to hear from the senator, where is this reflection that you have spoken of many times today, claiming that the vote must be public, because that is what our voters are asking of us, and that our situation is changing. [[Thank you, Senator.]] One last question, I'm almost done. [[Because it's been a minute, Mr. Senator.]] Just tell me one thing. If this is really a better solution, then why is there no draft amendment to the Supreme Court Act in the package with this resolution so that the choice of judges is also public? [[Good.]] It's just absolutely illogical... [[Thank you, Senator.]] ...from your point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u132	Thank you very much. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you one brief question about what you're saying. I think I have already understood the idea that you have convinced to support this proposal, but I would like to ask for your assessment. You spoke about this very important argument that Poles, our voters, do not necessarily understand the difference between the Seym and the Senate and the fact that there are such rules here, and here is one. Don't you think as a member of the Rules of Procedure committee that we should go even further and for example. to hold joint meetings of the Sejm and the Senate? It will then be much more readable, unanimous. And then there won't be any difference, you know. But there's a very important difference between the Seym and the Senate, and if we're trying to start blurring it, maybe we should have a meeting together. We'll be wasting less time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator... [[There have been three questions.]] Three were, okay. There you go. [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but I might be confused.]] Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u135	Senator Fedorovich continues this thread... [[...moral.]] ...torture. I'm not a torture specialist. There's been talk of self-bullying before, and now the senator's asking me about some kind of back-breaking. I'm not a specialist. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I know, but I'm asking you for an answer.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Quiet, please.]] When it comes to insubordination, I'm not a specialist either. I believe that most of these events take place as a result of the decision of the family court. I don't know if such a court order for incapacity can be issued to senators. That's a question for someone else. [[Who?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Thank you, sir. You've gotten out of the problem very cleverly.]] [[Continue, Senator.]] Senator Pociej overestimated my abilities, too, because he asked me if any thought had bloomed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: There's no way she's blooming.]] I have no idea. I'm sorry. [[Voice from the hall: This is a question for gardeners.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, but seriously...]] It can actually happen in some time that Mr. Marshal or e.g. The Rules of Procedure panel shall notify the need for amendments to the Rules of Procedure in connection with the entry into force of the Supreme Court Act. You asked me why it wasn't processed in the package. I have been authorized by your marshal to present this presentation, which is in print 711. I didn't ask your marshal why he didn't use the package solution. Besides, this would go beyond the work of the joint committees, which I am rapporteur. As for Senator Czarnobaj's question, should this not go any further, since we believe that these differences should be blurred, I also stressed in my speech that there should be differences when it comes to the procedure, and I personally value it very much. I suspect that most senators also appreciate the way in which laws are dealt with, the possibility of in-depth reflection, the possibility of in-depth discussion, the possibility of asking questions, also the fact that our committees are treated very subjectively and if they are working, there is no plenary sitting. I'm very happy with this formula. But when it comes to joint meetings, they take place at meetings of the National Assembly. Personally, that's my opinion, it wasn't the subject of the joint committee's work. I am opposed to such a solution, so that we may proceed over the laws together with the Sejm, because it would be generally tiring. [[You could meet Mrs. Pavlowicz...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Senator, many in this House have the impression or impression that this sitting would not have taken place at all if the vote on our colleague had been followed by the party and the marshal. Was such an impression discussed, or was such a view shared during the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Kilian. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The Senator of the rapporteur's question. Mr. Senator, is this decision by you and your options that we will vote openly... Until now, the Senate has been off the table... that we had the freedom to vote. Please give me the reasons that make us vote openly from now on. And you and I were elected in direct, secret elections. Do you think that we should bring about the fact that Law and Justice should lead to such a situation that each of our voters, when they vote, will declare who they vote for? Do you think that we need this situation, or should we simply retain this element of electoral ordination, passive elections... [[Mr. Senator, it's time. Go ahead and finish it.]] ...and not decide that we're going to declare how we vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u141	Thank you kindly. I would say this: I would not be disturbed by a public vote in personal matters, especially when it comes to, for example. about temporary arrests, because it's being discussed. In the case that caused this... Then the discussion lasted for several hours. But we secretly vote on the selection of our marshals, vice marshals and committee heads. And here, this change is fundamentally disturbing me. In relation to these people, laurels are given, and people should be free to express their thoughts in this regard. I would be particularly uncomfortable if I wanted to vote against a candidate from my own group, which could happen, for example. during the election of the head of the committee. And I'll be embarrassed. Was this topic raised during the committee discussion?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u142	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Grodzki asks me here about the impression, the question of whether these changes and this meeting would have taken place if it had not been for this situation. Well, there are many examples that often sudden events, disasters... [[Voice from the room: Disasters!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're not... [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] ...too much to laugh at, because... [[Voices from the room: Disasters!]] ...some laws, some legal solutions do not predict what surprises us. And it would be a mistake not to learn from it. From a situation that took place a while ago two weeks ago? Two weeks ago, Marshal Stanisław Karczewski drew conclusions, and he had already announced that he would submit a draft of such amendments to the Rules of Procedure. It'll be my case, but if there wasn't a situation that we had to deal with in December and later in January, maybe it would look completely different. But it wasn't the subject of any discussion during the committee's deliberations. As for the question of Senator Kilian, it can be said that these elections of Members and Senators differ in mode, but both are secret, because they are also secretly elected. But these issues, i.e. the relationship between the mandate and the vote, the way in which the representative is elected, were not discussed by the joint committees. As far as I know, the oath of a Member and of a Senator differ literally only in detail, because there is probably a seat of a Senator, and there is a seat of a Member, a further part is the same. So we shouldn't differentiate it like that either. And I think that my statement on this subject should be completed by now. As for the questions of Senator Wach, it is indeed the subject of the election of the marshals, the Vice-Marshals, that the chairmen of the committee were raised, but in such a context that in the Sejm, mentioned here several times, the representation is chosen in an open manner, and there are no drastic signals from there that Members of these elections should regret or that any relations between Members become worse enough that representatives of one club cease to cooperate or talk with each other. I think that if these solutions in the Rules of Procedure enter into force and we are opposed to, for example. the election of a clubmate to chair a committee or vice-marshal, we will tell him either before the vote or after the vote, for example, to maintain a healthy relationship. That's it. [[Voice from the room: Bravo! I think these exams are...]] [[Hey, I don't think you believe that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka... [[But...]] Anything else? [[And that's what we're talking about with a friend.]] [[No, no. I wanted to ask...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Barbara Boris-Damian. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u145	Yes. Thank you. I'd like to ask. Maybe that's a bit of a Kafko question. Why isn't there an applicant in the senator's room? After all, he could answer a number of questions honestly and specifically, since he was one of us, the Senator, made such a conclusion. In this connection, the next question: did you comment at the committee's meeting on the proposal made by the Senator, the legislator? And what position did he take if he spoke? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, there are thousands of different NGOs in Poland, where authorities are elected, and they are all selected secretly. More even: in some cases, when the authorities of these organisations were elected in certain organisations, i.e. the elections concerning the authorities, and they were chosen openly, saying that everyone had full confidence in each other, the registry courts refused to register the authorities thus elected, believing that the basic rule concerning elections of different types of organisations had been violated here. Is it now, after the Law and Justice want to introduce the transparency of personal choices, including those concerning choice? Also the senate authorities... Does this mean that you recommend that you recommend to change the rules on this matter, and that we are simply eliminating secret elections in Poland as a rule that stood for freedom and democracy within the organization? More: Even in communist times, this principle of confidentiality of personal elections was respected. Whether it's always been the choices we wanted is another matter. Do you therefore completely change the functioning of non-governmental structures? [[Thank you, Senator...]] And the second question about it... not in this case, but because all the votes are public at the moment. Did any of your senators or senators, members of law and justice, at the committee's meeting, have any doubts about this, think you're going in the wrong direction, frame these doubts and say, "I disagree, I think there should be a secret personal election?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u149	I wouldn't want to... Mr. Senator, I don't want to bother you because these are basically questions to the senator of the applicant. But if he's not here, I don't have anyone to direct him to. I just want you to know that I belong to this organization. Previously I was in the Freedom Union, now I'm in the Civic Platform where all personal votes have been secret and are so far classified, including full secrecy, which is classified for all members... [[Voice from the room: Also before.]] And before that... It makes us not have a personal conflict, we can argue about the outcome of this vote, but... And you made me realize Senator Peter Wach with your wisdom and because of my experience in the Senate that I will be in great discomfort if I even want to be a senator in this situation. When I have to make a clear decision about my support for any marshal... [[Senator, ask me a question, because it's been a minute.]] [[Voice from the room: That's what...]] That is the question: don't you think that the Senators of Law and Justice should vote against the entire draft of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure? Because it's mostly about them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u150	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka... I do not know why there is no applicant, but he authorized me to represent him in further work on this project. The second question is, did the legislator say what he said? Yes, the head of the Legal Office has said that it does not raise any objections to the law. He also answered the question, because I could not recall an article from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in which there is an equivalent provision concerning this decision on the confidentiality of the proceedings, but this is as far as the article is concerned. 172... he said that, too. And I don't remember any other comments... I think he was still talking about individual senators' questions. As for the questions that Senator Klein asked, I was looking at you and wondering if you believed what you were saying or not. [[I believe in 100%.]] Exactly. Robert Dowhan: I confirm.) [[Talking in the O.R.]] As far as I'm concerned, the Senate is not a non-governmental organization... [[Voice from the room: But for others it is...]] [[Don't argue. Let the senator answer the questions. You're welcome.]] I don't think so either. But it goes beyond the work of the committee. I want someone from my political community to go in the direction that you are suggesting, that is, to change the right to elections in these non-governmental organisations. [[It's important...]] As for Senator Fedorovich's questions... [[There was one more question I had about whether at the committee meeting...]] Yeah, I wrote it down. Did any of the Senators of Law and Justice have any doubts? Only the opposition senators had doubts in overwhelming numbers. I don't recall any of my clubmates expressing any doubts, but they're in the middle of a discussion. As for the questions asked by Senator Fedorovich, this is where the senator is again putting me on a huge test, thinking that I am aware of how the Civic Platform elections are going. I don't know for a penny, but sometimes I see the effects. I think the effects of the Sejm recently were that three Members who voted differently were removed from the club. But it's just my loose observation. Besides, I can't comment on your problems at the Civic Platform elections... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Whatever... that wasn't the question.]] [[Quiet, please.]] And there was a question about... well, I didn't finish... It was about whether they should vote in full, Mr. Senator, as if you were kind... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But this certainly was not the subject of a joint committee, so I will not answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u153	Thank you very much. My question is perhaps naive... In my experience, every resolution or bill that is sent to the Senate has its reasons. There is no justification for the resolution we are discussing today. And that's the first question. If this were to be the case, we would know the intention of the applicant, and yes, when there is no such justification, the draftsman of the committee may not fully know these intentions, even though he was authorised by the applicant to represent him. This is the first case. Second thing. Does our Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, provide that each senator has the right to submit a draft resolution or bill without helping himself with club signatures, others, etc.? Well, then maybe it'd be easier for us to process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Does the senator want to ask you a question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u155	I thank you very, very much for this example that you have mentioned concerning the 3 members of the Civic Platform who were excluded just after the public vote. Thank you very much for this example. There are purely political votes for which discipline is managed, and there are worldview votes for which at least such a sentence has always been on the Platform. No discipline should be introduced. Our vote, if you remember, was based on the assessment of the material collected on this matter. I'm talking about the vote two weeks ago. Don't you worry, and don't you see that just introducing transparency when political sanctions can be applied to senators for voting differently... And you had a very turbulent club meeting before that vote. Doesn't the senator see that this is, well, so to speak, across our free assessment, as if the court said, evidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm quite serious, very serious... You said about the crash, recalling the events two weeks ago... [[No, no, no.]] That's how I figured it out. I would like to warn you and ask you to answer such a question: was there a discussion about the specific treatment of Polish parliamentarians, specifically Polish senators? Because, I believe, Mr. Senator, no disaster has occurred. I think that each of the senators present there, who had previously convinced tens of thousands of Poles and Poles, made a wise and conscious choice, from which he would not have to account for himself before his political leaders, but he would have to deal with his own conscience. And my question, Senator, is very serious. Why are the leaders of the political party Law and Justice trying to use the authorities of the state to settle political settlements in Senate benches, Senate of the Republic of Poland? Don't you think... Was there a discussion on whether the State apparatus, the democratic institution of the rule of law would not be used for political settlements? We're also talking about a particular person, one of us. That's the choice we made. [[Thank you, Senator. Time's up.]] We're all responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u158	Thank you very much. Here you go, Senator, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u159	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka asked for a justification which she thought should be attached to the draft resolution amending our regulations. I have been authorized by your marshal to be his representative at both the first and second reading of this presentation. The justification perhaps... the justification that you would have given to the marshal would certainly not be different from what I am trying to present to you here. As to whether one senator can bring... yes, one senator can take such an initiative. As for the senator's questions... [[Excuse me. Which one's the rule book? Which paragraph is that?]] I don't have the rules in front of me... [[But I do, so maybe we should look.]] I've got it. It's an art. 101 concerning the applicant to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate: The amendment of this resolution may take place at the request of the Senate Marshal, the Senate Bureau, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs or at least 10 senators. [[Thank you.]] This is the entry for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So the marshal, one person, could have done it. The issues that Senator Pociej mentioned in his question were not discussed at the joint committee meeting. Also the issues that Senator Slugocki spoke about... As far as the summary is concerned, this term appears several times in the statements. Senators were very concerned about conscience in their decision-making, including personal voting. Please excuse me from answering the second question concerning some attempts to use, etc., because this was not the subject of a joint committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u161	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, first of all, I'm sorry. [[Question, Mr. Senator. Ask me a question.]] But, Mrs. Marshal, let me use my minute, if I may. You interrupted me, which means I have an hour and a half. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So... [[You've got a minute from here. There you go.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Don't you think? This is in the context of this report That the courage among the Senators of Law and Justice stood firm or stood firm? During the secret vote, you defended Senator Rooster with your votes. I'm not prejudicing his guilt or not, because it's none of my business. All I know is that he did good things when it comes to the environment of people with disabilities. After what you want to introduce today, there will be a decision. As I understand it, they will. New charges that will allow Senator Stanisław Rogut to move from here or elsewhere in accordance with your guidelines, which are the guidelines of your leader or applicant. Don't you think after the committee's meeting and the break of the spine? We're in the same business here... [[It's been a minute, Mr. Senator.]] One second, Mrs. Marshal. Let me finish. It's about breaking the spine. ...that this will result in the next public vote among those who voted against because they had the right to be reversed because of the party guidelines? This is unacceptable! This is outrageous! You can't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u162	Thank you. Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u163	My question is similar to Senator Duda's question. Senator rapporteur, don't you think that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is meant to lead to a situation that would lead to the vote of law and justice to put Senator Rooster in jail? Do you think it's right or wrong to change the rules that we want to introduce in order for Senator Rooster to be put in jail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u164	Are you Senator Florek? There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u165	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll go back to picking the Supreme Court jurors because it's coming up. If I recall correctly, this is probably April 3, 2018, which means that there are 2 months left. Senator rapporteur, I have a question for you. If we adopt this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we vote out, how are we going to vote in two months when the amendment comes into force... excuse me, the new Supreme Court Act, we're going to vote by choosing the Supreme Court jurors? Will it be a secret vote, or will it be a public vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u166	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Duda asked about the issue of cheap courage and the question of whether the case... As far as cheap courage is concerned, this thread was not discussed at the committee meeting, but it was discussed that perhaps what was happening at the moment with the changes was reported by the opposition senators. It is related to the fact that the case that we spoke about 2 weeks ago will come back and that we settled 2 weeks ago. I don't know anything about it, which is why I'm not giving reliable information here. I can't answer the question of proportions, about who defended and who didn't then, and what it would look like in other realities. As far as Senator Kilian's question is concerned, I will not answer either because the answer to this question goes beyond my knowledge and beyond the scope of the joint committee meeting. As far as Senator Flork's questions are concerned, the thread that the Supreme Court Act and the election of the jury will soon enter into force was raised several times, including by Senator Rybicki. After all, I think that was the main reason why he saw some unnecessary haste in making these changes. He said that we could wait with these changes and perhaps try to make such changes along with regulations related to the selection of jury. The Director of the Legislative Office assured me that with the Senate's Rules of Procedure being adapted to the new legal conditions, there would be no problem. I can also say, based on my observation, that we're handling this very well. If there is a need, we can quite efficiently and effectively lead to legal regulations as laid down in our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[I'm sorry, but I want to ask, because there was no answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u168	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, Because you want to ask Senator Duda, too. Ask around, huh? Is that a new question? [[I'd like to ask.]] Ask around. There you go. And then Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, did the key issue sound during the committee meeting: why is this amendment? Is she related to Senator Rooster's unit situation? We all think so, and many Poles too. Is there any other reason why this change could be justified in this way and in these circumstances? Was that raised at the committee meeting? That's the first line. And the second is as follows. I'll do it again. You've defended the state. I'm talking about the Senators of Law and Justice. In secret voting, what is crucial is that every citizen, including the senator, should have the right, in a situation we know about, to respond without the need for arrest and isolation. Are you in this situation? I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. And that's only as far as Senator Rooster's situation is concerned. Were there any other reasonable reasons to make such a change to the rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u170	Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u171	Mr. Senator, I didn't get an answer to my question. Because my question was whether, if you vote on this amendment tomorrow in the Senate Rules and it will come into force, then the jury vote, in accordance with the Supreme Court Act, which will enter into force on 3 April, will be secret or public. In the light of the rules in force, if you vote tomorrow on this amendment in the Rules of Procedure, what will it be? Well, I guess the answer should be clear here. Thank you. [[Again, Duda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u172	Senator Duda again? No... [[I'm sorry, I don't mean to barge in, but if your marshal will allow me...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u173	I'd like to ask if she was... I don't expect that, but I'd like to ask because I wasn't in the committee meeting. Shouldn't we vote secretly in this crucial and decisive case for the last time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u174	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal, as regards the question of Senator Duda, is there a connection... Mr. Marshal Karczewski actually immediately after the decisions that took place in January regarding the matter of the Senate's consent to the arrest or temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Kogut, expressed his wish to amend the rules and announced such changes. In order to confirm that there may be a connection with this issue, let also serve those situations that we have witnessed recently, i.e. the great interest of the public in this vote and the whole issue, as well as the statements of the individual senators as to how they voted. To a lesser extent we have all seen, because this situation has come to us as the first time in the House, as there are perturbations... maybe not perturbations, but what regulations must be taken to bind it all together, among other things because of the fact that there is this secret element of voting. Because we had to interrupt the committee meetings, and the plenary session, go through, move around, ask the media out, invite the media... So there's a relationship in this matter. But at least I in my senate practice repeatedly had questions about why there is a different mode of voting in the Senate, and another is... [[In the Seym.]] ...in the Seym. There's no good and simple answer to that. I tried to explain this in some way, also with historical events, but this argument did not find recognition in the eyes of my interlocutors. [[And he found it with my callers.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's how it could have been, Mr. Marshal. [[But with the minority.]] To the second question, about the isolation you asked Senator Duda, I cannot answer because it was not the subject of the committee. You will allow Senator Florek to answer Senator Duda's question immediately if there should be one last secret vote on this particular matter. This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. Mr. Senator is the first senator to formulate such a solution on our point. As for the question of Senator Flork, whether it would be secret or public, there was no discussion in this context at the joint committee meeting. It was just, as I said earlier, signalled as, in the opinion of some senators, a flaw, indicating a haste with this submission, since it would be possible to wait for a comprehensive solution, already in one package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u176	Thank you very much. Is Senator Duda here to ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u177	If your marshal... [[Please.]] ...will kindly allow, I would like to thank you for this opportunity. In my final question, I would like to address everyone, looking into the eyes of the ladies here, the senators of the Law and Justice... [[Or like when we had a committee meeting together?]] I am convinced, and I am very sorry that this is a secret vote, if the case of Senator Stanisław Rogut returns, it will turn against him, because of what I said earlier, which means that your courage will stand. You bring yourself to do this, so as to prevent a normal court-procurator procedure, etc., which is available to every citizen. You want to do a show here. So, Senator rapporteur, do you agree with me that if you vote on this amendment in the near future, then Senator Stanisław Kogut As I said, I do not prejudice whether he is guilty or not, because it is none of my business As a result, he will be brought into the role of a person who will be treated as a senator of the Republic of Poland in a different way than an ordinary citizen who would be arrested under such or other circumstances or even in a worse way? Can you address this and say if there was even a discussion at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u178	Okay, thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u179	Senator rapporteur, you are also speaking on behalf of Marshal Karczewski, who is the author of this change. [[Yes.]] But you didn't give a reason. Therefore, I ask you once again what you think this justification might have been. That question has already been addressed to you, and you have reported the discussion by saying that you are not the author. Yeah, but you're the author's representative. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] This is a major change, and I ask you once again what is the justification for it. Do you think a public vote in personal matters is better than a secret vote? If so, why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] Would any of you like to ask another question? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u181	Thank you very much. I was glad to know there were no more questions, at least for now. [[Voice from the O.R.: See you later.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Don't be so happy.]] I'm aware of that. Senator Duda raises, in fact, every question he asks, a thread relating to the situation that took place at the previous Senate meeting. This thread was also raised during the joint deliberations of the committees. There have also been issues concerning whether the prosecution's request for the Senator's case will be made once again in order to agree to the arrest or temporary arrest of Senator Rooster. As for how Senator Rooster would be treated or treated, and as for the other doubts that you expressed in your question, this was not the subject of discussion in the joint committees, therefore I cannot answer this question as rapporteur for the joint committee meeting. As for the question of Mr Marshal Senator Borusewicz, I have already said here that, although we do not have in writing the justification of Mr Stanisław Karczewski, these main elements of this justification are identical to those arguments which I am making. As the first element, it is probably important to point out what you are pointing to, which is this declaration by Mr... I'm recounting what you asked the marshal to do in his speech. As the first point of justification, it is necessary to state what Marshal Stanisław Karczewski said immediately after the vote at the last Senate meeting. He then expressed his opinion and announced that he would submit a draft amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure to make the vote public. At the same time, he pointed out in this particular case that it was wrong that such a decision was taken in the Senate, because all public persons and all senators should be treated by law in the same way. And that's the first element of justification. The second element of the justification is what I told the senators here earlier. It's about those situations that took place for the first time in the history of the Senate. 'Cause it was the first time. That is to say, meanders conduct voting procedures and secret and public proceedings. We've been through this lately, so we know what it looked like. It was raised by representatives of some media that it was a very complex procedure, but we all tried to ensure that it was carried out in accordance with the requirements of the regulations and in accordance with the law. As far as further elements of the justification are concerned, I also referred to this earlier about the transparency of the decisions of representatives of... public persons. Citizens have the right to be able to see, to be able to read the functioning of public institutions, as well as decisions, including votes, by elected representatives, i.e. Members and Senators. Here the justification points to the lack of strong arguments for maintaining the present state, a bit archaic, such that in personal matters, such as the previously mentioned elections of the marshal, the Vice-Marshals and the chairman of the committee, the senators vote in a different way, and in a different way. Members vote on the same matters, of course, concerning other people. In these three elements, we need to look at the justification of this request for amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure, which we are currently working on. And the question was, do I think public is better than secret? In the context of what Senator Florek was talking about, and before that, the other senators, that is, the law on the Supreme Court, and how it came into force. She defines the mode of jurors being raised... I do not want to weigh this in this way, because every vote has its own specific characteristics, and here too we will certainly adapt the rules, but on personal matters, on the issues covered by the matter of this submission, it will be better to take this 2-week experience and after very frequent contacts with citizens and media representatives. A clear way to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u182	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of the senator... [[Senator Rulewski asked that he be the first.]] I understand that Senator Sławomir Rybicki is enrolled, but for some reason Senator Rulewski would like to speak first. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go. Then you're Marshal Borusewicz. [[Voice from the room: Then later...]] Yes, but Mr. Marshal starts driving at 6:00...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the committee, at the meeting of the joint regulatory and legislative committee, I have requested that the draft resolution be rejected in its entirety. I intend to do so again in a moment. And I will briefly justify this conclusion, although the justification was made today when the senators raised questions and doubts in this room. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad day for the Senate because the Senate has taken up a debate, and I am sure that it will end this debate with a decision, under the influence of expectation, and I will say more: the demands of those who represent the Law and Justice, but those who are not members of the Senate, are not senators. We are making changes to the Rules of Procedure, which, for the past 30 years, regulates, as a rule, voting on personal matters as secret, under the influence of a demand and expectation directed from outside the High House. We are entering the area of the issue of free mandate today, and the concept of free mandate is enshrined in the Constitution in Article. 104 and in the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, who says that a parliamentarian, Member, Senator, is a representative of the nation and is not bound by the electoral instructions. And considering that... if he's not bound by the electoral instructions, he shouldn't be bound by any other instructions, expectations, blackmails or party instructions. This is the independence of the parliamentarian expressed precisely in the statement of universality, irrevocableity and independence of the parliamentary mandate, which enables him to act in accordance with his conscience during difficult elections as he is commanded by conscience, not suggestion or party discipline. Because this expectation and today's conclusion cannot be considered in isolation from what happened two weeks ago in the Senate. This is the obvious reason that we are trying in such a way to change regulations whose stability is a value in itself. Well, we're talking about our rules, the Senate's Rules of Procedure, we want to align with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. But why? The Senate is a separate chamber, an autonomous chamber and its practice of functioning has been recorded in the Rules of Procedure, which have been working well for 30 years. And what, under the influence of one particular event, we're changing that? For 30 years, were there not such events that caused such temptation to change the rules because the political situation required some quick response and adjustment to the need for the time? I'm sure there were a lot of them. Well, I didn't experience them because I wasn't a senator, but I can imagine there were circumstances that would be conducive to rapid change. It will be a mistake of the Senate if, in such a mode, under the influence of such impulses, without proper reflection, we change the Senate's Rules of Procedure in this respect and reduce the practical implementation of the senator's free mandate. Here too, and I mentioned this at the committee meeting, in my opinion, a mistake and a derogatory seriousness of legislation, correct legislation, the speed of this change and the failure to take into account other legislative needs which will be in the coming weeks, which are precisely related to the entry into force of this Regulation. Unfortunately, with entry into force The Supreme Court Act. This law actually enters legal trading on 3 April, i.e. in 3 months' time, and then we will be forced to change the Senate's Rules of Procedure, because the law that speaks of the Senate's election of the jury in secret voting is a higher order than the Senate's Rules of Procedure, which is just a resolution, our internal agreement. So we're gonna have to change the Senate's Rules of Procedure. And somebody answer me rationally. There was no marshal, and he wasn't at the committee meeting, even though I invited him. Why we do not reform, we do not change the Senate's Rules of Procedure with due consideration, taking into account all needs, including those that will arise. This is clearly an attempt to get out of the difficult situation that arose after the Senate voted to allow the Senate to arrest Senator Rooster temporarily, but that does not explain this haste and such legislative diarrhea. I am convinced that in two months' time we will return to this debate that is taking place today, and we will wonder why we have not done it, in colloquially speaking, in one swing and why we are debating this issue once again. I submit, Mrs Marshal, a motion to reject the draft resolution of the Senate amending the rules of procedure of a hasty, unprepared and driven by the current political impulse, the expectation of the political leadership of Law and Justice, and not the actual need to change the rules of our work on secret ballots. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the High House for the vote that took place at its last meeting. It is not only that the High House has agreed to the committee's proposal not to waive my immunity, but also, above all, that after many years in the Senate, I had this rare opportunity, who knows if it is not the only one to take part in such a decision made by free people, by free people who, according to their best knowledge, after getting acquainted with many materials and in accordance with their consciences, yes and not otherwise, also in my case. To be honest, in some of the elements, it was surprising to me. This thank you is, so to speak, such a bridge to actually oppose what is being discussed today by the High House, i.e. this sudden process of amending the Rules of Procedure. I'd say this is the script for soup. And what is this duck soup? This is nothing, because there is no such thing as in democracy there is no such thing that someone unhappy comes to the democratic Chamber and throws toys off the table. There's no such thing as this person. We're talking about Jarosław Kaczyński here. She blamed the Marshal of the Senate, who, after all, declared in all the media in the world that he had voted in the right way. Moreover, he even submitted to the High House that she is be. Be, because she made the wrong decision in the vote. At one point, I thought that the Senate Marshal would come to this criticism of the Senate's being dissolved out of fear. But I'm sure he'd be innocent about that. Seriously speaking: I consider Mr. Marshal Karczewski's speech not only as an expression of freedom of expression, but also as a violation of the rules or the right of the Marshal to represent the Senate. In my opinion, the marshal should simply pass on what the High Senate decided in those votes. This duck soup is dessert. What is this dessert? Dessert is that here is Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński saying this: after all, we do this in the name of political transparency. Well, I didn't notice that from Nowogrodzka, when the government and other institutions of power in Poland change, there was a broadcast to get the results of the vote live from there. As I've heard, there are no votes at all... But this is a party matter. Although the party is also a social subject. [[Public.]] Well, he also says And that's what dessert is all about. That society will finally learn how individual senators vote. Or maybe there's another option? He could propose, given what I am saying, that this is such a free vote to move this solution to the Sejm as a standard, not export solutions from the Sejm to the Senate. But I understand we have a difference of opinion. And this dessert is not about the need for transparency, it is, of course, about the fact that his leash is broken. He broke his political leash and lost his orientation about his colleagues about what they're capable of. But let's leave that to him, too. He directs this opinion, of course, to the electorate of the reader of the Super Express and similar tabloids. Well, please note: if we secretly vote on today's Commercial Companies Act, would it interest anyone? No. Even Mr. Kaczyński wouldn't be interested in that. The entire Senate has rejected this bill. I'm saying that this attention is addressed to his electorate, who is very much in love with Super Expressie, tabloids, but who likes to watch not what a woman looks like outside, how she's dressed, but what she's wearing under her dress. Well, in all this... [[And that's the publicity.]] ...Mr. Kaczyński wasn't about showing Mr. Rooster's silhouette, it was about what he had in his pockets. Right? And using this post really, that dessert, he decided to move on with his outrage to our privileges, I'd say... [[Voice from the Chamber: What privileges?]] ...for our luxury, for our luxury, which has been discussed here a lot. And the luxury is to have this free ticket, and to be able to choose not only from the opponents of the best candidate, because there could be two of them... After all, there may be partyless senators who submit their candidates for marshal or ombudsman. Luxury was that we could actually do it away from all pressures and instructions, and above all, And this, unfortunately, is a feature of the political class. Servilism when a vote is used to suck up to a chief or a chief. You may not believe me, but I've watched for decades my political life, how great people could break in the face of the need to keep the status quo. It wasn't always justified. And this bill serves precisely to develop servitude among senators. It's also mentioned here who the senator is today. The senator, of course, is the one selected by the electoral committee, who will then get the majority in his district, but who, from this moment on, as the only one in this district, no longer represents only his electoral committee, and even the majority of citizens, only represents the entire district, including the opponents. Of course he's a representative of the whole nation, but he reports or reports in his district as well. And this false dessert is also true that people in the first step want to know how parliamentarians voted, especially what someone has under their dress or what this Rooster has in their pockets. I'm sorry I'm so personal around here, but the D.A. hasn't established it yet. [[Voice from the room: He fixed it.]] But what will be the next step of the electorate, the intelligent one, who deals not only with pictures? That's the question: well, why did you vote like that? So one way or another, the senator will have to report not only on how he voted, but also on why he voted like that. And to that question Mr. Kaczyński in his remarks, and Mr. Karczewski, who, being the victim of these persecutions, does not answer, doesn't he... [[Applause]] He's not answering... So, in my opinion, if this had to be disclosed, every senator should write a statement of reasons for his vote, so that the electorate would know what he was doing. But we do know that there are problems of different natures here. These are important, concerning conscience, when sometimes your colleague or colleague is deleted, Senator Sztark, I do not think of you. Because of matters of conscience, worldview, feelings, as well as others, customs, and sometimes you have more or less knowledge about a given person... And this means that this vote should be completely free, best in the elections for the High House, for democracy in Poland. Thank you for your attention. I wish you further democratic elections, including the rejection of these rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We are debating today Mr. Karczewski's request to abolish the secret vote on personal matters. Well, what I'm trying to say is... It's already rained from that podium. That this custom for 30 years, exactly 28 years, since 1990, was distinguished by the Senate. And so far, although various applications for the removal of immunity have been voted for, I don't think so, but for the removal of immunity with certainty, and there were various complicated cases No one has ever voted on this custom, a good habit, a good record of our regulations and did not want to change it. Today, such an idea appears, the idea of such a change, at the initiative of Marshal Karczewski. He does not appear as a result of an analysis showing that this long-term principle is simply a bad principle. He appears as a result of one particular case: a vote not on the abolition of immunity, but on the acceptance of the arrest of our colleague, Senator Rooster. And I would like to make it clear that proposing some fundamental decisions And this is a fundamental decision whether we in personal matters will vote secretly or openly on the basis of one case, one case is a bad rule, this should not be done and this should be done. If we were to change that, I would expect the applicant to show the entire sequence of accidents from which it would be clear why this way of voting is wrong. We didn't get that. We're even directly suggesting that this is because of this one case. The next issue, and I'm not saying this in... because if we can lift a secret vote on personal matters, it's going to be, in my opinion, a loss for the entire Senate, for the House as a whole. But let's spread it out, let's not look at the Senate as a whole right now, let's look at the political groups. It won't be a problem for the Senators of the Civic Platform. We knew how we voted, we know how we voted, and we did not decide on the outcome of this vote. It is the State, the Law and Justice, that you have decided that this result was not different, because you have 65 of the 100 senators in this House. So if this change takes place, first of all, we as Senators of the Civic Platform will not be the victims of this change, but the state as Senators of Law and Justice. Why am I talking about you being the victims of this change? Because in public space, this is the sequence of events. First, Mr. Marshal Karczewski talks about the fact that there will be a change of regulations, and in a moment from the law and justice community, perhaps even from Mr. Marshal Karczewski himself. I don't know. I don't remember. There is a clear suggestion that Senator Rooster's case will be re-voted. Well, since the first time Senator Rooster put his person to the vote and there was a definite result, then the way the vote changes and the case of Senator Rooster has to be voted again, it means that those who conduct such a thought course believe that by lifting the secrecy vote they will get a different result than the first time. It's obvious if we're using logic. So this means that those who have put these two thoughts into public circulation, into a public debate, believe that they will be able to lead to a situation in which some Senators of Law and Justice in this matter vote differently because the vote will be public, so they will not exercise their mandate freely. I would like to remind you that freedom of mandate is enshrined in the Constitution. So, in fact, those who are conducting this operation are going straight into some constitutional good are violating the constitution. Well, it's a constitutional delicacy, short and clear. And it must be made clear that here we will have to deal with such a constitutional delicacy. And finally, at the end of the day, because there were a lot of voices, especially at the committee meeting, that it was about courage and transparency... Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. Today we have journalists, we have public opinion. I don't know if you've been called asking how you voted, but I've been called. Tomorrow there will be an article in the Election Gazet, in which my declaration will be true, as I voted on this matter. If someone is really in favour of disclosure, then it's no problem, even if they vote secretly, they'll tell us how they voted, and they'll justify it. I'll do it. I did. I don't think most countries have a problem with this. So we're really talking about this small group, which, as a result of changing the way we vote on personal matters, will change its decision, which is going to be politically pressured, and will not be free to exercise its mandate. That's what I'm warning you to do, because I think if that happens, And, unfortunately, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that. As far as the senator's mandate is concerned, there will be a very bad, bad thing in this House, and I would even say that, from the point of view of the functioning of a democratic rule of law, it is dangerous. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u189	You may speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senate! Discussion of amending the Rules of Procedure is not just a discussion on a formal matter, it is a discussion on the position of the Senate. This is a discussion on whether we will be free to judge in personal voting or not. It's finally also discuss whether the Senate is needed or not And that is the question that citizens are asking themselves, and that is quite right. But first, I'm gonna start with a formal case. I would like to say that the Senior Convention meeting did not take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the letter on this issue, sent by circulation, received January 30th... Sorry, January 25th, and by January 26th was the deadline for an opinion. However, it was only 30 January, Monday, when the regulations were changed. So on Friday, I was going to review what wasn't there. I was supposed to be an intentional person, not a real one. Tomistic philosophy says it wasn't real. The opinions were being expressed, and I agreed, when the laws were to come to the Senate from the Sejm. But they existed, they were laws that were voted out or were to be voted out in the Sejm. In this situation, there was no draft resolution at all. This is a formal delicacy. That's what I'm paying attention to. But this is the formal side. Within 29 years 'Cause the Senate is running for the twenty-nineth year. The Senate was basically governed by the rules that were created at the beginning. What was the difference between the Seym and the Senate? It's included in this rule book. The difference is that the Senate is supposed to be a less political body. Therefore, there are no club appearances in the Senate, there are no club appearances planned. There are individual appearances of senators. Each senator has the opportunity to present his position within 10 minutes. And no one's gonna walk out and say, "Senator, I'm acting on behalf of the club." That's the Senate's idea, that was the Senate's idea. Hence also another way of voting in person. I'm not saying that voting rules outside this room are similar. This departure from a secret ballot in personal matters is an individual issue, it is rare. In fact, all economic, social, organisational voting entities are party voting and personnel voting is secret. In the Sejm, such a vote is public because the main personal vote is a vote on the appointment and cancellation of government or individual ministers, and it is clear that in this situation, when it comes to government or ministers, there must be a public vote because the government must be created. When it comes to deciding individual fates or individual assessments in the Senate, the vote, quite rightly, was secret, even so that it could be freely expressed in its own group. This is not, of course, about the ping-pong between the opposition and the government majority, but about the possibility for the senators to express their views freely within these two groups. And that was basically the main difference, this way of voting is the main difference between the Senate and the Sejm. There aren't many such differences. So I'm surprised you're Marshal of the Senate, instead of caring for the subjectivity of the Senate, to maintain or increase differences to show that the Senate is needed, another one decided to eliminate the difference between the Seym and the Senate. I'm just wondering... If we think that a public vote is better, let us introduce a public vote also in the general election: here is a card, here is a box, mark it, sign it, and that's it. Yes? However, we do not do this, and I hope we do not do so, because there is no principle of public voting at this level. I am setting an example ad absurd to say that leaving the Senate secret ballot weakens the Senate and weakens the position of senator. I am also surprised that one of the political leaders says: this is a scandal that the senators voted so, this is a scandal! What scandal? The senators voted according to their discernment and conscience, based on the material that Minister Ziobro presented. It was analyzed by each of us. And it's a good thing there weren't any party suggestions on this issue, that is, mostly. At the moment, after we have left this vote, we will vote according to the party rules: the majority will vote yes, the opposition will vote differently, regardless of the case we decide. The subjectivity of the Senate must be strengthened, the Senate must be separated from the Sejm, that is the reason for our existence. Otherwise, questions about whether the Senate is right to exist or whether the existence of the Senate is justified will become new news. [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] I understand that Senator Rooster, the railroadman, derailed the PiS on this issue, but I wouldn't want him derailing the Senate. We shouldn't allow this individual case to derail the Senate. And then there's one last thing. We're elected in one-mandate districts, which should also have some meaning. So this isn't just a party sign. Of course, he's important, but all of us... In one-mandate districts, people vote for us, for what we've done, for our personality, for our honesty. So I'm also filing a motion to reject this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. The significant thing is that the marshal, who is the initiator of this resolution, has not decided to justify this change. I understand that because it's impossible to justify. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u192	Most of the arguments that you have just mentioned to Marshal Borusewicz, I presented during the committee meeting in the form of a question, but I don't think it's going to be from the point of view of how I'm going to repeat or emphasize things, because they really are essential. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say immodestly that I have such a special role here, in the sense that I am in the constitutionalist community because I am a constitutionalist. And for years, I have been supporting... and cooperating with Marshal Borusewicz, fighting to strengthen the position of the Senate. Because at the beginning, in 2005-2007, there was a very serious discussion among constitutionalists about whether the Senate was needed. You even remember that the Civic Platform in 2005 was also considering holding a referendum on the existence of the Senate. And what happened over the years? What did the constitutionalists see? The senate's position has changed dramatically, i.e. strengthened, as a result of the vision of the Marshal of the Senate of the three term of office. Because it was the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the extraction of more than 200 judgments of the Court which were not executed. It was also a concept of filling in the constitutional gap when it comes to petitions. It's also a fight in your own group. In terms of maintaining the role of the Senate as the guardian of Polonia. It is published the directions of changes in the state position and function of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, from 2013. I've had the honor of driving... and this is my scientific paper. Look at what the debutantes are like and what the constitutionalists say. One of the professors from Łódź simply says this: I was in favour of the liquidation of the Senate and presented it in literature, but I changed my mind over the years, seeing what the Senate is doing, how effective it is, how effective it is. And that is what Marshal Borusewicz said, i.e. That we can't be carbons. Well, if one way or another, which isn't right either... There, in this publication, is a project that in the future, if there was a change of constitution, break away... i.e. adopt the so-called Czech formula: 6 years unevenly, so that there would be no political duplication... and every 2 years 1/3 of the composition would be replenishment. It's in the Czech Republic. Since we have one-off choices and the solution of the Seym is also the solution of the Senate, we are doing everything we can to show this distinctness. Well, I guess I don't have to tell you what it is anymore. 'Cause there's been a lot of words about it. The superiority of the secret vote on the open vote. It's not just about freedom. Let us remember that the pattern of Athenian democracy is ostracism, a shell court. What did that come from? Yeah, it's from... It was a secret vote. Independence. And condemning someone to an outlaw. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of Senator Rooster's kazusu, there were three completely distinct types of votes cast in the so-called. Name and personal matters. These are, first of all, immunity votes, i.e. immunity votes, arrests or arrests. A separate issue is also whether this should be included in the future constitution. I would like to remind you that our constitution was created in a situation where, pursuant to C.P.K. He hasn't arrested the court yet. He's arrested the prosecutor. Well, it was. But I'm skipping this case because it's a subject. for longer legal diwags. And there's also the matter of surrendering, so to speak, to the judgment of the Court of State. This is a separate issue, and one might wonder about it, but not now, not in such a situation, not under the hungarian. You might wonder if, in fact, you could say that in your own affairs. The vote should not be made public. This could be considered, but in no case in the case of the so-called. creation function. That's not my definition, that's the definition of constitutionalists, the creation function is the function of calling people to specific state positions. The Seym does it openly, of course. The Sejm chooses, and the Senate agrees. And look at this. We reminded you of this today. That, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, one vote has been decided. So there is no automatic duplication of political decisions. And it's what Marshal Borusewicz said. This is why the Polish pre-war period in the Second Republic asked the Senate as a less political chamber, which does not appoint a government, does not cancel the government, etc. We need to appreciate and preserve this value. And as it was said, this creative function concerns... Well, we've been added to the Supreme Court Act now, but it's also going to be a secret vote. I mean, it's about the president... [[...jurors.]] Currently the jury, but also the NIK. It also applies to representatives... [[...IPN.]] ...the National Radio and Television Council... [[...IPN.]] ...IPN, National Judicial Council, etc., etc. And the third issue It's a matter of identifying our internal organs. This is the third kind of vote. See that there is no such situation here as in the Seym, where there are five parties, several clubs, etc. There's usually two parties here. How's it look? See that it is very common that the marshal or the chairman of the committee receives 70%, 80%, 90% votes, disproportionate to the party arrangement. And that's the value. In addition, please note that the chairman of the Senate committee is not equal to the chairman of the Parliament committee, which is not elected. We don't have an institution like the committee bureau, and there it is. There's a committee bureau and the chairman's head of the bureau. And here's a one-man management that's secretly selected. Imagine that these are like three separate matteres that need to be considered separately, not to put everything in one bag, and, I would say, to cut off our roots, to lower our position and to show, as Marshal Borusewicz has already said, that we are actually unnecessary. Because if we're going to do the same thing as the Sejm, in the same composition and in an automatic way, then actually our existence is completely redundant. And I don't think that's what we're talking about, because we all declared that we would work for the sake of the Senate to raise his rank. And that's what we talked about at the committee meeting. Well, of course, neither the rapporteur nor anyone else on the side of the PiS has discussed it. We didn't get any serious arguments. It is not known why this applies to the whole, not e.g. It's just for immunity or... it's for... it's for... it's for Senator Borowski to talk about it, because during the committee meeting, it was also about that. That is why I say once again: I believe that today we should not change anything at all, but we should leave perhaps the way to a possible change in the issue of immunity in the future. But what I'm saying is, in the future, and not on request, so to speak, to resume the vote on Senator Rooster. Because this is an outrageous situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u193	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, as my previous speaker said, it is outrageous, because, I think, we are not discussing today the change of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, but once again there is a hearing on Senator Stanisław Rogut. This was the first time that a committee meeting took place before the vote. I attended this meeting. How diametrically different it was than today's committee meeting on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure! Then the law and justice colleagues came in with a completely different attitude, looked at the documents, asked questions. And those questions and speeches were really rational. We've been sitting for hours, and the outcome of that vote is clear. Everyone except one senator turned against it. And that's what happened at the committee meeting. The next court took place before the vote, when the leader of Law and Justice entered the action, when the voices appeared on television, in the media, in us, in the crouches, in the hallways, that the vote must be like this, not different, that there is a prikaz, there is an order. It was completely incomprehensible to me, because I think that's the kind of thing Especially when it concerns a man we know personally, but above all who is known for his extensive activities in previous years. There shouldn't be any pressure like that. Because I think there's been pressure on my law and justice colleagues. And after the vote there was another court, when it turned out that the majority had expressed such a will rather than another will. These senators expressed their will because they were not bound by the vote, they were not bound by any responsibility, unless only themselves, because not everyone later had the courage to ask who voted, to answer how they voted. And today, for the fourth time, we're back on the subject. For the fourth time, we go back to the subject and suddenly... There hasn't been any need for that in 30 years. And we even discussed today at the committee meeting that during the previous coalition, under the Platform and the PSL, there was a vote on Mr Bodnar's election as ombudsman and he passed one vote. And some of the Platform's colleagues also voted against. Everyone was free to vote. And even though this vote was secret, then everyone had the courage to say... Like Senator Libicki, who, before the vote, said openly that he would not support your spokesperson. And he had the courage to say it. He also had the courage, as he said himself, to give an answer to journalists, as he voted now. To me, it's when I look at what's been going on... Maybe I can't really speak because I'm much younger than my good friends, but you can really see in the eyes of the people you talk to... This is ridiculous, this is ridiculous. Well, it is, I'd say, a circus. Especially since today we are voting on changing the rules, and in a month we will have to go back to that. Because we know very well that we must vote in the case of the KRS, after all, secretly. Don't you see that? Does this Senate even matter? Here's the slogan that we're not really different anymore... And I wonder if the future of this House is needed at all. If we don't have autonomy, because today you're getting some smoke on Novgorodska and all of a sudden you want to crucify a man and you're looking for a way because someone has made one, not another decision, so... Come on, guys, how do you process like this? Those arguments that don't match... Today was a really turbulent discussion. I think two senators were breaking down, trying to say, well, yes, in fact, we don't agree, but what's bothering us is that suddenly it's supposed to be public. I asked the question on purpose twice. And I can bet with anybody today. I don't know what it is yet, but I'll bet, well, let's say, good coffee. That the outcome of this vote, if repeated, will also be a scandal... If this vote is repeated and the outcome is diametrically different from what it was, what can you call it? What's the difference... What's really gonna change in two, three weeks, each of us's position on the senator's case? Well, what's gonna change around here? What is this change in the rules today because we are suddenly debating and screaming because something bad has happened? It's known to be intentional. It's about one man. Perhaps later we will return to the old rules that have been in the Senate for 30 years, but I think it is really humiliating for us that we are even involved in this kind of discussion. And that this is happening right now, not at a time when it would be easy to get back to it. And that it has to be decided because you want to convict, judge, or show that one person or another has to be punished in one way rather than another. I appeal once again and ask that we not vote in favour of changing this rule because, as senators, we will really only ridicule ourselves once again, we will show ourselves to be led by the nose, that we have no opinion. Probably part of you will get sick when you vote on Senator Rooster, and part of you won't get there because it's gonna be hard to vote differently than it was two weeks ago. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u195	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll try to build my speech around two perspectives. From one point of view, I would like to talk about this matter, referring to the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, so I will try to look at the matter from the point of view of what the Constitution says about the senator's mandate, the Senate institution, the organisation and the work of the Senate. And besides, I'd say, on the other hand, how they look at the whole thing. - Mine in this case. The voters, because the vote on the motion to arrest and arrest Senator Rogut, of course, triggered a huge public debate, especially seen on social media. I'm just trying to be active in them, so I've done a lot of different polemics and I've had a lot of conversations. I had to make some statements because that's exactly what my constituents wanted me to do. They asked: why was it like this when I voted, why was this the result of this vote? As far as the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is concerned, it must be noted that in this respect, in which it speaks of the Senate... the provisions concerning the Sejm and the Senate are basically common. In fact, the political core of both the mandate of the Member and the mandate of the Senator, the constitutional guarantees for the execution of this mandate, the nature of parliamentary immunity of both the Member and the Senator, all these constitutional guarantees as to the nature of the elections, the fact that elections are secret, that elections are universal... The only difference between us is that the ordination to the Sejm is proportional, and the ordination to the Senate. The majority. In many cases, the Constitution speaks about these issues literally in such a way that it discusses the powers and guarantees of Members and finally uses, and finally uses the reference that, in the case of senators, these rules apply accordingly. And from this perspective, it seems to me that these secret ballots in the Senate And also from this perspective that I was talking about, which is from the perspective of my constituents. They appear as some kind of weirdness, as some strange relic. A relic that is characteristic not for modern democratic systems, but for some very archaic historical systems... [[Voice from the room: Don't overdo it.]] ...to meet e.g. A church conclave where there's no way... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[What's wrong with that?]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...where there's no mention of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I speak calmly? [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...where there's no way... [[Mr. Senator, don't pay any attention...]] ...the voters were judged by anyone, accounted for. They are accounted for by the Most High. Well, we are representatives of the nation in a democratic legal state, we come from choice. We also function, contrary to what you are constantly raising here, in the party system. Because regardless of the fact that you're raising the value of these one-mandate electoral districts, the power of the senator's mandate, it's enough to look at our hall to see that she's the emanation of the party system. The JOWs are preserving... [[It's true.]] ...the party system and it is always that when the majority in the Seym includes some political arrangement, in the Senate this majority is even stronger. I will risk saying that the vast majority of us, with individual exceptions in the form of independent senators, would not have been in this House if it had not been for this stamp if it had not been for the party sign. So let's go down a little bit when it comes to this Senate glorification as some sort of chamber where there are people completely independent of political parties, political programs, leadership. But first of all, the important thing is that, as Members, we depend on our constituents. And the voters. This is how it develops and it can be said that the development in this direction is consistent and continuous, demanding the greatest transparency of our actions. We simply have our decisions before the voters or, as others prefer to define it more widely, to account for ourselves before the nation. [[That's what you had to do before the Rooster case.]] And that is why, from the point of view of our voters, this situation was completely incomprehensible: why can't they in this particular case know how we voted? And it's not that we're going to talk about it in one medium or another, as we voted, whether we admit it or not, it's whether or not, like all other votes, they can look at it, see it on the Internet system, how we voted. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time for a new one to come in this area in the Senate as well. I believe that these open votes will only elevate the rank of the Senate in the sense that it will be even more transparent, even more transparent, in line with the standards which at this point are the majority in political, party systems. Because I also think it's a misunderstanding to refer to the fact that in some corporate systems or in some body type of university body, academic bodies are kept secret. It's a completely different kind of game. We are to be characterized primarily by transparency, transparency and transparency. And I think that if we're gonna choose certain values in a conflict, On the one hand, the value is raised here, of course rightly, in the form of a certain freedom of choice, freedom of decision, non-constraint of party instructions, etc., etc., but on the other hand we have on this scale to put value in the form of precisely this transparency, this transparency It's in this conflict. These two values should win this value in the form of disclosure. She's more valuable in the democratic system. We could seriously talk about maintaining this confidentiality principle, but in that case, if the Senate had been constructed in a completely different way. If we weren't from the general election, we'd get into the Senate, for example. as rectors of universities, i.e. as persons who, in having certain functions, automatically form part of the Senate. Yeah, then it would be logical to think about it. But at this point, Once again, I would like to stress that. With regard to the nature of our mandate, the way we choose, the way we are settled by voters or by the people, we are completely equals with the lower chamber, i.e. with the Sejm. There's no difference here. There's one more thing we have in common, which is our immunity. We are protected by exactly the same immunity as Members of Parliament. The principles of accountability for Members and Senators, i.e. the principles of repealing this immunity, are exactly the same. The system of voting on this repeal should therefore also be the same. This difference, in my opinion, has no substantive justification. I think that there is no justification, there is no argument to defend the secrecy of the Senate's personal votes from a constitutional point of view, but there is no justification from the point of view of our voters on this matter. I'm going to go back to that discussion that went through social media again. It was completely incomprehensible to our voters, it was a great surprise, it was clearly shown: here is a word that is often used in a different context. The extraordinary caste took the side of her colleague... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Or maybe someone just didn't believe in him?]] No one here in this courtroom has decided, Senator, about the guilt... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] ...Senator Rooster. His guilt will be decided by the court. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Exactly.]] The court was to decide whether there were grounds for his arrest and arrest at all. It may have been theoretically possible that we would have agreed to arrest and arrest, and the court would have refused to do so. It was the court's job to investigate this case. So there was no automation here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We know what the truth is, but we won't say...]] [[Gentlemen, keep your voice down...]] One last thing. From the point of view of our voters, it was absolutely decisive: would ordinary Jan Kowalski, who was not a parliamentarian, be arrested in the situation in which Senator Stanisław Kogut was to be arrested? All the legal signs in heaven and earth indicate that he would have stayed. [[Voice from the room: No, not at all.]] And here again, our voters see this situation as a curiosity, they think that we are not equal to the law. Therefore, I believe that we have a rather serious discussion on parliamentary immunity, regardless of this discussion about our rules of procedure. Parliamentary immunity is an extremely important institution in democracy, especially from the point of view of the opposition, but in the context of material immunity. I think that the evolution of immunity will sooner or later go in this direction to strengthen material immunity and minimise to a minimum the formal immunity which, from the point of view of society, is seen primarily as a way of avoiding liability for traffic offences and various strange... [[It's gone.]] [[There's no road anymore...]] Okay, but there's still some weird stuff... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...penalty, criminal... [[Mr. Senator, it's two minutes out.]] Okay, I'll put it to you. ...and other actions of this kind that don't see why They're under some kind of protection. So that I believe that this change is justified, that it will lead to the modernisation of the Senate and is very socially expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u198	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Elephant, answering some of the questions here, and especially the question of what actually caused us to come to such far-reaching changes in our regulations, said that this would happen if there was a disaster. So you have to tell yourself what this disaster was all about. Well, the disaster was that the Senate refused to judge, which I stress. Only to apprehend and arrest Senator Stanisław Rogut. That was the disaster. Why was it a disaster? Well, because President Jarosław Kaczyński recommended that you act differently. Of course he said that the vote is secret, everyone votes as he thinks, but he thinks we have to vote yes and yes. But we read all the materials. We're the ones who read them. Our debate today is necessarily turning into a debate about the senator, but we have no other choice. We read these materials and we had to ask ourselves: what is the purpose of the arrest of Mr Stanisław Rooster? What's going on here? He's given up immunity. He's ready to testify. The evidence's done. Four other people are under arrest, and there's no fear of foul play. Unfortunately, there was a suspicion that this was a political action, and I will not develop this subject, because I think all senators know what this is about. And since it's a political action, it's this opportunity to vote that serves to protect the senator from it. And it has nothing to do with equality or inequality against the law. This is a politician, a senator who represents a certain group of people, and if you want to take over-dimensional action against him, I emphasize: the over-dimensional of the Senate has the right to say no. And that's what he said. And what did it turn out to be? Then a private Member 'Cause that's what President Kaczyński called himself 'cause he said it was necessary to change the Senate Rules of Procedure, the Higher House. [[That's exactly what happened.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is humiliating. I'll tell you this: it's humiliating. I don't run away from discussing whether voting should be secret, public, which, but not under these conditions and not on such a request, and not at such an order. What, by the way, humiliates this House as well as, unfortunately, I say it with regret, colleagues of the Senators of Law and Justice. So much for this. But there's something to it. Namely It's been a little bit on the subject here. In fact, the issue of these votes is a matter of what the Senate is for. Those questions have already been asked, but I'll say it again. Well, after a period when the Senate was to control a very strong lower chamber, which had not been elected in democratic elections, that is, since the democratic elections took place, the Senate began to have problems with its separate identity. I mean. In fact, it became a place of fourth reading, correction. Of course, he's been added some functions, personalized. I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. approving different people, somewhere there choosing them and concerning Polonia, but when it comes to this, I would say, a systemic dimension, it was difficult to justify its role and constantly repeated questions: why this Senate? We spend 200 million PLN on this, and this is unnecessary, etc. Finally, after a certain period, we began Well, it took a while, and the senators who were in the previous terms of office know that very well. To develop a model. This model was that we began to become human rights defenders and good lawmakers. The origin of good law was the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, including petitions aimed at remedying the wrong law or inadequate law, and as far as human rights are concerned, it was a close contact with the Ombudsman, using his experience and his guidance on where the law is failing. And at that moment, a new picture of the Senate began to emerge. Unfortunately, what are we dealing with today? The Ombudsman is for the State I'm talking about most of it. Enemy number one. There's no way he's using what he's doing because he's a beating boy. We don't use it at all. The Constitutional Tribunal... I'm not gonna make him any more, I'm just gonna say he works like that, even though we heard he was working very slowly because you didn't want to do it, and he's gonna spin like a fryga. There's a third of what was for the previous one. 1/3! And yet... I will say this with pain, because I am a member of the Legislative Commission, we are not very happy to proceed with the drafting of new laws, which result from these few judgments. So we're already losing these two things. And now it's the third, not the most important, but it's the specialty of the Senate. As far as secret ballots are concerned, I will indeed agree that voting on immunity is a problem. Here secret ballots are a problem, because there is always suspicion that most of them are protecting a colleague. And it's misunderstood by society. This is without any doubt. Although I would like to stress that in this case it was necessary to speak hard, colleagues... That's what I'm talking to my fellow Senators at the PiS who voted as they voted, but they haven't talked about it in public before. They didn't say: we read the documents and we don't like the proposal. But the D.A.'s office doesn't have to be right. What does that mean? What is this, God's judgments? So it's a shame they didn't say that before. But I agree that voting on immunity is a problem. Although I would like to tell Senator Pęk that this may also work the other way, it may be that it is in the secret vote that colleagues from the same group will vote in favour of repeal and in the open vote that they do not vote in that way. Because they know a friend because, as they say, they don't want each other to ruin their relationship. So it works both ways. But let me stress again: I agree, this is a problem. As for the other secret ballots, what are we doing? We either approve candidates, or we choose someone. Because we're going to the Monetary Policy Council, we're going to the KRS, we're going to the NIK president, and so on. Well, even though we have a political arrangement, After all, it does not always have to be such a political arrangement, perhaps in the next elections it will be possible to make the Senate a little more diverse, this secret vote forces party management to submit such candidates who simply will not rise resistance in their own environment and who will at least be competent, on which nothing will be burdened. After all, we know very well that the disease of the party system is that often I'm not saying that always and everywhere, but that often The party management, which decides to submit candidates, extends people according to criteria other than the substantive criteria, in short. And of course, in an open vote, you have to vote in favour, you don't have the strength, no one's gonna stand out, and if they do, they're gonna get... After what, Senator? He's gonna get shot. And in a secret vote, he can express his views on this matter. And this vote, which was quoted here, in the case of the ombudsman And, as you can see today, a great spokesperson... But it was that the Civic Platform did not vote in full. And for the leadership of the Civic Platform, it could be a signal that we need to talk more in the future, we need to be thoroughly presented, we need to discuss it, and so on. That's why I think that when it comes to the other cases, it's not the same as in the case of immunity. These are our internal affairs. While in this case the elector may ask how it happened, why you voted so, why you defended your colleague, it is precisely in the case of the election of NIK president, members of the Monetary Policy Council, that the head of the committee does not have such questions. There isn't. You'll agree, won't you? These are our internal affairs, and that's what we need to keep. That is why I would like to make an amendment. An amendment which retains secret ballots on all those matters on which they have so far been applied, excluding immunity issues in a broad sense. I'm talking about the prosecution and the arrest and the constitutional responsibility. In all these cases, voting would be public and in other personal matters voting would be secret. Well? I was thinking that if there was a secret vote in this case, maybe the outcome would be different than when it was public, but maybe one of you would dare... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u199	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After Mr. Marshal Borowski it is not easy to speak, because a significant part of the content that concerned the identity of the Senate and our efforts in this area has been properly spoken. I've been here 13 years, so I didn't want to take up time, but I thought it would take a while to get in here and talk about my view of the situation. I'd like to start with this extraordinary detonator, which was a secret vote on the permission to arrest Senator Stanisław Rogut. Well, what really caused such a strong political response has shown what distortions it has been undergoing for years, and not only because of one fault, Polish parliamentarianism. The role of Parliament, the role of Members, the role of senators from their term of office is smaller and smaller. The Sejm's control functions are illusory. The Senate's control functions and authentically repairing the Senate are not too great either. We're in a process. It's been going on for a couple of years. In which the parties become leaders and parliament is the political base of the party. When I was here in the Senate, and the Platform was in charge, when there were secret ballots, I sometimes heard: we remind you that you are the political base of the government. That's how Parliament was perceived. Today you are often so perceived and so are we. And in this situation, the Senate was really trying to find a good niche to function and justify its existence. That's what Marshal Borowski was talking about. And I would like to say that very often, and I know it from the backstage, the initiator of this trend, this action was sitting here Marshal Borusewicz, who tried, having the privilege of accepting a lot once by one, once through the other part of the political scene, to do something more for the identity of the Senate. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to express my appreciation for that. Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about what was done. I would add that our zoom was directed to all control bodies, to the NIK, to the ombudsman, from there all the conclusions de lege ferenda we tried to take and take into account in our work. It was expensive, it was work, it was done in part... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Hey, guys, I'm really sorry, but... [[Calm down, please.]] Mr. Marshal, this is the fourth time I've spoken to Marshal Borowski, who has never once been able to hear this. I'm very sorry to say that. [[But now, Mr. Marshal, I'm sure he'll be careful.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] So this road you were talking about, looking for the senate's identity, it was bumpy, and it only partially led to success. It was only the beginning, because we still wanted to deal with matters recommended by the NIK, by the ombudsman and by other control bodies. Indeed. And bumpy because the political will of the Platform and the Senate PSL were deprived of influence over the care of Polonia. It was happening right in front of us. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's the point that things can be imagined, but I thought you couldn't imagine such a humiliating situation to force the Senate Marshal to report projects limiting his role. This did not happen in the case of Polonia, the marshal defended the Senate's prerogatives for as long as he could. He gave up, but not in such a way that he himself filed a motion to deprive the Senate of these powers. And here's the situation. Mr. Marshal asked Senator Elephant, and I understand that, I would even say that I understand this difficult situation of Marshal Karczewski. Senator Borowski used here for all of us senators, without exception, including the marshal, the words "happening." Yes, sir, that word must sound here. We're humiliated today because we're not trusted. We're humiliated because we're being deprived of our prerogatives. Leadership parties become populist and limit the role of state authorities. Don't you see that? Even outsiders can see it, who know who to go to in order to agree on something in Poland. Not only does the Senate cease to count, not only the Sejm, but even the government, but even the President! That's what leading the party's understanding leads to. This shifts to other parties because such leadership management makes it necessary to respond uniformly, that we cannot share, etc. That's the kind of voice... This is a total distortion of Polish parliamentarianism and Polish democracy. And this is just a flower... this is just one of the parts that we see that we're experiencing. Of course, the senators could be required to act courageously. Maybe in the United States, there are senators like that. I don't want to say they're not in the PiS, 'cause probably the Platform could miss them. [[Talking in the O.R.]] They might miss them, too. And the Senate can't be better than the senators who make it. And that is why today I am very sadly saying that where there is less freedom, where there is less democracy, where there are chief parties, there is no place for independence and there can be no place for secret votes that guarantee this independence. I would say this: if we were different, if the parties weren't facades and chiefs, but real... Do you know how many members are counting in Western countries of similar size as Poland? Hundreds of thousands of people, even millions of people. And how many members do we have? How many members do the party that governs Poland count? How many members are in the party that was in charge a moment ago? I would like to say that the young Polish democracy is under erosion, and this is unfortunately also visible now, in the vote on this issue. And I'll say it again... I will not end by calling for the Senators of Law and Justice to turn out to be heroes here, and on this matter, which is based on the issue of Senator Rooster, to vote in a public vote in the same way as they voted in the secret vote. That's probably not gonna happen, unfortunately. Let me tell you honestly that Poland will wait at the bottom after the remains of democracy and freedom are taken away from its citizens. May we not make the same mistakes and enter the same turns that we have been going deeper and deeper in our term of office, and now we don't really know how to get out of them. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the opportunity to finish my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u201	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! It's hard to speak when it concerns me personally. Here's what I'm gonna say. Although there's a lot I can't say either, because I have a secret, and I wouldn't want anyone to say that I've revealed a secret. But, ladies and gentlemen, what can I say? Many questions are asked by the ladies and gentlemen of the press. I don't do interviews anywhere. Whether it is a political matter or the main cause was the elections in the Court of Justice. I say I don't know. And I'm gonna say the same thing today without really accusing anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you of one thing... I can assure you that for the entire 20 years of my charity work, I haven't taken a penny from anyone, and I have a clean conscience. Maybe my mistake was that when it comes to helping poor people, as I said, I should be examined by psychiatrists because I had a huge urge to help and the need to help people in need. And that's what I'm saying in an open text. And that was my cardinal mistake, maybe. A lot of people come out here, criticize a lot, and I'm gonna say this in a friendly way: I wouldn't wish anyone to survive what I've been through these 41 days and nights. I don't wish that on the greatest enemy. I have no grudge against those who voted in favour of those who abstained. I'm sure you're grateful to those who were against it. But I didn't walk, and I didn't ask, because you had classified materials, so you could look at classified materials and really make your own opinions. I will certainly defend my own honor, my own dignity, my own good name and the Fund for Helping Persons with Disabilities, who have been helping for so many years and, I believe, will continue to help. I had so many famous politicians who weren't ashamed to come and see how perfect it was to help all the people who were in need. And today they kind of went the other way, forgetting everything, forgetting that I'm human, too. I'm not from the rock, and it hurts too when I saw some of the gentlemen come out after those votes in the media and say, "I've encouraged you to vote in favour." There's a lot of questions in my head. The criminal code should be the same for everyone, and getting people to vote for or against... well, I don't know about it, I really don't know about it, and I don't want to judge or slander anyone. I don't want to prolong the discussion. Like I said, I'd like to tell you a lot, but I can't because I'm a secret. I only wanted to speak because there were so many speeches about me. And I would like to assure you that I am prepared to defend myself in a court of my own dignity because I have given up my immunity right now. It wasn't like some gentlemen here say I protected myself with immunity. No, wait, that same day, I gave it up and put it in the hands of the marshal. It wasn't like I was hiding behind immunity. I gave up my immunity right away, and all the work could have been done. Like I said, I have a clean conscience because I didn't take anything for myself. I have such internal grief, because if I had snuck in, I might have stood here and felt differently, and if a man knew that in this rush of helping sick people, people in need, he might have made a mistake... I'm not saying I didn't make a mistake, but that's what independent courts are for, to determine whether I've committed it or not. He doesn't want to talk about later cases because I don't have the right to talk about it. Well, I don't want to be judged a motherfucker, but, Mr. and Mrs. Dear, I can see what action is being taken and in which direction It's all supposed to go, and that's why I won't say another word. All I'm really asking is that you accept that I'm not a briber. I'm not, I'm not, and I'm not. I've always accepted my constituents at the open door. I couldn't tell anyone, no, I'm not gonna take you in, and I'm not gonna help you. Because it's easy to say when you don't have a baby with cancer. If a wife, father, or mother doesn't need help, it's easy to say and it's easy to criticize. Today they say of me: yes, he's guilty, let's wash our hands. You can wash your hands like Pilate, convict me and really crucify me. This cross is very heavy, it's very heavy. That's all I'm gonna say. Remember, I've never been a briber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm resigning from this situation. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] Yes? Are you Senator Marek Borowski? [[I would just like to add that I tabled my amendment on behalf of myself and Senator Shark.]] [[It's already written down.]] [[Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Senator Elephant. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal, based on Art. 81. 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, please appoint the joint committees, of course, in connection with the amendment tabled, to prepare the report so that the vote on this item can still take place during the current Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u206	Miss Marshal, I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u207	Good. Senator Rooster has requested that the committees be scheduled for an additional preparation... [[Elephant!]] [[Elephant, Elephant.]] Elephant, I'm so sorry. That's tired. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I? I'd like to make a motion.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u208	I see the senators from the Civic Platform are leaving the room so there's no quorum. I'd like a 15-minute break on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u209	Okay, thank you very much. That's what I'm announcing until 7:46 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 31 to 19 minutes 46]] High Senate, I'm extending the recess until 19.51. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 46 to 19 minutes 51]] High Senate, resume your session. I'm holding a vote on Senator Rooster's motion... [[Voices from the room: Elephant.]] I'm sorry, Elephant. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. ...Senator Elephant's motion I'm so sorry. On the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. We're talking about a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I'm calling a vote. Who among you is in favour of Senator Elephant's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 53 senators, 51 votes for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] So Senator Elephant's motion was voted positive. As a matter of fact, thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Senator Krzysztof Słoń has submitted a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Act on Museums and the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 722, and the committee report In print No 722 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today at... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet in the room, please, ladies and gentlemen.]] Today, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, we discussed amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. This law provides that in the scope of the activities of the National Bank of Poland, there will also be cases related to the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and members of Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third German Reich and that the denial of such crimes will be subject to criminalisation. In addition, this law includes a group of provisions which concern civil law measures to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish people. The application for protection of a good name will be open to a non-governmental organization, which has it included in its statute, and of course the Institute of National Remembrance. In addition, the law defines as a public offence the imputation of responsibility to the Polish nation or the Polish state for crimes committed by the Third German Reich. In addition, provisions are added setting out the rules for granting grants from the state budget to finance tasks related to the care of graves and war cemeteries. The Act transfers competences regarding the award of a medal to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage from the President of the National Remembrance Sites. On 26 January 2018, the bill was accepted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In the case of this law we are dealing with very far-reaching criticism, above all from the Israeli authorities. The ambassador says that she was convinced that this would be voted on with some amendments. At the same time, in Kneset, we have very sharp wordings in the statements made by Members of Kneset. I would say that the scale of the problem shows a quote which I dare quote: "We will not allow the workers of the Holocaust to hide behind the Nazis and deny their historical responsibility. I think it's a quote that shows the essence of the problem. On our part, in this bill, some part of it is that such a false history cannot happen. On the part of the Israeli parliamentarians, I understand, it is a concern that this bill will be followed by some misrepresentation of historical reality. As for the bill, there were some allegations made at the meeting. There have been allegations by the Helsinki Commission that this is an unjustified interference in the way of expression, i.e. it defines this law as a law that will censor something, and believes that there will be a freezing effect of research, that scientists will be afraid to take certain actions. Although there is a provision which refers to the exclusion of this law in terms of scientific research and artistic activity. There was also an allegation that the penalty was not proportionate. Another charge is that there is a lack of precision in terms of wording, the fact that in the social sense we are dealing with a law which is to prohibit the use of the term "Polish death camps," and that is not included in the law. He was also accused by Senator Fedorovich of some legislative rush. It is worth noting that during the debate in the Sejm the law was extended, one can say about a component concerning the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and actually the debate in the Sejm focused on the issue of our relations and the assessment of the historicality of certain events in Polish-Ukrainian relations, there was no discussion at all about a different context of this law. Therefore, there have been allegations of bad dating in relation to possible prosecution of misdeeds about Ukrainian crimes, asked why the years 1925 and 1950, and there was a charge that there should be no Ukrainian nationalists, only the Banderites, the Ukrainian nationalists. And, of course, there was a charge of some counterproductiveness, i.e. that maybe this bill will not heal the situation at all, but will cause bad repercussions. On the other hand, however, it was shown that the growing phenomenon of quoting the conceptual constellation of the Polish death camps was observed in the world. This is most often the case in English-speaking media. . which, with the universality of English, has some negative effects. But also in the German media. In general, 258 cases of this type have been reported in the last year. And we must remember that such mistakes, slips of tongue I don't know what to call it. The world's largest. This was the case in the case of the award given to Karska in the performance of... i.e. President Obama told us about this. At the same time, it was emphasized that there is no possibility of such a simple limitation to the recording of Polish death camps, because very often some accusations are made to Poles in other contexts, it is said that gassed in Polish chambers, there were even cases such as the use of the recording cited here by the Polish SS. The issue of non-reaction and adoption as if very similar regulations of 2006, which did not later enter into force as a result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, were stressed, but the Court's judgment was linked to a procedural error rather than a meritum. It seems very important to me that the need to extend procedural legitimacy has been stressed. To date, the trials that were being initiated were based on the fact that this procedural legitimacy was granted because there was a former Auschwitz prisoner or grandson of the former Auschwitz prisoner, who thought he was being discussed and thus tried to pursue a certain historical truth. In addition, the existing regulations concerning the Auschwitz lie were pointed out and it was said that there were no exemptions related to science or artistic activities. In addition, similar regulations have been indicated in other countries, e.g. in the law of Israel. Amendments were tabled, which were more concerned with this component, let's call it Ukrainian. They are a repetition of the elements of the discussion in the Seym. Following a vote of 11 to 5, no one abstained from voting, the committee recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u211	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to be a representative of the minority of the committee who wishes to make some amendments to this law. I would like to thank Senator Oremski for this really meaningful report from the committee meeting, for his speaking also about the doubts we have presented. They were partly the result of my speeches as chairman of the committee. I have already said this, Mrs. Marshal, at the committee meeting and this appeal is addressed to the Senate Bureau... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Everyone, please be quiet, because this chatter is bothering us all.]] Please, please very clearly, or in fact I would like to demand that this type of law is all about the laws, but above all about the laws of this type. They were not tested in this mode. All these translations, that this has been on the Internet for a long time and that the Sejm has also been sitting in extraordinary mode, have no meaning to me. Well, you can't work on something as serious as this bill, Mrs. Marshal. She causes a crisis in Polish-Israeli relations, she causes confusion It's already going on. And it makes the whole street next to the Israeli embassy blocked, covered with the same fences as the Polish Parliament is sometimes guarded, which annoys me when I come here, and very much. We're sitting... I allow myself to quote the media that say the Senate can still save this bill. I'm trying as a representative of my club, but as chairman of the committee, I'm trying to make contact with the senators. . adults, mostly well-educated and with a lot of experience. So that we do not spoil what our predecessors have worked out. Because it is obvious that no one who is well-thinking wishes that words about Polish concentration camps and Polish extermination camps should be mentioned in the statements of people all over the world. But if there is no such wording in this law It suddenly turns out that we are getting a project that does not actually defend this right, that we are so badly harmed in a moral sense, and that it is a cause of serious, very bad for our country and a growing debate about whether Poland is not an anti-Semitic country. It becomes an opportunity to debate and to remind suddenly about the 20-year-old people who probably have never heard of concentration camps at all, because the story they learn in different countries is very often forgotten at all. And suddenly, wanting to save our pride And, of course, I agree with the value to which we are going, we are making a mistake that could probably be avoided if we worked under normal conditions. Mrs. Senator, I'm not a lawyer, I've often stressed this here, but it can't be that the chairman of the Senate committee to sit and give his opinion on such a serious bill gets information that the committee meeting will be held at 9:00 a.m. the previous day at 4:00 p.m. It's impossible, because if I'm gonna take myself seriously and seriously, And I probably deserved that choice of Cracowians. I can't do anything but reach for things that aren't documents to look for answers. I can quote the answers to the journalists' questions. And that's what I was going to do with my submission of amendments, which, of course, are consulted and passed on as amendments to my club. Well, if... now it is... Senator, I don't want to take up too much time, because this emotional part of my speech is as if it were spoken. However, if I am making amendments that are absolutely necessary to me, should I read them now, or should I just pass them here? Because I'm sure there'll be a discussion. There will certainly be a discussion, e.g. The kind of amendment we're giving... Here you go, an amendment to this... amendment... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 53o the word "non-governmental organisation" may be used for its statutory tasks to be replaced by "the Attorney General." Yeah, we talked about it. If there is a record in the law that says that it can request the implementation of the so-called investigation. The NGO, or public benefit institution, does not agree to this in normal civic thinking, because there is a whole mass of these institutions, different institutions use different ideas and this can lead to terrible confusion. What's the D.A.'s case for? That's one of the reasons. There is also a very important amendment, Amendment 1: 1 in item 1... etc., which in justification... As I say, from a formal point of view, this article is completely unnecessary because it talks about completely different things. But we're giving this amendment some consideration. Of course, I must say that the committee meeting was in a very good atmosphere, there was a working atmosphere. And it seems to me that if you reason logically and if there is a Polish-Israeli commission to investigate this case, to conduct this case... Well, I'm just asking why they shouldn't sit until we, according to what I'm predicting, pass this bill without amendment. This means that this committee, created from Polish-Israeli authorities, to mitigate the effects of this law and to bring about another reconciliation, will now try to translate this law? This is incomprehensible to the citizens at all. Of course, there's an amendment, most important to me... In her case, we received an answer from Minister Jaki. This is an amendment to this most important article. 55a. Who publicly and contrary to the facts gives the Nationals of Poland or the State of Poland responsibility or co-ownership for the creation by the Third German Reich of concentration camps and extermination camps... That's what we're writing as an amendment to this bill. In a way, this amendment narrows the possibility of prosecutions. I understand enlargement, but I do not support such an extension, for which it will actually be very difficult to prove any fault concerning the opinions about the various tragic situations that have occurred between, in total, brothers living on the same land for more than 500 years, namely the Polish and Jewish nations. I say this as a citizen of the city of Krakow. Of course, I will answer the questions, if they are addressed to me, I would just like to say one thing that I have the authority to say. This concerns whether a man studying history or an artist can be punished or not. According to Minister Jaki and the representatives of the Ministry, this is not the case. But I would just like to say with all peace and responsibility that I read Mrs.Katarzyna Zimmerer's book, this is a journal of the murdered city, the history of Krakow Jews during the occupation, from September 5, 1939 until the end of the war, this book is an unusual document and I can't imagine that anyone could accuse Mrs.Katarzyna Zimmerer, a writer, of something, but theoretically such a possibility exists. I'll tell you why, Mrs. Marshal. Because in this book there are talks with people who survived the Holocaust in Krakow, with people who survived their stay in the ghetto, with children of these people, with people who are outstanding for Polish culture, such as Nathan Gross and Miriam Akavia, and very often without any additional emotions in the statements there are accusations. I'm the gentleman here. In relation to our citizens. As we know from history, something like this happens in every country and everywhere, because war brings with it, unfortunately, situations like this, that are beginning to come into play... or that it triggers things that people have never dreamed of. Finally, I would like to say that if there is a good change according to you and if this good change involves, among other things, a good change. on the fact that very young people, from a generation younger than us, talk about most senators They're starting to rule and introduce laws, so I'd like them to keep a little bit of tact in relation to the circumstances. I remind you that I represented the Polish Parliament in Stockholm in March 2008 at the celebrations of the 40th anniversary of March 1968. Just now, when we are talking about this and when we are still thinking about this Polish disaster, suddenly there is a crisis in Polish-Israeli relations. I am no longer talking about the fact that we are proceeding on this law at the time when the anniversary celebrations of the liberation of the Auschwitz concentration camp are held. That's all I had to say. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Alexander Pociej is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Obremski about the article. 2a. Mr. Senator, there was a conversation about... I asked the minister the question: how would the court, if he had a case on the stand, determine that someone, the one who committed the crime, was a Ukrainian nationalist? Since I have not heard the answer to this question, I would like to ask the senator how, after this discussion, the senator will be able to explain what will be the subject matter of this law, which persons will be subject to this law for this reason. How will we determine if someone was a democrat and a bandit, or was he a nationalist and a bandit? That's the first question. And the other one... And maybe later, 'cause I'm already booked. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u215	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u216	The question is also for Senator Obremski. Mr. Senator, what's it like... On the basis of the law currently in force, i.e. Act on IPN, specifically Article. 1 of this law, there are proceedings, exactly 32 investigations, on the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and are published by the Institute of National Remembrance publications. Why the provisions of this law, specifically the article. 1, which we have before us in the comparative study, is to be modified, since they are to be modified with the article. 118 §1 of the Penal Code allows for what I have said, and even more, if only the IPN wanted it? What is the reason why the IPN Act is to be modified in this respect, since its current shape together with the article is to be modified. 118 §1 of the Penal Code allows you to investigate this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u218	It's also for Senator Obremski, but I have two questions. Since these matters, which are to be validated according to the amended rules, are most often occurring outside Poland, please tell us what will ensure that this law is enforced. That's the first question. The second question is: did the committee's meeting say how many cases related to the same offences to be subject to the new rules have been taken in previous years on the basis of the criminal code and the criminal code? And about why it's a slightly similar question, but wider than Senator Klich's question. Do we make a new regulation when the current laws allow us to prosecute these crimes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u220	I have the impression that some of these questions should be addressed to ministers, because in this way we will duplicate certain issues. Mr. Pociej has already left the committee when... [[Voice from the room: No. There it is.]] The committee... [[Oh, the committee, okay...]] Yeah, committee meeting... You then used the term "Ukrainian International," which is a criminal. It's the law that's talking about it too, I mean. Most likely this Ukrainian internationalist was simply a communist criminal. And that's subject to prosecution, too. [[That's why, Mr. Senator, I've now asked about a democrat.]] [[The point is the same.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] I'm happy with the ability to modify, but... I think the sense is similar, I mean. It's not exactly what you call it. I suppose most nationalists... From what I remember, the communist system also talked about democratic elections, so this self-definition doesn't necessarily mean what it is. But it's kind of a different thing. There was no question of the number of cases involved in the criminal code or the criminal code. There was also no discussion about what it was like, how Senator Klich noticed that the IPN investigation was going on. Indirectly related That's how I figured it out. With the need to extend procedural legitimacy. However, here's the IPN, if he gets... It's like strengthening the statutory IPN in chasing this kind of thing. That's how I feel about the situation that was before. But I would like to ask for a more detailed response from the ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u222	I have a question for Senator Obremski. You said in your report that the use of the wording of the Polish death camps has been increasing in recent years. You are reporting that 230 cases have been reported in recent years, and a representative of the previous government has recently reported that the previous government has intervened 913 times in such cases. So please tell me: on what basis do you claim that the use of the wording of the Polish death camps is increasing? 'Cause I don't see it from these numbers. And a similar question, also concerning this matter: wasn't the work of the commission accompanied by reflection that the amendment of this law is causing a dramatic increase in the use of this concept of Polish death camps? Because in the Internet media, as many as 5 million such phrases have been recorded in a few days. Has the work of the committee been accompanied by such reflection that you cause a wave of media information that these camps, however, had something to do with Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u223	Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u224	Thank you very much, Marshal. My question is addressed to Senator Obremski. We're dealing with this kind of weird situation. I understand that the initiators of this law probably wanted to give some effective tool to legally fight this lying, evil, nasty formulation of the Polish death camps, not in a geographical sense, but in the sense that the Poles organized it. I understand intent, and I commend intention. On the other hand, there is not once this wording in the bill, i.e. There is no law that this punishment will be for someone knowingly using such terms. On the part of the Law and Justice camp, specifically by Professor Zybertowicz, the president's advisor, there was such a quite sober reflection that, if this was the case with this wording, it would be worth to simply write it down straight, to say that that's what this is all about. And my question is, during the committee meeting, did anyone ever make such a request to write such a phrase? Has this been discussed? Or, for example, On the side of Law and Justice, did anybody have a discussion about this? Is this even the case and the discussion that such a provision should be made in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u225	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u226	I have a question for Senator Oremski about the article. 2a concerning Ukrainian nationalists. Why are these 1925-1950 dates, this time frame? What happened in 1925, what happened between 1925 and 1939, 1945 and 1950, 1939 and 1945? What is the reason for such a temporary cesarean? That's the first question. And the other. This law is based on international rules, the Charter of the International Military Court, the International Agreement on the prosecution and punishment of major war criminals, i.e. the situation of extermination, war crimes. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2a found the formula: activities in 1925 and 1950 involving the application by Ukrainian nationalists, members of Ukrainian formations of collaborating violence, terror or other forms of human rights violations against individuals and groups of the population? Here's a sign of equality. I understand that the murder of Minister Pieracki in 1932... in 1932, right? [[In 1934.]] No... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you a question, because it's already...]] It's sort of interpreted here... [[Time's up.]] ...as a war crime. Yes? Why are these 1925 and 1950s? Why is there a cesarean?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u227	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u228	Senator Snotlout. There were no graphs presented, there was a statement that this was an increasing phenomenon. These 913 cases, in my opinion, relate to a slightly different period, and this needs to be compared in the same units of time. Besides, it seems to me that it is also important to compare the importance of such expressions, i.e. where they are used, in which media, the extent to which they appear. And I take it that's a problem, because it's often not niche journals, it's high-volume newspapers, widely quoted in the world. With regard to the return of the Polish death camps, to which we are, of course, rebelling, which we consider to be an unacceptable return for us, there was no discussion about the fact that at the moment But I'm the one watching. In fact, there was a hashtag, Polish death camps, etc. Yes, we're dealing with this reflection and reaction. Mr. Senator Libicki, that's what I was talking about, I mean. I said that there is no record of the Polish death camps, because the elements defaming Poland, the Polish state, imputing certain untrue things to us, are wider. There was quoted the phrase "Polish SS" which I perceive as a phenomenon But something like this happens. Or gassing in Polish chambers. So the legislator was looking for such a legal formula, and so he put it, not just writing about this issue, which is the most common and is a certain emblem of the problem with which the Polish historical memory in the world has to face. I agree with Senator Borusewicz. In my opinion, we did not get an answer to the question of why 1925 and 1950 was adopted. It's an arbitrary segment, like a quarter of a century... [[I'm the Minister...]] [[But it's in the bill, it doesn't make sense.]] ...because, I would say, perhaps even Ukrainian organizations about such a very strong nationalistic color were later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u229	Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u230	I have a question for Senator Oremski. Mr. Senator... [[Excuse me, who? To the senator...]] Obremski. [[Obremski. Good.]] Mr. Senator, here, in the article. 55a, it is written: "Who gives the Nationals of Poland or the State of Poland responsibility or joint responsibility to the public and contrary to the facts... Contrary to the facts. Can the senator tell you who's setting these facts? I ask because we know well that in historical works the same event described e.g. by Ukrainian historians it is one fact, and described by Russian Oh, there's a very different fact. And today we have the best example for Donbas or Crimea. So, first of all, who's gonna judge this fact? And second of all... Because this is not only about co-ownership for Nazi crimes committed by the Third Reich, but also... Because it is: who publicly and contrary to facts assigns responsibility or joint responsibility to the Nationals of Poland and/or the State of Poland... and further for other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. And I would like to ask what the time frame is in this case, Senator. I've been trying to figure that out, and I don't know what the time frame is here. Are they based on any other provision, or are these time frames not defined and can be returned to actually every moment, even very far away?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u231	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Obremski didn't answer Senator Klich's question. And yet I asked a similar question at the committee meeting, just the question of whether, without this record, which concerns the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists, 32 investigations are possible, which are conducted in the IPN. I also asked where it came from. And we've learned that I'm surprised Senator Oremski doesn't remember. The amendment in this case was tabled by Kukiz15 and this is the amendment which contained these wordings. I wanted to remind you of that, and at the same time, referring to Senator Oremski's polemics with Senator Pociej... [[Senator, ask me a question.]] Yeah, that's the question. Answer me, Senator rapporteur. I'm addressing Senator Oremski. In addition to the Nazi crimes and communist crimes, the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists, i.e. the crimes of unnamed Germans, along with the crimes of unnamed Soviets, suddenly appeared crimes of the Ukrainian people. That's the question: where did it come from, why is it so? And why Even though even Mr. What did he say at the committee's meeting about the Bander crimes we use here the term "Ukrainian crimes," while in other cases we do not use such terms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u233	Okay, thank you very much. And Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u234	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Fedorovich, the rapporteur. Supporters of the new law claim that thanks to it Western authors will stop writing about Polish extermination camps. I'd be very interested, Mr. Senator, in your eyes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u235	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski, and then Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u236	Senator Pociej. It seems to me that if you read the whole of the Act, you can see that not in the amendments that were adopted last week in the Sejm, only in the Act on IPN is the time interval between the exact date in 1917 and probably 1 January 1999. So this is the first part of the answer. The second point is who's gonna make the facts. I don't have the same experience as your counsel, but I think that expert opinions are very often used in court. These are the opinions of accident experts, opinions on certain medical procedures. And very often we deal with various standards of proceedings recommended in the United States, in parts of Europe, in Poland, etc. The experts also refer to this, to their best knowledge. And as often as it is in science, it's not every time zero-one. Science is still trying to figure out a truth, but this truth, I'd say, is constantly moving, and we're looking for new opportunities. For this reason, it is an exemption for scientific research plus artistic activities there. So it seems to me that this investigation procedure to determine material truth is permanently imputed to the activity of the court. And as for the answer to Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, I think I need to complete what I said. The difference, as I understand it, is that the crimes committed by the UPA are being prosecuted, and here it is as if there is a matter of record about denying the existence of this type of crime. That's the difference... well, mathematically speaking, I'd say in the first derivative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u237	Thank you. Senator Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u238	Mr. Senator, I could try to answer this question as a man who has experienced a lot of such media facts in Poland and in the world, which have been caused by some reminder. If the law aims to ensure that the world never repeats words about Polish concentration camps and Polish death camps again, then theoretically this wording should never be shown again. But at the same time, as I said, defending our amendment regarding the fact that we are narrowing the bill to Polish camps... That's what I've been explaining about the amendment. And all of a sudden... And it seems to me that my younger political colleagues think that we here we are talking like in Wyspiański: a former Polish village quiet. And the world is already talking about it. We're probably going to have a question about the number of tweets in which we're accused of the evil intentions that we don't have in my mind. We're in a system, and I wish there weren't. During the committee meeting, we discussed this, but it is not appropriate to expose the President of the United States, even if he is an ex-President, to unpleasantness and in the Polish Parliament, especially in the plenary room, to talk about a certain gaff, even though it was a big event. Right? But if someone did something like this intentionally I don't think that's the purpose of the president of the United States a few years ago. Well, that's just the problem we've been talking about. Well, Minister What and the other ministers will answer that question in any case. I have to say, I've really been preparing for these amendments all night and all morning. I'm also basing my opinion on what I'm going to talk about here on the texts I've read. These are the wordings of legal authorities and I can quote them. In the case of this extended provision in the article. 55 there are very serious concerns, because the imputation of responsibility for these very wide-ranging crimes does not concern historical facts, but their evaluation. Well, you can't deny the facts, because the historical truth is one. There were Poles. I say it with pain. Who took part in such events. The fact is that there's an accomplice of moneymakers in Nazi crimes, etc. However, assigning the role played by individual individuals in their course is no longer a fact, but an assessment. And now note: if the law enters into force as adopted by the Sejm on Friday, such assessments may too often be the basis for imposing prison sentences. And that's what's happening right now in Israel and talking to our partners. On this basis, prison sentences can be imposed e.g. to survivors of the Holocaust, who accuse Polish moneymakers. And I'd like to warn you about that. This appeal to the Senate is very serious. If someone wanted to hear my voice, I would advise you to wait calmly with this bill and not pass it in a hurry. Some concern is that we do not want to give in to suggestions from a foreign country. Well, I'm not gonna name it because everyone knows what country it's about. It's politics, we can fix it later. This strategy in politics is possible, but if we try to do it in a while... We'll see, but a representative of the office of the President of the Republic said And it's written However, some changes should be made to this law. Well, only then will we face this problem and find out if we haven't made mistakes just because of what I was talking about. In such serious matters, haste cannot be decisive. Thank you. [[Thank you so much for your answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u239	Senator Bogdan Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u240	I have a second question for Senator Obremski, a question about the article. 55a paragraph. 1. I understand the first part of this provision: • Who publicly and in spite of facts assigns responsibility or co-liability to the Nationals of Poland or to the State of Poland for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich as defined in the article. 6 Charter of the International Military Court annexed to the International Agreement on the prosecution and punishment of major European Axis war criminals, signed in London... etc., etc. But I completely don't understand what the designer means in the second part of this sentence: or for other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. I do not fully understand this, and I fear the same as all other entries involving the word "other" in the laws that we accept, because in the concept of "other" you can fit any, any content. Each drafter and draftsman of the committee I'm sure you talked about it, because it's such a fundamental thing that you couldn't not talk about it. Does it mean other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u241	Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u242	I have a question for Senator Oremski, but I would like Senator Fedorowicz to respond to this problem that I will be asking. Mr. Senator, it is natural that if you introduce a new rule, you look for examples, it is determined where this provision has already been applied, in which countries, and how these other countries with similar matter have faced. We know that at least two countries, Turkey and Russia, have introduced such rules He punishes himself for historical revisionism in Russia or for insulting Turkishness. I would like to ask whether the committee has actually examined how the implementation of such laws has improved the image of Turkey in the world and Russia in the world and whether it has improved it. And did the committee analyze... Because Turkey withdrew from punishing such cases abroad during the 2 years of application of those rules which were to punish for insulting Turkishness. Did you analyze why Turkey did this? Because maybe we can make a mistake that's already been made in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u243	Good. Thank you. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the following question for Senator Obremski. We created the Polish National Foundation some time ago and gave it PLN 100 million to promote Polish image abroad. So far, all I've heard about is that this foundation did it, it's that it campaigned against independent courts in Poland. It seems that the situation with which we are currently facing this Polish-Israeli crisis is an opportunity to work for such an institution. The point is to introduce our rations to form a certain image. And my question is, was there any information during the committee's work that this foundation was doing something about it or that there were representatives of it somewhere? Whether it had anything to do with the subject we're talking about today or, as some media report, I don't know if that's real information. Did the representatives of this foundation stand for all this amendment? Was that even mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u245	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Oremski. And then Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u246	I have the impression that if there's a law, sometimes we're dealing with a situation where we're actually listing this, this, this, and this. And sometimes, considering that we are not able to predict everything, we introduce a clause that for the justice system means to extend, in the spirit of the law, to what we may lack in the writing of the bill. So there are two ways to write laws. Sometimes it's written down that it should be punished both, and sometimes we think that as if a certain attempt to handle it may or may not... Depending on how hard the record is formulated... [[Even the others...]] Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, no, this is the situation. No, there are a lot of rules in our legislation that include We are not able to predict everything, despite the wisdom of the Higher House. And please note that there is a record here against the facts. Contrary to the facts, it means inventing something that we think is a lie. This record, as I was saying, is a certain security, because someone can come up with completely absurdities, but which through the multiplier effect... It's theoretical. I'm just showing you a record. There was no deeper discussion about this. With regard to the request to analyse the image effects of this type of regulation, which exist in Israel and indeed in Turkey, I would say that it is very difficult for the committee to request such a profound analysis of something which is, however, largely elusive. We are certainly faced with a certain feeling that some element of the historical policy pursued by the State of Israel is an extremely effective policy that also affects the reception of this country outside. I would say that Turkey on the one hand is a law, but on the other hand there are very different and strange behaviours of the Turkish authorities, also outside the borders of Turkey itself, so this effect is difficult to determine. However, I would say that this Turkish law is a far-reaching law, i.e. there it is for criticism and the president, and the government, and the parliament, etc., so she is very, very much expanding... If I have Senator Libicki... There was no discussion about it, although I absolutely agree that it would be worth it to have the foundation show its operationality and effectiveness here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u247	Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u248	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I asked you a question. Indeed, during the committee meeting, I asked how this works in Turkey. It was my question that I was curious whether if there was a phrase in the public space regarding the Armenian pogrom in Turkey, it was a person, for example. from Poland could be accused and if so, in what mode - Or even trapped. Because there are parallels between the effectiveness of the law that this bill is going to It's true, isn't it? "Punishment for 3 years in prison for insulting Poland..." Minister Jak has not answered this question, but not because he didn't want to, but apparently it missed our meeting at the committee meeting, and I didn't press it later because there were other issues. I think this is about whether a Polish citizen who insults the Republic of Turkey... I don't know, it's a dictatorship, of course, so... Yeah, whatever, I don't want to insult you right now. Note: I'm not offended. Is this Polish citizen e.g. Is he going to be arrested? Just in case, I'd like to add that the President of Turkey remembers that there is a village of Adams. Now, here's the thing. [[Adampol.]] [[Adampol.]] Adampol. But, Mr. Senator, I haven't left since seven o'clock in the morning. And you're surprised? I can tell you what Marcus Antony said over Julius Caesar's grave... [[But we're not criticizing.]] [[There's no need for that, Senator.]] Thank you very much. But there's one more thing I have to add. Attention, senators, from my generation. Please... Yes, yes, my senator. I'm asking you to have a very serious reaction to what I'm about to say. Right now, the American Congress. We're not on an island. He urges President Duda not to sign this bill if the Senate passes it. Congress of the United States! [[Not Congress.]] Let's keep looking... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Not Congress, eight senators.]] [[Voice from the room: We got up from our knees...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] It is you, Professor, Mr. Marshal, who will improve my speech. I'm giving you what I heard. If only 8 senators, that's enough for now... [[But the laughing sounds... that was really out of place.]] But I'm afraid there'll be a lot more.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. Senator Comfort, you're welcome. [[Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. The question I was gonna ask is already over. Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Comfort resigned. Yes? [[The question I was gonna ask is already gone, so I'm not gonna say it again.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright. Has Mr. Libicki asked you a question yet? [[The voice from the room: He asked.]] Senator Wczyła has a question? [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Who? To me, Mr. Senator?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u250	Yes, to the very tired Senator George Fedorovich. [[No, let's not overreact.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but I have to ask you a question. [[Of course. I'm at work.]] And that will be the question I asked Senator Oremski. Senator Oremski answered me something different than the numbers, because Mr Oremski says... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Stas, a little quieter, 'cause I can't hear you. Don't be mad.]] Mr. Oremski said, "I want to get back to this case." That the number of terms, phrases of the type of Polish death camps is increasing. From the only data available to us, it is clear that during the times of the PRL-PSL government, I do not know exactly at what time That's what I'm talking about. [[I think it's PO-PSL, not PRL.]] PO-PSL... [[Voice from the room: PRL, PRL...]] I'm tired too. ... It was found to be 913, and the government of PSL noted such terms 230. [[Voice from the room: PSL?]] Isn't it legitimate to say that, contrary to what Senator Oremski said and what the committee was debating? The effectiveness of responding to the emergence of such statements is high and the number of these accusations is decreasing because it was Poles who built these death camps? [[That was the subject...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u251	I'm sorry, I haven't given you the floor yet. [[I'm so sorry.]] Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u252	I have a question for you, Senator Obremski. [[But ask that question.]] Good. This law will certainly give rise to some problems of interpretation, especially the part in which it is said that anyone who speaks publicly and contrary to facts about co-ownership for Nazi crimes will be punished. I wonder if it will be safe to talk about Silk, where this shared responsibility is shared in many statements, and some Poles deny responsibility. Doesn't a Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ryszard Czarnecki, speaking of moneymakers, indirectly address this subject and point to Poles who committed horrible acts during the occupation? I'm gonna serve here as one of the professors. I'm not gonna quote everything, because maybe I'd be courted to pass on something like this to you. In Warsaw alone, there were several hundred gangs of goldsmiths, including between 3 and 4 thousand people, who systematically tracked the Jews, sending them back to certain death. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] My question is: how can research be interpreted, the words of this professor or even mine now? [[You're protected by immunity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u253	Thank you very much. Do any of you have another question for the Senators of the rapporteurs? I don't see any calls. Now Senator Fedorovich, and then Senator Obremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, during the committee meeting there was a speech by Deputy Minister Jan Dziedziczak, who monitors these matters, because, I understand, his office is taking care of it. He gave specific figures concerning such terms offensive to Poland. As far as I can remember. I don't make a comparison here because I don't remember those numbers. It turns out that there are a lot of horrible words. But if the questions come to the ministers, I understand that Minister Dziedziczak will say so. In any case, it certainly did not decrease, if I recall correctly, Minister, this number has increased or is on a similar level. Well, in this case, the Minister will answer. I don't have any more...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u255	Mr. Oremski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u256	Again, about the quantity. If we're talking about 8 years and 900 cases and 2 years and 260 cases, that's pretty stable, that's how you look at it. One more comment to Senator Fedorovich. However, if we are talking about the joint Israeli-Polish committee, it must be said that some international groups are working quite slowly. It's not like we, as Senate, can't take a stand and not lean over this bill. Of course we can, but then according to the article. 121 of the Constitution is being passed by the version which was adopted in the Sejm. As far as Senator Augustine's question is concerned, I'm thinking the following. We have three levels of responsibility for the Holocaust. One level is structural, institutional responsibility: the German state, the Third Reich, the entire apparatus approved the extermination of Jews and created the whole industry, not only the industry of contempt towards Jews, because it was earlier, but the industry of extermination of the Jewish people, building concentration camps, death camps. And that's top-level responsibility. In my opinion, this bill states that who would say that the Polish state... And a little bit of this is in the formulation of the Polish people built Auschwitz, etc., etc., that is to say, the transfer of this responsibility to the institutions of the Polish state. Even the poor Polish state, something that should be our great glory, i.e. the Polish Underground State, was an organization which, under these terrible conditions, appointed Zegota and executed death sentences on cashmeres. And at this institutional level, we have to make sure they don't lie, because it's a matter of dignity and maybe even more important. I'm sure there's some truth to it. The second level is the level to say semi-structural. It's kind of like... What is the responsibility of modern France for the Vichy government and the help of police officers in loading Jews and moving them to Terezin or Auschwitz? What is the responsibility of the Danish Government if there were former Danish SS troops fighting, as I recall, even on the Eastern front? This is... And I take it that here we are already beginning to talk about certain organized groups in Poland that have disgraced themselves with something unworthy as structures. I'm sure historians would do that. I hope, however, that isolated, given the scale of the degeneration that always accompanies the war They would've found it. And the third level is an individual level, but I also understand it as a group level. And in my opinion, Silky's issue is a somewhat such an example of a grouply, disgraceful act involving, above all, the participation of Poles. Why am I talking about everything? However, this was done in a structure where institutional responsibility was on the side of the occupier. The Polish state was not strong enough, even in this underground, to stop this crime. Therefore, it seems to me that the wording of the crime in Silk... there is no danger here, which does not change the fact that of course there will be a bunch of people who will want to deny it somehow. And in my opinion, at some point, where things are in absolute contradiction with the truth, it should be... well, there's a possibility that someone's gonna go on trial. I do not see such danger that Poles are not a special nation. Although from our point of view, yes. And the Gaussian distribution of vileness and holiness, I have the impression, is the same as elsewhere. In terms of particular phenomena, of course, this Gauss curve is moved by the overlay of culture, the overlay of religion, but it is moved in different directions depending on different conditions, as if in response to individual... We are not a chosen nation. Therefore, there is no situation that Poles did not make any mistakes, did not do terrible, disgraceful things. Unfortunately, this has happened in our history. However, the arrangement of history caused that, unfortunately, we were more victims than we were on the other side. And because that was the story, we shouldn't force ourselves to pretend that we were an executioner in those cases where we weren't. And when the facts speak against the Poles, those who behave in a disgraceful way are the moneymakers. This, yes, should be stigmatized as part of a certain individual shame, but also shown as part of what we can be proud of: that under extreme danger the Polish Underground State issued death sentences on those who sentenced their fellow citizens of Jewish origin to certain death as a result of reports. That's all. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u257	You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u258	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Obremski. Because I'd like to know your position. And it's pretty important. The fact that Senator Fedorowicz called for us as senators to seriously consider this law before we make a decision. And my second question. Supporters of the new law claim that thanks to her I mean, I don't know what you're talking about. thanks, of course, to the Law without amendments Western authors will stop writing about Polish extermination camps. I would like to know your precise position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u259	Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u260	The second question is whether they'll stop... I don't know. Of course I don't know, because these kinds of laws have their future. I don't know, because you define a situation as if it were a little zero-one, i.e. You say they'll stop. I also do not know in the sense of what it means in the short term, and what it means in the long term. I have the impression that the last 30 years, despite what we thought, quite a lot of effort and some reflection also on Polish-Jewish issues and in literature, and in art, etc... Well, I get the feeling when I read the statements of some Kneset representatives that this meeting didn't happen, that this exchange of certain sensitivity is still far away. And now, the question is, in the long run, can this mean stopping certain processes that assign us the role of executioner rather than victim, which we do not want to agree to. Please note that as we speak of World War II... I often say that during the war 6 million Polish citizens were killed, including 3 million Polish citizens of Jewish origin. And we have two intel on that. The first is that it was actually halfway through, and that this is the equivalent of the victims of daily collapse of World Trade Center towers for 2 thousand days of World War II: one building with Poles, Polish citizens, and another with Polish citizens. So you could say this is 1:1. But there is also the second cruel truth: for Poles this meant that every tenth or every nine died during World War II, and for Jews this meant a totality of destruction, often the destruction of entire families. The situation of the extermination of entire Polish families was completely unique. I don't know, we'll see... Unfortunately, I would say that our last 30 years are not optimistic. We are looking for a solution to stop what we consider to be forgery in the public opinion or in mythology operating outside Poland, which poses a threat to us, because we are not only attributed bad things, but also that we do not want to admit to these bad things. Second thing: do I sign the appeal that senators should seriously consider? Well, Mr. Senator, in this particular case, I can't imagine one of the senators wondering seriously. [[Thank you so much for your answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u261	Are there any more questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? No one's checking in. The bill was introduced by the government and Members. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? On behalf of the Government, Mr Patrick Jak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u262	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll be open to your senators' questions. Maybe I will start by referring only to a few words that have occurred during the discussion that has been held so far in the High Senate. There was a phrase so that we wouldn't ruin what we'd been able to work out over the years. Therefore, we should ask ourselves what we have really worked out over the years and whether we are really happy about it. If we look at this from the perspective of the statistics that the Foreign Minister will show you in a moment, and he has a very precise record of every example. We will notice that the number of terms or synonyms of the concentration camps in Poland is increasing, from year to year. This indicator is so large that in many cases it is possible to talk about the entry of this term into a dictionary that is so common that even the former President of the United States used such a wording. After all, he used it not to offend Poland, but because it became so common. So did the head of the FBI, and he used the exact same wording. The wording expressed by such persons goes into the world and assigns us responsibility for actions which Poland did not commit, which the Polish people did not commit. The High Senate knows that very well. Therefore, in answer to the question, what we have been able to work out over the years, I must say that unfortunately I have the impression that little and Polish historical policy, which could be a kind of export product, an element of professionalization of the Polish state, does not exist. Therefore, the Polish government came to the conclusion that all this should be reprogrammed and rethought. Your Senate, this must be done because you have an image. This image is converted into pure financial resources. This is about the same as in the case of a Polish company that is seeking contracts abroad. She is able to carry out her activities effectively when her image is consistent and positive. Exactly the same image has the Polish state. If this image of the Polish state is regularly shuffled and attributed to us something as disgusting as joint responsibility whether the responsibility for the Holocaust, then, ladies and gentlemen, the High Senate, is also converted into money. Here, the best example is how professionally you are in Israel, which has been creating its historical policy for years and has built it very comprehensively by various institutions, associations, professional diplomatic policies. These associations are really strong. They are believed to be one of the strongest associations in the world. And they really win. They even win... Although the 2008 Framework Decision, which refers directly to this draft law, is a common law in the European Union, and is precisely about historical truth, which is important for the historical heritage of the whole of Europe, but above all for the State of Israel. Does it work? It's working. Of course, in this case the question arises whether the Polish state could not act equally professionally. Seems like it could. But, of course, it's a job calculated for years that one day needs to start. This job should spread into a lot of instruments, a lot of tools. These instruments should include diplomatic policy, helping our foundations and associations that already exist, and perhaps helping to set up new associations and foundations, professional marketing and PR activities, with appropriate substantive input, both in social media and traditional media. All of this should be complemented by a legal component that will give procedural legitimacy e.g. NGOs to act on behalf of the state, i.e. what we are creating right now, etc., etc. We are fully aware that what we are doing today is only a section of this professional historical policy which the Polish state should have. But we should start sometime, because if we don't... I'll tell you here, I'll tell the Senate what I told you earlier at the committee meeting. If we do not do so, and unfortunately the tendency is growing to use phrases such as the Polish concentration camps, then we can really wake up in the world in 20 years, where... wherever our grandchildren go, in any place in the world, there will be indications of them. Oh, they're the ones responsible for the Holocaust. And here's our responsibility. Our, politicians of all options 'Cause it's about not letting that happen. Therefore, if today there are accusations in relation to the government side: you have caused these Polish concentration camps to appear in public space... After all, High Senate, you know that this is not true, because before we have proposed any regulations, these wordings have rained many times, and it would still rain. Therefore, if questions arise today as to whether we are convinced that such wording will not fall after these provisions have been introduced... It's not like anyone responsible is gonna tell you they're not gonna rain. Our task is to do everything in our power to make such phrases less and less so as to convince our historical version. Because who, if not us, representatives of the Polish state, will take care of our historical story? If we don't do it ourselves, no one will do it for us, High Senate. And since our speeches can be observed, as well as those provided by foreign media, a few of these information and facts, which I am sure the senators know, must fall down in this House. Namely, since today we are attributed to co-operation or the Holocaust, we are talking about Polish death camps, I remind you: if we calculate the ratio of lost citizens to the whole nation, it would turn out that the Polish state lost the most citizens throughout the Second World War. This among Poles is the most Righteous among the Nations of the World, who risked their lives saving Jews during World War II. And precisely because Poles did this effectively on a relatively large scale, only in Poland occupied by Germany was the death penalty imposed for helping Jews. After all, the Polish Underground State was the only state that executed the death penalty for issuing Jews, the only such state, because it wanted to defend its citizens effectively. But that's not all. After all, it was nobody other than Poles who risked their lives that got into the concentration camp, then escaped from it to report on what was happening in the concentration camp. It was Jan Karski who drove around the world trying to interest representatives of other countries. The Poles said: listen, help us save the Jews. And no one wanted to believe. Who did this? That's what the Poles did. And today, in the light of these facts, when you try to say that we are responsible for the destruction of the Jews, that is just meanness. It's just meanness! That's why we have to take care of these things, because no one else will take care of it for us. Of course, there is another fact showing how bravely Polish people behaved during World War II. High Senate, Poland was the only occupied country in which no SS cell composed of Poles, i.e. There was no institutional cooperation from the Polish people with Hitler, and in other countries, such cooperation was in countries stronger than us. And you know that very well. That's why all these accusations are kind of mean. And that's why we have to do something about it, and we have to fight. We must fight through legislation, the High Senate, from such rules which have long been in operation in most of the European Union. Because the state... some senators seem to misrepresent Russia and Turkey, forgetting that the Auschwitz lie is part of the legal order of the European Union as a whole, is constructed in exactly the same way. So what? They can, and we can't? Here are the key questions we have to answer each other if we want to defend the good name of Poland. I'm open to your senators' questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u263	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klich came in first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u264	I would like to know from you, from the Minister what I did not learn from the Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please don't jamm Mr. Klich.]] [[Voices from the O.R. ……]] It is about words or other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes in Article. 55a... Could you unveil it for me, please? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could you unveil it for me, please? [[Voice from the room: Why don't you...]] It's the words in the article. 55a... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Excuse me? Can I help you, sir?]] I'd like to be on the axis... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: I can get out of here if you don't like it.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: What arrogance! What arrogance!]] But, Minister, I'm asking the question right now. [[The point is to move a little, because the senator is asking a question...]] I'm addressing the minister. [[You're standing back to the senator. Do you understand that?]] [[You're not in the Seym!]] [[You're not in the Seym!]] [[Voice from the hall: This is not the Sejm!]] [[Minister, I'll give you the floor, but...]] [[But he can't stand back to the marshal either. I think it's obvious.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking the question right now. [[Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please calm down. The situation is under control.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh! Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna ask you again. Since I have not received an answer from the rapporteur, I would like to ask what you as drafters mean by the wording contained in the article. 55a paragraph. 1, quote: or for other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. This is such a vague wording that it can be actually laid down in any text covering the period referred to in this law. I am very interested in this because I am afraid that the ambiguity of this provision, that the ambiguity of this provision is not only the reason for the crisis that we are dealing with at the moment in Polish-Israeli relations, but also the reason for the crisis that we will face in the future in Polish-American relations, and also the reason for the emergence of other consequences that we are not yet able to imagine. And secondly, I would also like to ask you what I asked the Senator rapporteur, but I did not get an answer either. Why is this inserted in Article? 1 words of Ukrainian nationalists and members of Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third German Reich at a time when, based on a record of other crimes that constitute a crime against peace and humanity or war crimes, and based on the Penal Code in IPN, 32 investigations are carried out on the crimes of flagships in Volhynia and East Małopolska, carried out after 1943? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u265	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u266	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! As regards the answer to the first question of the honourable senator concerning the second part of the criminal rule in the article. 55a, it has to be read together: Who publicly and contrary to facts assigns responsibility or co-ownership to the Nationals of Poland or to the State of Poland for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich... And this is where we move on to crimes that are not specified in the Charter of the International Military Court. Well, for example. There's no line... And then there's the war crimes listed. There aren't many war crimes involved, e.g. such as mass rape or mass theft of cultural goods. Therefore, if someone wanted to accuse the Polish people of such crimes... Well, that's why it's a distinction in this recipe. And of course there's more of them. If the senators want, a colleague, Minister Warchoł, who is a criminal, will give you a few more examples. As for the senator's second question, the question about Ukrainian crimes... [[Ukrainian nationalists.]] ...the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists, the question of why there is such a rule here... Well, these provisions are now formulated differently. Members who have introduced this term into this law Because this was not the case in the original submission of the Ministry of Justice, they claimed that they were aware of cases of refusal to investigate in cases of reduction of Ukrainian crimes, such as. Volynian crime. This was not only about UPA, but also about crimes related to the activities of these so-called ones. The flagship. This was the response of those who requested this provision. It wasn't the Ministry of Justice's idea. [[And the Ministry of Justice shares this view of the Members?]] Well, I have already answered at the committee's meeting that we were opposed to this provision and that, contrary to the views of the Ministry of Justice, Members have introduced this provision. [[Uh-huh.]] Nevertheless, I would like to stress that, of course, I am not against penalising flagship or condemning the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists. We just thought it should be done on another occasion and in another way. [[Sure. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u267	You're asking Senator Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u268	Thank you very much. I don't know which minister I'm going to turn to, but I think you gentlemen will decide which one of you will answer. My first question is this. We established the Polish National Foundation, which was supposed to take care of the image of Poland. I would like to ask whether, in this case, in the situation of this crisis, including the image crisis, this foundation was doing whatever it was doing, taking action, etc., etc., etc. And the second question is: does the Minister think that if we adopt this law in this form, these provisions will generally improve the image of Poland? And what does this image have to do with it? The Minister referred to economic activity, so I'll allow myself to do the same. If this image improves with regard to the provisions of this law, will the situation of Israeli and American investments also improve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u269	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u270	Thank you very much. Um, about the question about the foundation, I'm not responsible for this foundation. I only mentioned at the outset that if the Polish state And that's also part of the answer to the senator's second question. It wants to conduct a professional historical policy abroad, which can consequently translate into an improvement of investment conditions, the elements of this policy should be linked together, should be complementary to each other, i.e. both the activities of a foundation such as the national foundation and the laws that clearly show what the Polish state expects and does not want. And, High Senate, it is so that before we proposed these laws, citizens, individual citizens tried to sue, for example, German newspapers for using the wording of Polish death camps and the courts refused. The Polish courts refused to punish such wording, stated that such a citizen had no procedural legitimacy to conduct such proceedings on behalf of the State. With this bill we assign such legitimacy to someone who would like to pursue a civil suit, i.e., in this case, e.g. a non-governmental organisation which would be included in the statutes of this type of activity. It could also be the national foundation that the senator was kind to mention. And then the Polish court would have no reason to reject such a motion or such a claim for formal reasons. Why does this matter from an image point of view? Because when Polish citizens tried, by analogy, to assert their rights in determining the Polish death camps in Germany, the German courts said: right now, we even have your judgments, you in Poland are unable to settle them, we have your judgments which say that there is no procedural legitimacy, you have no case law, no doctrine on which you can rely. What do you want from us, from the German courts? And in that sense, we solve... the senator is right, of course. If this question was supposed to be half-retoric, then the senator is right, of course, that these rules do not deal with the entire historical policy, they are only part of it. We're doing what we're doing, i.e. It belongs to the Ministry of Justice, that is to say, we create these grounds, rules on which we can act. But, of course, to make it effective for it to translate into a good image of the state. And that's the answer to the senator's second question... This will not happen in two months, or even a year after these regulations have been adopted. These are years of work of the Polish state. I just want to stress once again that we just have to start at some point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u271	Marshal Borusewicz is asking a question. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u272	Minister, I want you to explain to me why in the article. 2a, concerning the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists, etc., temporary cesuria is the years 1925 and 1950. Please tell me why 1925, what happened in 1925, that this cesuria has been since 1925. And tell me what happened in 1950. Did the Ukrainians commit crimes, suppose, in 1949? For me, as a man who knows a little about the history of World War II, it's completely incomprehensible. That's why I'm asking the Minister to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u273	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u274	Thank you. Your Senate, Mr. Marshal, I have already mentioned this. I am not a specialist in Ukrainian affairs, that we were against this provision. Members have introduced this provision contrary to the government's position. And it's hard for me here to be responsible for the full intentions of the applicants at the Kukiz club15. But alone, trying to find some notes... This was probably about an organization called UWO, or the Ukrainian Military Organization, which was active, which could also carry out anti-Polish activities, but I am not convinced. You'd have to ask the marshal to ask the applicants. [[Minister, but you were also an applicant, this is a parliamentary-government project, so...]] And that's the part of the message. [[I understand, but did you propose... is the government's motion to remove it?]] The government's conclusion is that we certainly have a clear problem on our eastern side of trying to make heroes from people from Ukrainian organizations who committed genocide in Poles, and I have no doubt about it. This is a growing problem with which the Polish state should do something. We thought, generally agreeing with the intention that this should not be done on this occasion, not so, not so constructed recipe. But as I said, this law was introduced against the government's position, that's the other part of this bill. I agree with the intention, but I am not a specialist in Ukrainian affairs, so perhaps historians would have to be asked. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u275	Please... [[Therefore, I would like to ask the representatives of the IPN the same question.]] [[There's no...]] There are no representatives of the IPN... [[Are there representatives of the IPN?]] [[Permission...]] ...so we'll wait. If they do, Mr. Marshal will ask you a question. [[There's no I.P.N. reps?]] There are no representatives of the IPN at the moment. [[Although they were invited.]] Yes. Is the marshal continuing to ask if he's... [[Well, it's hard for me to continue the question in a situation...]] [[Voice from the hall: Well, how can he ask if there is no one?]] I see. [[...when the Minister, I understand, has no knowledge of this matter.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal has no questions. You're asking Senator Napieralski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u276	Thank you... [[How about a break?]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, before I ask a question, I would just like to clarify two things. Did I remember correctly because I didn't have time to write down... You said that the consistent image of Poland outside, also in historical politics, as you called it, can be compared with e.g. investing in a company or losing money. Yeah, I remember that right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] Okay. Thank you. And then you went a little further and you said that this coherent image of Poland, especially in the fight for the good name of Poland, is also a question of losing money for us, for our country. Yeah, did I get that right in your statement? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: Pretty much.]] Pretty much. That's a question for you. In such a delicate and very important matter, however, should we say that in connection with historical memory or even the mention of such tragic moments we should talk about money, that is not crossing a moral line that should not be exceeded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u277	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u278	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, No, because I'm not talking about Poles taking advantage of someone else's harm in their historical policies. I just mention that Poles could show how successful they were. And there was really a lot of success during World War II. It would be enough to quote the story of the captain of Pilecki himself to make not even one Hollywood film, but the whole series, for example. On Netflix, and I think it would be a really fantastic show. I am no longer talking about the issue of Enigma or helping with the matter of Wunderwaffe or the said assistance to the Jews, the issue of showing the Righteous Among the Nations, the Irena Sendler, etc., etc. I believe that the Polish state really has reasons to be proud of the attitude of its own people, for example because we were a nation which, from the first to the last day, opposed Hitler first and then the Communists, opposed very bravely. I believe that the Warsaw Uprising itself should also be better promoted, because, High Senate, you know that the Ghetto Uprising is more famous in the world than the Warsaw Uprising, and one of the senators has already spoken about numbers, I think Senator Oremski. And I believe that this is neglect of the Polish state. I believe that the Polish state should take care of this, because if the Polish state does not care about it, to show these successes and how brave and courageous the groups of Poles were, no one will do it for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u279	Question is, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u280	Dear Minister, I would like to ask what I already asked at the committee meeting and ask for information on the effectiveness of these rules and how they will work. When e.g. A reporter in a large American newspaper will use a fabrication that we will find subject to these rules, how you will enforce by law. Please tell us about all this way in such a situation, punishing him with a fine or imprisonment until 3 years? And second question. You said it was the Members who made some... that you weren't responsible for it. Well, then tell me. This is a question for you, but also for the foreign deputy minister present here, or the Polish government is still responsible for foreign policy, or are now some Members' contributions, such as Kukiz15, justify that such ill-written laws are being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u281	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u282	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mrs. Senator, I believe the intention of the Kukiz Club is right. The question about historical details about a particular year is a question more about historians. I'm just being honest with you. But the intention of penalizing this and extending the penalization also to issues related to genocide carried out on Poles by Ukrainian nationalists... I believe that this absolutely should be reflected in Polish material criminal law. And in that sense, I think it's an unanswered charge. As regards the practical issue of the possible prosecution of convicted persons for the offences mentioned in the submission, the High Senate, of course, within the European Union, will be easier to prosecute such offences than outside its borders, of which there is no doubt. There are many possibilities related to the enforcement of possible penalties that would be imposed by Polish courts. If it were for example. a fine, that can be applied here by the Framework Decision on the application of the principles of mutual recognition of fines of a monetary nature, and it follows from practice that this is relatively easy. If a prison sentence is imposed in the European Union, the principle of double criminality is usually applied, but here we have an exemption from the article. 55b, therefore, it would be possible to use either the European Arrest Warrant or the Framework Decision on the transfer of convicted persons. It's within the European Union. As far as issues relating to countries outside the European Union are concerned, this will be more difficult, not impossible, but more difficult. Of course, it will be possible to use the so-called law. legal assistance, in difficult situations even from extradition institutions. But the most effective for crimes outside the European Union, and no one has any doubts about that, will be the civil laws that are enshrined in this law. And actually suing for the formulation of the Polish death camps or the analogy with these laws, i.e. procedural legitimacy, e.g. by NGOs, including outside the European Union, has every chance to make it effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u283	You're asking Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Probably the question I want to ask you, many Poles with a similar family history as mine would like to address you as well. I don't know if you're gonna answer that question, or if you're gonna answer Minister Dziedziczak... Do you not think that after these records on the Ukrainian crimes have been introduced in the law, the matter of reopening the exhumation in Volhynia will be much more difficult? Is there any diplomatic activity going on, or is there a conversation... Because in my life, I'd like to find half the graves of my family that were murdered and that they were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u285	Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u286	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Madam Senator, let's say we're in the same family situation. I'd like the same... My family also came from the East, also murdered by UPA. And so we found ourselves in Opole, like most of the inhabitants of Opole. As for the exhumations in Volyn... I think it would probably be more accurate to answer this question by a representative of the Institute of National Remembrance if it appeared, but it seems to me that there were serious problems before the introduction of this provision. At least the press kept it up. Therefore, we, as a Polish country, are simply obliged to do what is within the scope and within the limits of our capabilities. There's a lot of press coverage, that's what the members of the committee said about it... I recall such statements, for example. Polish tour went to Ukrainian school and there were pictures with Bandera everywhere. Well, in the context of e.g. Senator's history... I think the senator understands that in this situation the Polish side feels at least uncomfortable, speaking diplomatic language. Especially since the Ukrainian Parliament, 3 years ago, if memory serves me, accepted punishment, and probably up to 5 years in prison, if I remember correctly, for questioning the size of Bandera and its troops. That's why we're here in this situation. I'm going to emphasise once again that I understand the intentions of the Kukiz Club15, although I probably would have put it differently if it were up to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u287	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u288	Mr. Minister, art. 55a, the main article on which this whole amendment is based, is: "Who publicly and contrary to the facts assigns the Nationals of Poland or the State of Poland responsibility or co-ownership for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third Reich of Germany... I would stress: contrary to the facts. Who will determine that the information in question is contrary to the facts? Well, let's assume Silky's case. The Minister of Education says he doesn't know who murdered the Jews in Jedwabne. President Szarek said here that Germany. Senator Żaryn, who was an employee of the IPN and seems to be on leave, says similarly that Germany or... Well, who's gonna say something's against the facts? And there are scientists, including the IPN... After all, there was a prosecutor's investigation in IPN, which is attributed to local Poles. In such a situation, it seemed quite clear that these differences in interpretation of the facts are significant. So who's gonna determine if there's something against the facts, or if there's something that's consistent with the facts? That's the first question. The second relates to the same article, only paragraph 3: does not commit the offence of the criminal offence referred to in paragraph. 1 and 2 if he has committed such an act in the context of artistic or scientific activities. Who will determine whether it was an artistic or scientific activity? Is the Minister of Culture going to say that? Who's gonna say that? It's a bill, where that kind of... [[Mr. Marshal, the question lasts a minute.]] Good. That has to be a clear indication. It can't just hang in the air.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u289	Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[I'll still have questions.]] Then ask the third question. [[I have a few more questions, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, but now it's one, three, because the Minister will answer three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u290	The solution which Penallizes the so-called Auschwitz lie is introduced into the legislation of many other countries, including Poland, and can therefore also be pursued outside the State of Israel. What countries do you think the Minister is going to put in place these solutions that you have proposed at the moment? The point is that this penitentiary is also effective outside Poland. Because if you say that there will be an automatic European arrest warrant in the European Union... well, you might be surprised. After this law, which is done so, this European order may cease to work at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u291	Mr. Marshal, that's not a question anymore, it's a suggestion. [[Yeah, I know.]] You asked three questions. I'll let you answer... [[Yes, three questions and a supplement to indicate some danger that is.]] Minister, please answer the three questions of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u292	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr Marshal, as regards the first question, concerning the determination of who publicly and contrary to the facts and who is to determine these facts, the experienced lawyers have first of all drawn my attention to one thing. If we're talking about facts... The fact, especially in the criminal trial, is a fact that has been established undeniably and beyond any doubt. And so will the court. How will this be determined? Well, it will be determined, of course, in a traditional procedure, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is first the prosecutor, then the court trial, the instant, then possibly the expert, who would be able to determine these... to say if something is a undeniable fact, except for any doubt. And only then is that a fact. So this can't be about a situation where someone... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many conversations that bother you.]] So this can't be about a situation where someone, for example. Once again, he found the remains of some crimes and he's trying to figure out what the circumstances were and who's responsible. This is not a fact from a legal point of view, this is just an element that is being examined. Facts are those issues that are undeniable, such as: That the Germans created death camps. So much for the facts. As regards the second question of the honourable marshal, which relates to the provision of the article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, according to which he does not commit a criminal offence, if he has committed such an act in the framework of artistic and scientific activities, first of all I will remind you: and who would determine whether any work is scientific? There's exactly the same procedure here. In addition, scientific work involves certain requirements, it must have scientific reviews, it must often have e.g. case study... [[What do you mean? The review is after the fact...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators! We ask questions one at a time. Minister, continue.]] In a word, it can't be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, depending on the area... Well, it must be, beyond any doubt, high quality material, which can also be verified in court proceedings and possibly expert assessment. Scientific work isn't all anyone's gonna write. In addition, I would like to point out that a similar countertype has long existed in criminal and material regulations. It's probably an art. 256 criminal code It is based on broad doctrine and case law. And there are also exemptions for e.g. educational work. Mr. Marshal's third question was where similar rules work. Well, I already mentioned that. Namely, similar rules operate in most countries of the European Union and are exactly the same. If we look at the rules, the design of the regulations concerning the Auschwitz lie, and we read them. Article 2 The 55th I.P.N. Act, and these are criminal regulations... Our recipe is: who publicly and contrary to facts assigns to the Polish nation or the Polish state, etc. A provision that has been in force in Poland since 1998 concerning, among others, Oświęcim's lies are: who publicly and contrary to the facts denies the crimes in question And here's the reference, and it's punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. [[What crimes?]] Crimes referred to in Article. Point 1 (1). That's where it's said, among other things. about Nazi crimes, communist crimes, etc. This is, in turn, a reference to the European Union Framework Decision of 2008, which is a universal law. Therefore, there is no doubt that these rules are in place. Oh, Mr. Marshal asked about their effectiveness. Well, they're effective, so-called rules. The Holocaust denial is effective. If you put it in Google, you'll see that it works in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u293	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u294	Minister, that's not what I asked. I wasn't asking where the same rules were still in place, I was just paying attention... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: Almost everywhere.]] ...that the lie of Oświęcim was incorporated into the law of many countries, other than Israel, also in Poland. I asked you where, in which countries is the law that we are adopting right now, in your opinion will be incorporated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u295	Do you have any more questions for the marshal? [[That's all for now.]] Thank you. Who else has questions? After 3 questions we will group together. Mr. Senator Bonkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u296	Minister, I am, of course, in favour of this bill, but I have doubts, because to me this law does not bring anything, and it gives the right to these criminals, these liars from this so-called. Oświęcim lies. In the first words of the article. 55a who is public... What does it mean to be publicly and contrary to the facts attributed to the nation? And whispered propaganda, which is common on the Internet, all over Poland? We have examples of this. The simplest examples: stories about the Maybachs, some luxury cars that some homeless guy gave. Why is it only public, not whispered propaganda? That's one thing. Second thing. In the following part we read or in other ways grossly reduces. What does that mean? Can you minimize it gently? To me, it's, well, a pathetic line, to put it mildly. The following case, paragraph 2: if the perpetrator of the act referred to in paragraph 2 is involved. 1 acts unintentionally, is punishable by a fine or a penalty of limitations of liberty, i.e. acts unintentionally and is punishable. I think it is right, because 73 years have passed since the war, and everyone knows perfectly well who created concentration camps in Poland. And if someone doesn't know, then they must be some complete... I don't want to use the word... It's in this situation that he should go to jail anyway, because if he's in jail for three years, he'll have the opportunity to learn history. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] But if he learns his story well, maybe he'll be relieved of his punishment and he'll come out. One more thing... [[Excuse me, you've already asked two questions and Mr. Senator...]] One more, third question. [[That's the last one, right?]] Mr. Marshal, third question. [[There you go.]] It refers to a point 3: He does not commit a criminal offence to a criminal offence if he has committed such an act in the course of artistic or scientific activity. I said, what is it? So, Mr. Gross, Mrs. Tokarczuk will be publishing, as they have been doing for years, in some scientific journals, and they won't be punished, right? Because it's scientific. This point should not be included in this law at all. The same applies to such activities within the framework of artistic activities. What a right in the artistic activity... Poles, Christians, Mrs.Nieznalska hanged her genitals on the cross as part of the artistic activity... Or so-called. Art at the Universal Theatre... It was also in the field of artistic activity. Then, as part of the artistic activity, ZDF will do a program about Oświęcim that Poles did, and it will be... And just excluding these 2 items, Minister, we're opening up a field for legal matters, endless... [[Mr. Senator, this is a discussion, not a question.]] And the courts in Poland are inefficient. We're practically not gonna change anything with this bill. Minister, these two points should be removed, the one about artistic activity... Well, there's still time to discuss science, if... [[Minister...]] ...it's actually going to be scientists, not scientists like this gentleman... or your writer Tokarczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u297	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Minister, the question of Marshal Borusewicz and the three questions of the senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u298	Good. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal asked again about the Auschwitz lie. The construction of the Auschwitz lie is similar to the one we introduce, and since it applies everywhere, the question is whether there is a law in other countries similar to the one we introduce... Well, yes, that Holocaust denial is in effect. It's just valid and effective. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please...]] And there's a connection here, too. It's about the Holocaust denial for the senator's question. Namely, in the case of Oświęcim lies there is no exclusion of artistic and scientific activities. And in that sense, of course, the senator may be right that it may not be fair. But imagine what would have happened if it hadn't happened. Because in the original bill that presented the Ministry of Justice, it was not, i.e. there was no exclusion of research and artistic works, but this was the case, among others. Israel's side. Well, according to good contacts, Because no one wanted the diplomatic crisis, we recognised some rations, among others. Israel's side in this area, because we wanted to move forward in defending Poland's good name. And, God forbid, no one wanted to cause any diplomatic conflict. Well, the senator's question... Oh, and, of course, after the introduction of this provision. I said it, but I'll say it again. And after further translations from the Israeli side, which was still interested in these researches, that this provision is already in comparison with the first presented... The Israeli side ceased to be interested in this project in any way for a year. There was no interest. That's à by the way. diplomatic conflict. The Polish side could not know that something was wrong, since the Israeli side did not signal it at all. The senator's question was why we put the term "publicly," not for example. Whispered propaganda. Well, if I put in the bill that whispered propaganda would also be punished... [[He's thinking!]] ...well, you know, compared to the scale of what's going on today, we could multiply it, in my opinion, several times... But of course that's not the point. The most important thing in all of this is that in public terms it has an image dimension from the state's point of view. If the term "Polish death camps" appears in a prominent newspaper abroad, then of course the damage is much greater than if someone had just whispered about it. I'm saying it in a nutshell. However, I recognize what you said to the senator that such cases could also happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u299	Does Senator Bonkowski have any further questions? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u300	Yes, I have a question, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, please silence the conversation. Conversations could be in the cockroaches. There you go...]] I'm even amazed. Well, Poland is a sovereign country. Under what law do we have a duty to care for Israel's feelings? And why do we ask, as Poland, as a sovereign country, and agree our law with the State of Israel? Are we the Israeli colony? To me, it's an unthinkable thing. Did we consult the so-called. Act 447 with the U.S. Senate? Did we consult with the Ukrainians who brought in three years ago the fact that whoever accuses the banners, or their heroes, would be prosecuted? No one from Poland intervened in these matters. So I'm amazed...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u301	You're asking Senator Klich a question. There you go. [[Thank you very much. I'm quitting.]] You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u302	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you compared the image of our country to the image of a good company abroad. I've been running this company abroad for many years, and I feel this comparison, this image... Nevertheless, did the legislator, and especially did you realise what was happening in the world today? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet because we can't hear the senator. Gentlemen of the Senators!]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, please.]] Did you predict that there would be such a huge MRI of this bill all over the world? That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, if you look at the Internet and see what's going on... I don't know if we woke up some demon. From morning to night, especially in public media, it is presented by so-called. calling and expressing their opinions. I think we're gonna lose a lot of image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u303	There are no more questions. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u304	Dear Marshal, High Senate! As regards the allegation to the government that she consulted Israel on this project and that it is not worthy of the Polish state, I would like to say that I have a different opinion. If the Israeli party or any other party applies to the Ministry of Justice for a meeting because it wishes to present its comments on the bill, then I am obliged to accept it. I am obliged to accept such representatives in the name of good relations with each country. It is our duty to take care of these relationships that is the responsibility of the Polish state. And so it happened in the case of the Israeli side. The Israeli side has been accepted several times at the Ministry of Justice. As I mentioned, for a year she has not made any comments on the law that we are currently proceeding, although since the first reading, which was 1.5 years ago, until it was adopted, nothing in this law has changed. It's not like Israel is ordering us to accept any amendments. No, we simply accepted the comments, we considered these concerns right, and in the name of good relations with our partner, with the Israeli side, we introduced such a provision. After all, none of us wanted to bring about this crisis, which I would like to emphasise once again, and nobody wants it to continue. As for Act 447 in the American Senate... The matter of restitution of Polish property, that is, restitution of property in general... [[It's free property.]] Well, if it's free, it's controversial. This is a case that has been under investigation in the Senate in various forms for more than 15 years. This Act 447 is a law that was established long before we presented our proposal for a large reprivatization bill, therefore there is no connection between the presentation of this bill and the process of that project. [[But a month ago...]] 447... did I say that right? Yes, 447. [[A month ago it was.]] No. Mr. Senator, a month ago, it was loud about it, but when you check when that bill was made, This can be checked on the Senate pages You will notice that it was created earlier than our project was presented. Well, some people have such a theory that it has accelerated because if Poland adopts a large reprivatization bill, there will be nothing to go back to from an international point of view. [[I didn't see any protests.]] I think the senator was asking... I'm sorry, I'm just a little tired. If you'd be kind to remind me... [[Voice from the room: He forgot...]] Image issues, yes, related... I compared you to a foreign entity for which the image is important, because I am convinced that this is indeed the case. The Polish State, the Treasury should have instruments to protect its good name or to protect personal goods. That's what she pointed out, High Senate, e.g. Before adopting this draft law, the Public Prosecutor General wrote: the absence of explicit statements, case law, in the protection of personal property of the Treasury as such... that the question of the existence of personal property of the State Treasury in the Polish legal order should be regarded as unexplained and thus risky in possible legal proceedings. And that was often the case, that is, we did not have good laws to protect the personal property of the State Treasury. In a word, in the Polish legal order is full of laws that allow to claim protection of personal property of every individual person, every private entity, every company of commercial law, and do not allow to claim protection of personal property of the State Treasury, something that is for us would seem to be the most important. Right? That is why these rules are so necessary and I have therefore stressed the case law which points to the lack of procedural legitimacy to protect the personal property of the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u305	The question is, Marshal Borusewicz... [[Sorry, there was one more...]] Do you want to ask, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u306	No. I didn't get the full answer. Minister, you have yet to answer the question of whether you have been preparing this bill, because anyone who is preparing something, the president of the company, the Prime Minister, the Minister, must anticipate the effects of this legislation, which you have anticipated today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u307	I'd like you to brief me on that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u308	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, no one could predict such effects for the reasons that I have already informed you about. Namely, no one before the adoption of this law on IPN was aware that Israel could protest at all, and that it would protest in such a way, no one could assume. Your Senate, there is no document, for example half a note, a position, anything, from the last year, that would enter the Sejm, the Senate, the media, government politicians, opposition, protesting this bill. Then how were we supposed to know? It's not like we can let this happen. [[Sure.]] ...that the Polish government will call the embassy and ask if we can accept such a bill. It is the task of the ambassador of a given country to signal if he has any comments that such a bill can be adopted e.g. Like this. But nobody said it, they didn't tell us, they didn't tell us the opposition either. Because if he said that to the opposition, they would certainly be addressing this issue during the work in the Sejm. Therefore, let us assume that sometimes, as there is a dispute and there are 2 parties to the dispute, it is not always Poland that is guilty that Israel is an offensive party in this matter. Because see how Israeli politicians behave today, and how Polish politicians behave today. You could say I'm not a professional diplomat. And look at how Israeli diplomats behave, what words professional diplomats use towards Poland. Well, in my opinion, it's the best testimony to who has what intentions. We want a good relationship, we really want a good relationship. And look at the words that Israeli politicians use. One Israeli politician said that Hitler chose Poland for a reason, because he knew that it would be best to kill Jews here, because Poles would cooperate best. In a nutshell, that's what I'm talking about. Right? [[Because he knows we can do anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u309	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz volunteered. And then Senator Anders.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u310	Yeah, I volunteered. Minister, I'd like to specify. I asked who would define, judge, what is contrary to facts or what is artistic or scientific activity. I understand it's supposed to be a court, that every time the court determines it. But I'm gonna go back to the Silk issue for a second. The fact is, the Jews were murdered in Jedwabne. [[In Oświęcim, too.]] Now the question is: by whom? Yes? And that's supposed to be a court, not a specialist, not an IPN? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm done, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u311	Yeah, can I answer that? Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Mr. Marshal, regarding Silke, this provision seems to be precisely designed: "who publicly and contrary to the facts assigns it to the Polish people... That's why if you were a marshal, for example. He said that the Polish people were responsible for Silk, that they would be subject to this provision. But if you said Poles, not anymore. [[Voice from the hall: Those.]] Not then. That's the difference. And it doesn't seem like the whole nation can be attributed a crime in Silk, does it? They were just criminals, yes, Poles, but criminals. Yes? That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u312	Senator Anders is asking you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u313	Just a quick question. I am surprised that no one somehow understood that the introduction of this law to the Sejm the day before the Holocaust anniversary would cause the storm that it caused. Because it's normal. If there was no such law then, if she had not passed the Seym, the ambassador of Israel would not have had her speech in Auschwitz and all this would not have been as public as it was. Because if it were somewhere quietly done and we could have voted it out 2, 3 weeks later... And now this is a tragic, absolutely tragic international situation. She's not only in Poland, she's not only in Israel, she's in the American Congress, and yesterday or the day before yesterday we begged that it wouldn't cross over to the Senate at all. So I just don't think it was necessary. This has nothing to do with our bill... [[Senator, ask me a question.]] ...corrections, etc. [[Applause]] [[Will there be a specific question?]] The question is, why? I'm asking why no one predicted that there would be such a reaction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u314	There's a question. Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Marshal Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u315	Minister, these, it seems, 213 cases of such difamational talk in the world, what were these cases? Can you tell me what this was about, what the wording was? Of course, Polish death camps, Polish extermination camps... But was there any other wording? And where were they?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u316	Sure question. Is there another question for the Minister? No questions. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u317	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Senator, no one could have predicted this, i.e. This could not be predicted by the Polish side, for a simple reason: the Israeli side did not say that it had any problem with this law. I told you, there's no proof of that. Because if there were to be such a problem, then they would have reached you, government Members, the opposition, the newspapers, wherever, there would have been half a position, notes. There was no doubt about it. And please accept that sometimes in foreign policy it is so that when there is a dispute between two parties, Poland and another country, it happens that Poland is guilty, but it happens that something happens without the fault of Poland. If you read today, High Senate, an interview with the Israeli ambassador to the Republican Republic, you will see what the ambassador is saying? That one of the most important reasons for this diplomatic crisis was the internal situation in Israel, that the opposition politician suddenly attacked the government and the government had to address it. That's what the ambassador says. So what does the ambassador say? The ambassador admits that the Israeli side is responsible for this conflict and that these factors are completely independent of the Polish government. Because how was someone supposed to predict, creating this bill a year and a half ago, that a year and a half later opposition policy would attack the government in Israel on Twitter and everything would be under internal policy in Israel? There are situations we can't just predict. And on the fact that we had good will, the best proof is that the Polish side... In the Ministry of Justice, we have met several times in the last year with representatives of the Israeli embassy, but always on a different matter. Other laws were of interest to the Israeli ambassadors, not to this bill. Then you have to ask yourself, if I'm sitting across the street from the ambassador or deputy ambassador, I'm talking an hour about a bill, then why, if this project is such a problem, they won't mention it? Well, because there was no problem with him. He appeared suddenly in Israel's internal politics and is probably also connected with a difficult, tense political situation in Israel, which the Polish party is not guilty of either. [[Marshal Borowski's question.]] Aha, as regards the question of Marshal Borowski about the offensive wordings that fell towards Poland, it was the wording of the Polish concentration camps, the Polish death camps, the Polish gas chambers, Poland responsible for the Holocaust. It is written very precisely by Minister Dziedziczak, I think exactly as to the date and the name of the press release, and I think he will respond even more precisely to the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u318	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Bonkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u319	Minister, you said you spoke to Minister Anna Azari, if I speak correctly. Didn't she mention if you knew... Because she still said about the reprivatization bill. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] That's the question: have you heard of it? Because she also regretted this reprivatization law in Poland. That's what I'm talking about, and I think you know... Do you know that? Because you left it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u320	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. That was the last question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u321	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! Well, it's not... The ambassador herself said so. Indeed, during the last year, our meetings were intense and concerned one issue: reprivatisation. Therefore, I am surprised that during all these meetings there was never any remark about the fact that something is not right with the IPN Act, because if such a remark were given, it would certainly not have happened. But once again I stress: it is not the fault of the Polish side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u322	Thank you, Minister. Would Minister Jan Dziedziczak like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, the most important part of the bill was presented by Minister Jak, so I will no longer repeat these questions here and try to shorten my speech. We've already talked about the purpose of the bill. This is a very important act, because it gives our country tools, tools to fight for the good name of Poland, and introduces legal tools. It introduces legal tools, which are in many other legal orders, including in Israel, for penalization for similar behaviours and actions, for assigning to the Polish nation or the Polish state responsibility or co-ownership for Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich. It is, of course, about eliminating statements made publicly and against facts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that the provisions of the amendment state This is very clear in Article. 55a paragraph. 3) that freedom of research, freedom of historical discussion and artistic activity are not restricted and will not be subject to the proposed rules. We explain this situation to the partners of Israel and hope that, after it has been clarified, the Polish-Israeli committee will be able to settle this dispute. But we have to accept this bill. We must accept it because Poland needs effective tools very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remind you that Poland and Israel have issued... The bill was known to the Israeli side and has been publicly available for a year and a half. The project was submitted to the Government Legislative Centre in 2016. Here I would like to point out that Poland and Israel issued 22 November 2016. So more than six months later, more than six months after the project had already been notified A joint statement condemning the use of phrases that may suggest Poland's participation in the German Nazi death industry, such as the Polish death camps. This means that a statement condemning the wording of the Polish death camps was issued more than six months after the bill on IPN was presented. So Israel signed a statement with knowledge of the proposed IPN regulations. The provisions of the IPN Act are based on the guidelines of the Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union 2008/913. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to shorten my speech, let me say a few sentences about numbers. Poland is constantly being attacked by hurtful wordings, statements, which cause more and more quotes striking in the good name of Poland. Last year, in 2017, we had 258 such quotes. And interventions of Polish institutions... Polish institutions are absolutely intervening, absolutely reacting to this kind of formulation. These are demands of correction, these are demands to explain the truth, to present the truth. In 2017 we had 258 such phrases, and that means In view of the fact that the year is 365 days old, and taking the weekends away That almost every day somewhere in the world such a slanderous Polish formulation appeared. What are the most common countries? Most often in the United States, in 2017 we had 46 such phrases, almost one per week, and in the UK Also 46. This means that in the most influential English language, the language that affects the whole world public opinion, every week somewhere in the United States, such phrases appeared, somewhere in the United Kingdom every week. But third place, and this should give the senators a lot to think about, have taken on the list of these disgraceful publications by Germany. In 2017, 32 times, i.e. every week and a half, appeared somewhere in Germany. a statement about Polish concentration camps, but not only that, I will talk about it right away. How is it possible that among the nation of perpetrators, someone doesn't know who was responsible for the Holocaust? Someone may be confused, someone may not know it, but how is it possible that such expressions appeared e.g. On German public television? On German public television! We all know that the path to German public television is long, there are no random people there, there are people who need to know something. And these people do not know who was responsible for the Holocaust, who created the concentration camp, who was responsible for Auschwitz? I think that should get us all thinking. Minister Jak already spoke about this very precisely, I will only stress this: this is the fight for Poland's position on the international stage, that is the fight for Poland's position, for association with Poland, whether they will be positive or negative. This translates into an international position, and anyone who has been involved in foreign policy knows that. If we were a country that would associate others with the fact that he was always on the side of the weaker, always on the side of peace, never collaborating with the Nazi regime or others, he was the country that first told Hitler... Unlike the others who tried to get along with him, we said absolutely no, for which we paid for the outbreak of war, the attack on our country. Nevertheless, we have never created a collaborating government, and the legal Polish government, the London Government and the Polish Underground State have clearly decided to save Jews, to protect Jews, even though the price for this was highest for Poles compared to what was in other European countries. We know that, but there's a completely different picture in the world. What painting? This is the selected quotes... Because these are not just concentration camps in Poland, we had much more in the past year. A few examples, quotes: Polish concentration camp, Polish death camp, Polish extermination camp, Polish gas chambers, Polish death factory, Polish Holocaust, Polish ghettos, Polish Nazis, Polish genocide, Polish mass murders, Polish war crimes, Polish crimes against humanity, Polish war criminals, Polish participation in the Holocaust, Polish SS, Polish Auschwitz, Polish Auschwitz Poland, Polish extermination of Jews, Polish extermination of Jews. That's what I'm saying. They appear almost every day in the world. On the basis of this kind of wording, others make an opinion about Poland. And that's why we have to intervene. We have to intervene and that is what the Polish government is doing. We get tools, more tools... Of course, Polish institutions intervene, in many cases it succeeds, Dear Lord, because editors publish corrections, in many titles, even the most serious ones in the world, they have been able to introduce permanently such rules against defective memory codes. This means that if there is a person in the editorial office who writes about the history of World War II, it simply gets this type of code list and uses it. And indeed, after years of this type of mistake, we managed to eliminate it permanently. But there are also editors who publish these wordings despite our systematic corrections and interventions. I will remind you of this loud issue, when German public television used the wording of the Polish death camps, and raised this issue. And it's hard to be surprised. The Polish prisoner Auschwitz-Birkenau, Karol Tender, sued this television to court. And, ladies and gentlemen, there was a trial going on, and then German public television didn't want to publish a correction for long. We all know the case. In a word, we need tools. We must have effective legal tools, and thanks to this law, this amendment, we will get these tools. We will get the tools that many countries in the world have, including Israel, and no one should be surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the opposition leader in Israel, in Kneset. I don't have to convince anyone. The State is an experienced politician The opposition leader is a person who, under the conditions of every democratic state, is an important politician who can once take over power. I'm talking about a clean political mechanism that no one should question. If a person who may ever be the leader of this country says such things... Let me remind you that the opposition leader, Mr Lapid, said that there were Polish extermination camps and that no law would change that. He published it as his statement on the Internet. Well, that means we have to act. Because if there are so many cases of slandering Poland's statements in the country of the perpetrators And even in the country, the victims have these kinds of statements, and it's from the most serious people in the country. This means that we must decisively counter it. In fact, I would say that this is the best proof that this bill is necessary. It is also interesting, dear people, that in this uproar in the world media sometimes voices criticizing our bill, repeating this false information about this amendment, present the same titles that previously used faulty memory codes. Well, it's just a puriazum, and we definitely have to fight it. I strongly encourage the senators to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Martynowski. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to make a formal request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I apply to change the way in which the deliberations are held and to proceed with the discussion and to close the list of speakers submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u326	Thank you very much. Is there an objection? [[I object.]] You're welcome. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u327	Yes, I object, but I would also like to point out that I am in the vote. I ask that at least those who are pinned down may ask a question to the Minister, because it cannot be that the Minister can speak here and we cannot ask questions to the Minister. We have the right to do so in accordance with the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u328	Thank you very much, Senator. We proceed with the vote on Senator Martynowski's motion. Who's in favour of the senator's motion? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Sixty-three senators voted, 49 for, 13 against, and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Senator Martynowski's motion has been accepted. Let's get to the discussion. You were the first Senator to sign up... [[Bogdan Klich.]] ...Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you kindly for...]] [[You can ask the minister in the hallway.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you very much for the 13 hours spent in the House. Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] [[In the hallway... because I had a question for you... we're still scared of the PiS...]] You're welcome. [[The voice from the hall: I'm sure it's not...]] [[Don't be afraid. What's there to be afraid of?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I very much regret that Minister Dziedziczak cannot answer our questions, because most of the questions we have asked so far should, however, be addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The next questions we wanted to ask aren't exhausting what we've heard from the Vice Minister of Justice so far. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not be surprised that I, Mr Marshal, and probably other colleagues of mine, will use arguments in our speeches concerning the operation of our diplomacy. And in fact, I'd like to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry. I ask you to remain calm and allow the senator to give a speech.]] And in fact, at the third point in my speech, that is exactly what I want to talk about, the effectiveness of our current diplomacy. But I would like to start with things that are probably obvious to all of us in this room, because we are adults and we know Polish history. And I think that for most children in Poland it is obvious who is responsible for the Holocaust. I think no adult Pole has any doubt that it was Nazi Germany who was responsible for organizing and carrying out this terrible project, which was the extermination of almost the entire Jewish nation in the area occupied by the Nazis. And there is probably no difference between us that all the concepts that Minister Dziedziczak spoke about, in the style of Polish death camps, Polish extermination camps, Polish concentration camps must be stigmatized by us and must be combated. And if, indeed, the political tools of our diplomacy are not sufficient, there is indeed a need for criminalisation in this respect. And I have the impression that most people in this room share that view. But at the same time, it must also be realized that, in order to be penitentiary, for someone to be punished, the law must be clear and transparent, so that there is no doubt in which circumstances and to whom it is to be applied. Thus, and in terms of the subject matter and the subject matter, it must be clear and precise. And in that respect, this law is not. That is why I asked the rapporteur and why I asked the Deputy Minister of Justice what certain provisions of the Article meant. 55a in the version submitted by the designer to find out who and under which circumstances the penalization can be applied. And as I hear, this catalog of acts can be wide. The Minister mentions only some of them, and I believe that this article should be modified, and it should be improved. That is why I will be making an amendment, which was previously tabled by my colleagues at the committee meeting and which concerns that in the article. 55a very precisely define We agree that it is about fighting those who believe that Polish concentration camps, Polish death camps and Polish extermination camps were in Poland. Mr Marshal, I would like to make an appropriate amendment in this regard. Secondly, I think that the penalization of public discussion in Poland about our latest history is dangerous. I believe that public discussion in Poland under the scrutiny of the prosecutor is actually threatening freedom of speech. I believe that there can be no exchange of views under the prosecutor's eye, because this is not in line with the principles of the democratic state and the open state. It's indulging in freedom of speech. There's a lot to be done about the latest story. Because how many people in Poland know a lot about what Jan Karski did, what Irena Sendlerowa did, what Jan Karski did in the Polish-Jewish dialogue Jan Nowak-Jezioranski did, how the actions of ordinary Poles in this area looked like Not only the outstanding ones I mentioned, but also those who are not listed in the Yad Vashem catalogue? Yad Vashem catalogue is incomplete It currently covers about 9 thousand Polish names, but in the framework of the program, India, which was run by the Institute of Strategic Studies together with the Institute of National Remembrance and State Archives, managed to identify another 6 thousand Polish victims, another 6 thousand who suffered the sacrifice of their lives for helping Jews. These are the names, these are the biographies that make us think about those we don't know about yet. How many Poles who for various reasons did not admit in the past and still do not admit to gestures of help towards Polish fellow citizens, what were the Polish Jews? On the other hand, aside from Silk, except Kielce, how many examples of the villainy we've heard about? Of course, Senator Oremski is right when he says that it was all decomposing according to Gauss' curve: on one side there were cases of heroism and on the other side there were cases of villainy. And in order to fully understand our latest history, we need to discuss this, but we cannot conduct this discussion under the threat of criminal sanctions. This discussion in Poland must be conducted in an open, transparent and without threat of criminal sanctions, because that is the freedom of public debate. And it seems to me that our senator duty is to correct this bill in this respect, narrowing down the Penalization to what hurts us the most. What is sometimes done with ignorance, and very often in bad will The issue of assigning the Polish nation and the Polish state responsibility for concentration camps created by the Third German Reich in the areas of the former and present Republic of Poland. That's why it's an amendment. The third thing I would like to say is that this is not what the Deputy Minister What said, that the consequences of the bill could not be predicted in such a way. Of course you could. Of course it was possible, because for those who follow the Polish-Jewish relations and I have been following them since 1995, i.e. for almost 23 years, it is a clear matter on which thin string these relationships are based, so to speak, and on how thin the thread is found all our mutual successes during these last years. Because we have achieved a common Polish-Israeli success when it comes to reconciliation and agreement, but this is very delicate matter. [[Mr. Senator...]] And this delicate matter in an easy way, as reality shows, can be called into question. And you can reach This will be the last sentence, Mr. Marshal. The effect is completely opposite to what was intended. If one of the most significant web sites, portals, web policy, summarized that within 24 hours to 23 and 28 million people around the world reached the hashtag of Polish death camps... I believe that this was the result of such a law. This effect was predictable and counterproductive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u330	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will start by referring to the last words of my esteemed previous speaker, because if I understood it correctly, we should speak in a quiet voice at all, or preferably under a blanket and not use the words of the Polish camps loudly, because the whole world repeats them. Well, I don't think that's logical. [[No, it's the opposite. That's not what I said, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, there is no doubt between us that Poland has the right to defend historical truth and its role in this latest tragic history of Poland, Europe, the world, and that it has the right to defend its good name. After the various speeches that I heard during the meeting of the Human Rights Committee and the Culture Committee, because this was a joint meeting, and here, during the long-term session of the Senate in the plenary room, it would seem that this key provision of the Article would appear. 55a is badly constructed. Because there was such a fear that maybe he over-penallizes the behavior that we're trying to eliminate to chase them. Well, I don't see this excess. This provision, as the referees, government representatives, rightly emphasized, is an example of the solution to Auschwitz's lie. This is the full coverage of all actions that we might consider to be defaming Poland and its role in the history of World War II. And at the same time there are so-called. counter-attacks, i.e. circumstances excluding the possibility of committing a crime and bringing it to account Just scientific and artistic statements. I've heard so many times that it's difficult to interpret a word. Of course there are such words in the bill. Those of you who know a little about criminal law will agree with me that often there is the word "reliability." Now we all know what persistence is? We'd probably give you different definitions. The court must deal with this and interpret such difficult terms which cannot be avoided in the event of certain acts. It's the same here. If we hadn't introduced that limit And we have learned that this is the result of the consultation with the Jewish state, that we would be accused of introducing an excessive scale of penalization. At the same time, please pay attention to this I'm telling you this, I'm not gonna say anything new here, but I'm telling you that you're talking about facts. Each statement shall be entitled and shall not be punishable under that law if it relates to facts and not to statements which are unfounded, not based on facts and which do not exist in terms of national activity. Sure, we may have some difficulty identifying what is scientific activity and what is not. But the Minister who rightly pointed out here that there is already such a criterion in one of the criminal laws and the caselaw of the Supreme Court has grown, on the basis of which other judges who later rule will surely be able to determine what these circumstances are. It can be said that all these concerns about whether we have formulated these rules correctly are understandable. But do we have to give in to the heat of the moment? Or should we remind ourselves that there is a bilateral team appointed by the Polish Government with the participation of the Israeli Government, which will investigate these matters? Perhaps it will come to conclusions that will get the government to accept the amendment of this law. Let him do his job. I believe that at present there is no better wording than the article. 55a. And we should support this article, we should adopt this change. We can't get screamed. We cannot bow to the pressure of foreign countries and we will not make rolling our legislative process dependent on the political moods that prevail in other countries, the moods that are variable. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a valid source of what happened today in Israel, what is written by various web portals. Subject to this, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a clear statement that the above-mentioned provision of the Law is mainly about Article. 55 and all this law, if not removed by us, will prevent... or will give grounds to prosecute for the fact that someone will say that Poland and Poles were accomplices to the Holocaust. That's what this is all about. We want to defend ourselves against this bill. And the protest goes in that direction so we can be defenseless so we can be prosecuted. We can't agree to that. [[Applause]] If we do not react by adopting this law, then the narrative will continue to dominate And it's such a fashionable word. That all this was done by the Nazis and Poles were accomplices. And the victims will be considered executioners. This bill is supposed to stop it. And it is our sacred duty to adopt this law. Because this is our responsibility to the Polish people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u332	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u333	Mr. Marshal, it may be that my speech will exceed ten minutes. In that case, please add me another five minutes, because this is the second time I'm not going to speak. [[Voice from the room: Discussion is closed.]] [[The list has been closed, Senator.]] Then I'll try to make time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you of a few historical facts, because I think that a certain chronology of events is also important to give here the essence of the problem. And I'll tell you right away that I've been feeding off the official publications that the Institute of National Remembrance has been developing over the last years, which have been available to a wider audience for many, many years, to which it has been freely accessible and which have absolutely not aroused any controversy. The author of some of these publications and the facts described here is our excellent colleague from the Senate, Prof. Jan Żaryn. In 1939, around 3 million 400 thousand Jews lived within the borders of the Second Republic of Poland, which represented around 10% of the population. total population, but according to another measure on the scale of Poland as much as 27.3% The inhabitants of the cities belonged to the Jewish religious communities. The Polish state guaranteed the free development of the Jewish minority without forcing it to integrate culturally or politically with Poles. The basis of these guarantees was both the so-called small Treaty of Versailles, internal law and the actual influence of international Jewish communities intercede for their compatriots living in the Second Republic. The Polish state left a significant space of public life for its citizens, including national minorities, including the Jewish minority. The outbreak of World War II and the aggression of Germany, followed by the Soviets on the land of the Second Republic, fundamentally changed the living conditions of millions of people, especially Poles and Jews. The operation of extermination of Jews began at the end of June 1941 on the lands taken over by the Germans after the Soviet occupation. By July 1944, the Nazis murdered about a million people, mostly Jewish. In turn, the action of Reinhardt, i.e. the liquidation of Jews residing in the ghettos in the General Government, began in March 1942, but only the great liquidation operation in the Warsaw ghetto of July 1942 illustrated the terrible truth about the fate of Jews. During the next two years around 3 million Polish Jews were murdered in the extermination camps in Poland. By the end of the war also European Jews died, in total about 6 million people died together with the Polish people. However, the repressive policy of Germany has liberated many impressions of solidarity among the Polish people. By 2008, the Yad Vashem Institute in Jerusalem honoured 22,000 211 people, including 6,000 60 Poles, or more than 1/4 of the total. This figure represents only the tip of the iceberg phenomenon, which was the actual scale of aid brought to the Jews by Poles during World War II. On average, one person from the Jewish family could have been involved from several to several dozen Poles with their families in the rescue. This gives a minimum of 300,000 to 1 million Poles who in one way or another tried to actively help those in need. The term "aid' must be confronted with the conditions of occupation, in which even the occasional gestures of kindness, and not only the constant hospitality, may have affected the extension of someone's life or the loss of their own. The Polish lands were the only ones on whom the death penalty was strictly executed for any power given to the Jew. The first regulation of Governor Hans Frank in this case was issued in October 1941, another, even more restrictive one, in November 1942. Governor Frank wrote in it that the assistance given to the Jews was not considered to be merely overnights and meals, but also to carry them with any means of transportation, to buy from them various goods, etc., and even to avoid reporting to the competent authorities about the stay of the Jew outside the designated area. Death threatened both Jews and their benefactors, Poles who sheltered, carried them from place to place, even gave a slice of bread, sold food, and did not even report the fact that they were hiding the Jew by a neighbor or other person. In Warsaw alone, from the years of the occupation from the ghetto to the so-called Aryan side from 25,000 to 30,000 people of Jewish origin came out. In total, according to historians, at least 30,000 survived the war on the German occupied lands, and the estimates reached as high as 120,000 Jews. Polish historian from the Institute of National Remembrance, Dr. Marcin Urynowicz says that according to estimates at least 300,000 Poles saved Jews and at the same time estimated the number of saved As the lowest of the accepted For 30,000 people of Jewish origin. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the facts that show the unimaginable suffering of the Jewish people condemned by the German Nazis to extermination are important and worth recalling. The suffering of the Polish people should also be emphasized The part that did not want to submit to the German fascist ideology and, without hesitation, went to the aid of others, including the Jewish people above all, was subject to a death sentence. In both cases, it meant the same death because of ethnic origin. Both of these groups have undoubtedly at least one common denominator. Both were nationals of Poland, the Second Republic of Poland. And it was a country where the underground authorities officially went to help both. The Polish Underground State treated all individual cases of collaboration and money from Poles, who spent their own benefits on behalf of their fellow citizens of the Jews as treason and collaboration. There was only one penalty: a death sentence at the hands of the Home Army soldiers, issued and executed in war mode. There is no difference between the suffering or martyrdom of a Jew, Pole, Russian, Ukrainian, French, Dutch, Czech Republic, Slovak or finally German, because there were also cases of resistance to German Nazism among representatives and this nation. It doesn't matter if pain and death are given to a representative of one race or another. The modern world, among other things. On the basis of the terrible experiences of World War II, it officially defends the dignity and respect for the rights of every individual, which is enshrined in treaties, desiders, laws and other documents. The defence of human dignity also involves respecting the rights of entire nations to self-determination and telling the truth about them, based on facts, including, above all, the events that have taken place in the past. Therefore, no opinion of any policy of any opinion-making environment aimed at making false opinions about another nation should take place. It is a simple lie, the consequences of which may affect the international position of a country, a country and a society living within its borders. This is the stakes for which the game is played, led unfortunately often by the method of dirty fighting, lying campaigns or even blackmail. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the Republic of Poland has the full right to insist that the history of its citizens and people be told in the world of truth, only and only truth. Poland has the right to defend the memory of its citizens, heroes, all human lives spent on innocent death. Death for the origin, for the citizenship of the Second Republic, for the struggle for independence of his homeland, for humanitarian gestures, human help and sacrifice in defence of the life of another man. Any attempt to blur the border between who was the executioner and who was the victim is unethical from the point of view of common values in various contemporary philosophical trends. It is also unethical to attempt to slaughter particular political interests on the suffering and victims of their fellowmen, e.g. from the current political calendar in our country, or economic interests driven by the desire to increase their assets in one sphere or another. The amended act is reduced to such an obvious formula. It is intended to ensure that the Polish state can demand that its history is not falsified in the majesty of the law. We have the right to see and appreciate the fact that Polish society did not participate in the Holocaust run by Nazi Germany in order to save and help the Jewish people from the structures of the Polish Underground State. On the other hand, the Republic of Poland has the right to defend the good name of its country and nation, to take care of their good name both here in Poland and in the international arena. It is the fundamental principle and its misrepresentation that accords with the fundamental interests of our homeland, which accords with its rightful state. Finally, perhaps the most important thing, without protecting these values, is the memory of the victims, all the victims. People, Polish citizens, ancient inhabitants of Polish lands, regardless of their origin Polish, Jewish or anything else. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the revised provisions of the National Remembrance Institute Act... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...against the Polish people, that is precisely what they serve and only these purposes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u334	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Quoting is a well-known quote. The former Prime Minister of Russia, Chernomyrdin, I will say this: we had good intentions, and it came out as usual. Unfortunately, it is necessary to characterize this bill. I have bitter satisfaction... By the way, Minister Jak said that for a year and a half no one was interested in the bill, no one made any comments to it. Of course, we read the wrong papers, that's true. It just so happens that two weeks after the first reading of this law. and this first reading took place on October 5, 2016.. I wrote an article on this subject in the weekly.Politics and I have bitter satisfaction, because that's all I wrote there, today we have. Of course, I'm not going to read this article right now, and I'm sending it back to him, and if anyone really wants to, I can even send it to him, so there's no problem. Anyway, the thesis that's in there is working today. Well, there are two issues in this bill. One point is to prevent difamational, offensive, unfair, hurtful statements that undoubtedly appear in public space, but let us stress in which public space. Are we talking about Polish space, or are we talking about foreign space? Because all the examples we've been talking about here are about foreign space. And these are above all terms related to responsibility, supposed responsibility of Poles for concentration camps, which are called variously, factories of death, and these are Polish extermination camps, etc. I ignore at the moment that many of those who say so do absolutely not claim that it was the Poles who organized them. They treat it in geographical terms. This was the way John Karski once treated it. Polish concentration camps. We ourselves often talked about the Czech concentration camp in Terezin in the past, although we Poles knew very well that it was not the Czechs who organized this camp. But I agree that for the young generation it is already beginning to be a problem, because repeating such phrases in the case of people, young people who did not live at that time, nor do they have this historical memory, nor are they well-educated, may I establish this carbon. Theirs might be the film that's gonna hold up. That's why you have to fight it, there's no question about it. What's this fight supposed to look like? Well, in this law there is no such wording concerning camps, there is a general wording: who assigns, etc., etc. How is this fight to be fought? It is to be executed through judgments of Polish courts against people, citizens of other countries. Well, ladies and gentlemen... Minister What was trying to answer the question of how we will bring them to our prisons or how we will draw these fines from them or restrict their freedom. We're not going to do this because the arrest warrants that we're talking about here result when a crime is also a crime in another country. And there is nothing here to claim the lie of Oświęcim, because the lie of Oświęcim is considered to be a crime by many countries, and therefore it is possible to deal with judgments against the citizens of these countries. Oświęcim lies are a very specific formulation. It means that those who deny that mass murders were committed in Oświęcim, gassed and burned people, are subject to criminal liability. And that's a big... That's specific. And what do we have in this bill? In this law we have a general wording on crimes and other crimes, etc. If there was a formulation here concerning the assignment of specific responsibility for camps to Poles, for concentration camps of extermination, then it would be very concrete, then there would be no doubt. And that's case one. Case number two. There are also wordings to punish for the reduction, for assigning more indeterminate crimes, etc. The case of historians and artists has been raised here all the time. All right. What if a reporter writes that? He's not a historian. What happens then? The answer is: it will be considered by the court. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we want to live in a country where any organization, because this law allows it, brings a complaint to court, sues someone for something she doesn't like. Well, then we'll have a flood of that kind of stuff. Everyone will be dragged into court just because they've used a phrase that this organization doesn't like. And this can be done by a journalist, this can be done by a teacher... Well, you can't write the law like that! Come on. Minister Jak gave an interview. Well, I read what Minister Jak says and writes because he's an active man. Well, in this interview, He says yes. The question is: If the amendment had been in force earlier, would President Obama, who used the phrase "polish death camp" have been prosecuted? Answer: No. We've translated it many times. It's about deliberate action. I take in hand the bill, the one we have received, and I read: if the perpetrator of the act referred to in paragraph. 1 acts unintentionally, is fined or punishable by restrictions on freedom. What's this? This is some kind of joke. I'm not talking about the fact that Minister Jak probably doesn't know the bill, because he's saying something completely different. How can you be punished for involuntary action? Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you how this should be done. This should be done as follows. There is a Polish National Foundation which receives, it seems, already 200 million PLN from companies of the State Treasury, and which so far has shown itself solely by accusing several judges of stealing sausages and pants. It's about time she took care of it. How's he gonna handle this? You have to hire a decent law firm, best in the United States, because they know about it, or in the United Kingdom, because it'll be closer. And in any such case, you have to ask for a correction first, and if you don't, you have to ask a civil court to impose a financial penalty, because such punishment will affect them, not a prison sentence that will do nothing to them... Of course, gentlemen, you will say that yes, on a civilian road, we can do that too, that this bill allows it as much as possible. Then what are those punishments for? Why? What? That it's prevention? What is this prevention from? And there won't be any action. There won't be any action. So this is the way we have to go. So I... I know that there is a political directive, that you should adopt it as soon as possible, so that we can close this topic quickly, and then we can talk, maybe it will improve, maybe something will happen, etc. After all, I would have a really restless conscience if I hadn't tried to correct this bill, because I care not to push us into this political mess, which unfortunately you are pushing us into, all of us, all of us Poles and the whole country. Well, I suggest that this revised, just introduced, this famous art. 53a... I'm sorry, Art. 55a, who says: "who publicly and contrary to the facts assigns the Nationals of Poland, etc., to replace the following words: "The good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish People is violated by those who assign the Nationals of Poland or the State of Poland responsibility or joint responsibility for the creation or operation of concentration camps or other extermination camps established by the Third German Reich during the occupation of the territory of the Republic of Poland. And then all these civil activities that are going to take place will certainly also gain the support of all countries, because this is an obvious matter. There's no doubt about it here. There will also be no such issues related to historians and non-historians, because there is nothing to investigate, these matters are quite obvious. How many were there on those 200? Fifty offensive phrases, which took place in two years, probably 80% of them concerned these camps. So let's stick to it. Why do the rest? To continue quoting Minister Jaki... The question was, "The goal was to create a record that would allow us to hold ourselves accountable, for example. Jan Tomasz Gross? Will he be held liable for his work? Minister Jaki's reply:.Jedwabne did not. So Minister Jak is about to decide what someone will be held accountable for, and for which you will not be. Not for Silk. Well, not for Silke, because the IPN has already spoken. Although Mr. Szarek was filming something after that, there's still an IPN study. But Mr. Tomasz Gross, Jan Tomasz Gross, wrote other things. This shows that other things can be held accountable. Why? Because he's not a historian. He is employed as a historian at Princeton University, one of the most outstanding universities. But to Mr. Shark, he's not a historian, because President Sharek said he was a publicist, not a historian. So what I'm asking is, is it directed against these kinds of people, or isn't it? Well, unfortunately, there are serious concerns that it is. Please note that I have not used the word "Israel" once before. For what I wrote two weeks after the first reading of this law had not yet been associated with Israel, no one had yet anticipated any protests from there. That bill just rattled me from the very beginning. This isn't how things work out. Now, let me tell you what happens next. Because it's bad enough, but what happens next? When that sentence comes, we'll try to chase for example. The paper that wrote it, do you know what this paper will do? What our tabloids do in these situations. If a tabloid criticizes a Member or a Senator, and the Senator writes a corrigendum that it's not true, as you can lie, etc., then this newspaper doesn't include, but adds to the Senator, he finds what he once said, what he did, etc., etc., etc. She's just gonna prove that she's right. And in our case it will look like that they will write about camps, we will go to our court, the court will convict them for 2 years, and they will write: here they are condemning us, and after all, here we are, Jedwabne, Wassosz, 13 villages where Jews were murdered, in which Poles were murdered, Kielce pogroms, various such, goldsmiths, etc. I mean, they're gonna have a lot of it. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. And these readers, listeners, viewers will hear it first and foremost. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the thing isn't... And here I am referring to the speech of your marshal, who, I must say, has upset me with this statement, because he said that we must not give in to pressure, we must not be screamed and so on. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first you produce a bill, which is a bad bill, it's a bubble that causes us serious problems, and when there are protests, it's said: you mustn't get screamed. Well, I'm very sorry, but this is a terrible policy. You have to be able to take a step backwards or sideways. What I propose is that this amendment, which I propose, closes the subject, allows for action and ends this insane dispute, not only with Israel, but also with internal ones, in the country, with people who are just afraid and will be afraid to say anything about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u336	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Patrick, as corrected.]] Minister Jak, right? [[Wait a minute.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Just corrigendum.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u337	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'd like to make amends... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] I appreciate the rhetorical abilities of your marshal, and I really appreciate it, but technically... Dear Marshal, if you would remind yourself, for example. our discussions about the bill on the verification commission, it's like I remember it was exactly the same: you here, what, you come, unconstitutional committee, a few years will pass before any court makes a decision. I said it wasn't true, because the administrative courts didn't do it and I gave the statistics. And Mr. Marshal: no, absolutely, all these years and you'll see that I'm right. Well, what did it turn out to be? And today, the situation is that... I have been asked a question about how criminal legislation in Europe will possibly be implemented. Mr Marshal has come to the floor and consistently claims that this will not be possible due to the prohibition of double criminality in general in the European Union's space. But I told you before we had an art. 55b, which excludes double criminality, as is apparent from the 2008 Framework Decision, and which gives an opportunity and hope that this type of action, although it will not be easy But I told you it wouldn't be easy. It would have its legal basis. So please don't mislead the High Senate. If I'm being accused of not reading the bill, then... Unfortunately, I have the same impression of your marshal, because it was enough to read the item below, and there it is described exactly what this exclusion concerning double criminality concerns. There is also a rhetorical procedure that applies, which the honourable marshal used, saying that I was asked the question, what about the publication of Jan Gross concerning Silk and whether he would be prosecuted for it. I said that I didn't and that I've already explained it in a broad way today. And Mr. Marshal in this connection drew a conclusion: yes, for Silk, it's not, but for other things it's what he's gonna be after. Well, that's how you talk, you know... Or many times we read an article that is written here, a countertype that excludes scientific research, therefore historical research, artistic activity, but consistently, stubbornly, it is claimed all the time that it will not be possible to carry out this type of activity, such as it did. The gentleman I mentioned earlier. Even though it's written in the bill. This is the business, I'm sorry for calling you disinformation in the High Senate, which is why I had to correct it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u338	Thank you very much. You're Marshal Borusewicz, aren't you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a serious law that has serious consequences. This could not be seen in the Sejm on Friday when the Sejm passed this bill. Yeah, but it's hard not to see it in the Senate today. It's been a few days, and we know what's going on. In the Polish legal system, there are already provisions that refer to acts directed against the Polish nation and the state. The person who publicly insults the People or the Republic of Poland is punishable by imprisonment up to 3 years old. 133 of the Penal Code. Who, in a public place, demonstrates the disregard of the Nationals of Poland, the Republic of Poland or its constitutional bodies, is subject to arrest or fine. 49 §1 of the Code of Offences. So there are and there were possibilities of penalizing what the law wants to Penalize, i.e. the application of the concept of Polish death camps. So what are the reasons for this bill? You say that the reaction in Israel is related to their internal situation, to the internal struggle between the opposition and the government. What's the bill for? To strengthen your electorate of the far right or the electorate that creates the Lviv country? The government, which takes responsibility for this law, may say that some of the laws, those relating to Ukraine, have been introduced by Members, but, after all, is involved in promoting and proceding this law, and therefore assumes responsibility for the whole of it. The Law and Justice Government has been in conflict with all its neighbours, with Germany, with the Ukrainians, and at the moment it has created a conflict with Israel. And not only with Israel, because that also means conflict with the United States. It's a conflict, isn't it? also with Jewish organizations, international Jewish organizations. For many years, for almost 30 years, all previous governments and all previous presidents have sought to make the conflict that was and which had historical basis in the facts off the agenda so that it will stop interfering with international contacts. As a result of these actions, none other than Jewish organizations in the United States, the 2 largest Jewish organizations, supported our accession to NATO. And these organizations were against using the term "Polish extermination camps" with us. He was our most important ally in opposing these kinds of terms that were not true. Of course there were no Polish camps They were in the territory of the Polish state, which was occupied by Nazi Germany. You should have found your allies... He was our most important ally. What's going on right now? What is the consequence of this law, the international political consequence, but also within Poland? We have entered into a conflict not with the opposition party in Israel, but... At the moment, Knesset is preparing an identical bill that introduces the Penalization, punishing those Holocaust denials too is already being legalized there. • who deny or minimise the participation of helpers in the Holocaust. This is, I'd say, a countertype taken just from this bill. 61 members of the Kneset signed off on this. There's a similar response in the United States Senate. So this is not just a conflict with Israel and the world's Jewish organizations, we are in conflict with the United States. What about the internal situation? What is the impact of this law on the internal situation? This bill caused that what all Polish presidents were working on...Wałęsa, Kwaśniewski, Kaczyński, Komorowski They rebuilt relations, good Polish-Israeli and Polish-Jewish relations. And this law destroys these relations, this law causes the decks of anti-Semitism, which are in the Polish people, to come out. This muddy water... The water was calm and clean. And now? We see what's going on, we hear these different voices. This is the responsibility of the initiators of this law, the Polish government, who proposed this law, and the parliament which is working on this law in such a way. We're gonna shove it right through her knee and show her that we don't care at all. How can this be done? Who's gonna pay for what you're doing right now and for what you've prepared? Before, you could still think that nothing like this would happen, but today in the Senate you can no longer push this law in such a mode, in night mode. Well, we'll vote at night, but it's nothing. It is important what will result from this for Poland and for Poles. The results of all of this will be like the worst. I do not understand how you could have come up with such an idea without analysing the international situation, without looking at what will be the receipt of this law in Poland and what it will cause. It's not just a matter of that one concept. What about the Ukrainian case? Well, Ukrainians can be put here because they're in a difficult situation. You can introduce such laws, solutions. I remember that even recently, with a similar proposal, the Senators of the PIS withdrew under the influence of the Senate Marshal. [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, At the moment it is here, so to speak, the Ukrainian law, which deals with these crimes from 1925 to 1950. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I have already asked, on what terms and why this particular period was taken without any justification. I understand it's 1943 and 1944. But what does 1943 have to do with 1925 and 1926? This is a very bad bill, for which we Poles will pay. I'm filing a motion to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u340	Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In the 1990s, as a journalist, I came across the accusation that Poles in one of the newly liberated cities in Pomerania had locked 150 Germans in a railway car and frozen them there. This would of course be a crime and the fact that it was Germans, in this case it might not have any special meaning, but after many months of research, publishing various certificates and Germans, and Poles from that time, it turned out that it was a typical fake news, which however was circulating and lived in Germany for nearly 50 years. After explaining it in the German newspapers, the real information appeared, and the Germans, former inhabitants of Żuław, apologized to the Poles for colporting this false information. Is today... Not today, actually. Tomorrow. Tomorrow, would I have the courage to discuss such a subject in the paper? Would I write in the paper about such accusations that I heard not in Poland, but in Germany? Would it be possible for the public to discuss such matters? Of course not. I would be afraid of accusing Poles of committing crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. And there would still be a story around the world today that Poles were no better than the Nazis, and they did not need to build concentration camps to murder hundreds of innocent people, because such stories about this crime were circulating in Germany. And let's imagine it would be different. Well, it could be, we know that. That my journalistic research would be effective in knowing that, however, such an event took place, that this crime was committed. That Poles, perhaps former prisoners of the concentration camp in Stutthof Because it was going to take place 15 km from this camp, which was still active then in the wagon that was being transported to this camp of prisoners, they decided to take revenge on the Germans and so cruelly murdered them. What then? The journalist is neither an artist nor a scientist. How am I gonna prove it? And is it even a journalist's job to prove such facts? In a similar case, only more media, or pogrom in Jedwabne, to this day what scientists, researchers say, and that is not what Minister Anna Zalewska says, and that is not what the President of IPN, Jarosław Szarek, says. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country where we already know The party truth is more important than the truth established by scientists and researchers, and I could probably be in charge of the prison cell. And it's no wonder the world is afraid of this bill, because it's supposed to serve not the truth, nobody has any illusions today. Only party interests, for me inexplicable other than deep complexes and xenophobia of the leaders of this party. This law also has the right to fear Poles. Because in recent days the formulation of the Polish death camps has appeared in the media many millions of times. As Senator Klich said here, 25 million times in 24 hours. I am convinced that this is much more than in more than 70 years of our post-war history. What is the cause of this? That's the bill right there. These fake news appeared at the explicit request of Law and Justice. And by the way, It is not for the first time that the PiS goes hand in hand with Putinian ideology in its ideology, because Russia introduced a similar law in 2014 which it also supposedly wants to fight against historical revisionism. I am afraid of these imposing associations of PiS policy with the achievements of Russian or Turkish democracy. Because Turkey has a similar law. Only that Turkey gave up prosecuting these crimes abroad after two years. Perhaps it is worth asking the Turks why they have amended this recipe instead of building a wall of resentment around Poland, behind which besides Germany, French, Ukrainians appear: Israel, and in a moment the United States, Great Britain and perhaps other countries. Minister Jak says something like this was unpredictable. Even if we believed it, the Senate, it is certain that the adoption of this law by the Senate will be very badly received by the world and Poland will be very badly received. And no one in two or three days, six months from now, a year from the senators who raise their hand in favor of this bill, will be able to say As did Minister Jak He's surprised by the world's reaction. She's predictable. One more thread on this bill. We've just been investigating another bill on the liquidation of the Senate's secret ballot. They say that the PiS wants to abolish secrecy in the name of public disclosure and the right to show the truth, because the nation has the right to know real views and positions. But in historical matters, we think differently. You want to close the gate to a free discussion about our Polish history. And under threat of imprisonment. Freedom of speech, like the earlier independence of courts, like freedom of elections, becomes subject to party interests. It turns out that values are important for PiS only if they can achieve the current objectives. I wonder what this party of yours is afraid of. What other intentions do you hide from Poles? Who else do you want to fight the Polish people with? What do you want to fight us about, Poles, inside the country? I don't think about the consequences of this policy. Poland is and will become more and more lonely in the world. Even those who introduced us into the European Union and NATO are moving away from us. Personalizing, I will say that we are becoming more and more a sick man of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u342	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] Mr. Marshal Borowski, please. [[...me in connection with Minister Jaki's statement to me.]] Turn on the mike, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u343	Yeah, yeah. I would like to ad vocem, so to speak, to respond to what Minister Jaki said about my speech. He said, in general, that my rhetoric is good, only my rhetoric is lacking... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So I'd like to make sure it's not that bad. Well, first of all, he didn't refer to my plea for inclusion in the bill of involuntary insulting. I said he didn't know the bill because his answer to the question was completely different. Minister Jak said I wrongly accused him of not knowing the bill. Yeah, I guess it's the right thing to do. Secondly, the case of Jan Tomasz Gross and Silk. He said I totally misinterpreted it. Let me read the question and answer again. Will Thomas Gross be held liable for his work? It wasn't one job, I said for my work. If the answer had been no, it would have been clear. But the answer was to Silke. No, no, no, no, Well, I figured for other jobs, I guess. Minister Whatever twists the case and says no, no, that's not the point, other, of course, it's you, and so on. Finally, he made absolutely no reference to the discussion on the verification committee in due time. Indeed, I said there that court cases would last a long time, but not in administrative courts. People will appeal to common courts and it will just take a long time. So I think if it's about rhetorical abilities, you'd have to point them somewhere else... And last but not least, I'd like to say, 'cause that's the message. In a sense, at the last minute, read the message that has just arrived. Excuse me... [[But I don't think it's an ad vocem anymore...]] You know, you're not... [[...reading the message?]] Mr. Marshal, it's not, but it's worth reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u344	Thank you very much. [[State Department...]] You're welcome, Senator Zdrojewska. [[...informed: we encourage Poland to re-examine the IPN Act for...]] Senator, you're welcome. [[...possible consequences for freedom of speech and for our ability to be effective partners. Well, it's worth it.]] [[Applause]] There you go, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u345	So we have such a situation that, as Marshal Borowski said, he has already said in this case not only... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...Knesset, but also the U.S. Department of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start by having a sense of shame by performing today. I have had this feeling in this House, unfortunately several times, but today it is particularly dominant, because once again you have closed your mouth to the senators, not allowing questions to be asked, among others. Minister, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. And I wanted to ask the Foreign Minister why there is no Polish ambassador in Israel at the moment. Perhaps the Deputy Minister has escaped these inconvenient questions. Such a difficult situation, which has been unprecedented for the last 10 years, has not been in diplomatic relations with Israel, and we do not have an ambassador in Israel. I would like to remind you that the Ambassador was cancelled on 7 October 2016 with effect from 31 December 2017. In the meantime, I think some ambassador has refused to take this chair, and we are in such a situation today that at this time of crisis, Let's not be afraid of that word because that's what it looks like. We do not have a representative person who would represent the interests of our country in Israel, save the situation, defend the good name of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is truly a scandal. Someone should be responsible for that. But if we have a policy that is closer to San Escobar than to Israel, that is the result, unfortunately. That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like he's the only undetected ambassador. And let's just say that losing international trust is not just the result of this terrible, ill-prepared bill, but also of questioning for months or, I'd say, for two years, or maybe longer international trust. I think that there would not have been this reaction of countries such as Israel or the United States at the moment, if not for these national marches; if not for these anti-Semitic statements on the Polish Television; if not for these gallows for MEPs And without any reaction. If it hadn't been for Mr Czarnecki's mouthpieces, who spread the word to the whole world, or at least to Europe; if it hadn't been for PiS politicians to analyze the evil we've been meeting every day for months. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this law, instead of defending Polish truth and Polish honor, gives consent to interpretations proving our complexes and our weaknesses. And it will be. We will be reminded of the evil we have done, and not of the good that has been spoken of here today. And I'd like to say that it's not just this bill that's exactly counterproductive, which means it's going to work differently. In contrast to what was assumed in terms of goals or intentions, or even the intentions of the creators But also this inability that we are dealing with is evidence of the lack of experts in international policy in our country. It's a complete degradation. This is where the guys talked about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had people like... I'm gonna name some of the unlisted ones because you replaced some of the marshals. I will mention Władysław Bartoszewski, who was booed here and it was observed in the world, and going to the United States, Germany, Israel, he built a good reputation about Poland, he built agreements, he built bridges. I have no grudge against Mr. Jake, who seems to know everything and cares about everything. Maybe in this case, it would be better if he didn't do it so he could give it to the Foreign Ministry. If there were a few more old professionals in this ministry, maybe we wouldn't make those mistakes. So that what fills me right now is a shame that we've also submitted And finally, I want to make this very clear... Because this bill isn't calculated for a foreign reaction. This is not about the good name of Poland in the world. This is about triggering a certain internal reaction, a certain reception, an electorate, etc. At what cost? At a fatal cost, when it comes to foreign policy, it has been built for many years, as I said, by Bartoszewski. For nothing, we built the Polin Museum, which was simply a great foundation for excellent relations. I remember the year of Polish culture in Israel. I remember a wonderful visit to each other. I remember Donald Tusk's visit to Israel. But I also remember Mr Tusk's reaction to pseudokibites, to their fascist slogans, etc. And I'd like to say... And, I would also like to say that I remember how the Polish state contributed to such films as the film about Sendlerowa or gave a grant for the film Agnieszka Holland in the dark. These soft ways of acting, through culture, through building good relationships, made us happy that we have friends, we have friends in Germany, we have friends in Israel, we have friends and we have a good reputation in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid I'm gonna point that out again. The fact that presenting the internal situation in the country and building yourself a position here before the local elections caused the destruction and complete degradation of foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u346	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senators! Historical disputes should actually determine the strength of arguments, the substantive approach, the factual analysis of facts, but never the minister, prosecutor or court. Dear Senators, are we really able to believe today that by force and intimidation we will be able to defend the historical truth, in fact, that this is how we care about the image of our country in the world? Isn't it better to run an information campaign about who created Nazi camps? Today I ask the governing states: where is this great Polish National Foundation really? here was the mentioned budget of PLN 200 million and where is this positive, consistent with the history of Poland? My predecessor, Senator Zdrojewska, spoke of diplomacy, who just said it was a disaster. The fact that there's no ambassador there, that he's out there today, and there's no one to stand there and explain how he really is and what we're talking about, is a double disaster. Supporters of the new law claim that thanks to it Western authors will stop writing about Polish extermination camps. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear this is a very deceptive hope. No Western author of this bill will really care. Senator Borowski spoke very carefully and precisely about this. Poland has no real opportunities to effectively enforce the new law abroad. This was the result of a discussion that once again puts us in a bad light on the international scene. For I dare say that the new law on IPN will not really have any real meaning. It only compromises Poland and undermines the rations we will try to defend in some way. What is this truth that the prosecutors and prison bars need to defend themselves? What is this truth? The fact that there are doubts about the interpretation of the law means that we are still wondering what is allowed and what cannot be said in Poland. And that's the problem. In fact, a well-organised democratic state should never act like this, never. In turn, the new article. 55a talks very widely about assigning the nation or state of Poland responsibility for Nazi crimes, crimes against peace, humanity and other crimes, for which it will be possible to go to prison for up to 3 years. The principles of freedom of speech say that it is possible to punish false claims, lies or slanders, but not for giving a different opinion, and the new rules provide for a very broad responsibility for any acts imputing responsibility to the entire Polish nation. Ladies and gentlemen, during World War II Poland never gave in to the occupier, never. She fought heroically against the Nazi Germans. And I think the whole world knows that. It's about unequal and tragic combat. I think we passed the decency test back then. But we must also not forget my predecessors said this. That there were also people who collaborated with the enemy, who were rich at the expense of their compatriots. Yeah, that's what they were. And in this case, you can't, in the youth language, bullshit. And we must remember and talk about one another, just as wise and reasonable partners speak. And this bill doesn't give us that opportunity. From this point of view, I strongly appeal: let's think about it, because it is better to take a step backwards to then take two steps forward. You don't want to sign the book, because you'll see that we're gonna correct this bill with embarrassment and shame. What satisfaction would that be? It's gonna be a dubious satisfaction because we're gonna be ashamed. And I don't blame Senator Annie Maria Anders, who is annoyed because she feels perfectly that she won't be able to explain this bill to anyone abroad. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to sum it up at the end, because so many beautiful and wonderful words have come out, so to speak, stripping this bill naked and wearing the best outfits. It is time for me to speak, too, especially since I am a member of this committee and have been given an amendment. I'd start with a remark that's addressed to Minister Jaki. He called for us, in matters of fundamental importance, to preserve the honor and dignity of the nation and the Polish state, to maintain, say, a unified front. That is not the case, Minister, which puts your intentions at risk in the case of this bill, because it was not the opposition, it was the goodwill that ordered the amendments to be tabled. And such amendments have been tabled. Meanwhile, representatives of your camp I do not want to say: faithful listeners They rejected these amendments without reflection. These amendments, which he spoke about here, among others. Mr. Marshal Borowski. And this is such a deep dilemma for me, because I have to separate my humble voice, as it were, between loyalty or even the need to open up to other people of my country and some loyalty to the authors of this law. This is a rift of two states that I've already been given a chance to experience. And going back to the bill, I'm going to say yes. I think she's a defensive character in her outline. She doesn't come up against what could happen, what could happen, she comes up with what's happening. And what is happening is that there are very big differences of opinion and even accusations around the experience, tragic experiences of the neighbors during World War II. The defensive act is such that it narrows down the issue of defending the honor and honor of the whole nation. So it is not true, as it is said here, that there are such voices that any event of a shameful nature will be pursued or penalized. They will only be prosecuted if the whole nation and the whole state are prosecuted. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not true that this law prohibits discussion, the invention of new events and facts, or the re-establishing of them. Because the bill says that the nation in its entirety, in gremio, and the state are to defend themselves against accusing themselves of the gravest crimes of humanity, for cooperation and joint responsibility with German Nazis. But let us also return to a context that took place in Oświęcim, but for years it has had its broad branches in various Jewish environments, but also among all those who want to share the blame in four. The trend of these speeches is to go beyond the fences of Oświęcim and Birkenau and make the concentration camp from all over Poland. I can't agree with that for actual reasons, but also for historical research, which indicates that it wasn't. Poland has proved, especially in the area of the neighbourhood, that in its long, 1000-year history and in the case of the shorter neighbourhood, because probably 700-year-old... this neighborhood was not contaminated by the Holocaust. This does not mean that there have been no tragic events, which cannot be an inheritance, but also cannot be forgotten and cannot be crossed by a line. Poland should also take responsibility for them, and as it seems, it happened in the case of Silk. I feel like the heir to my fathers, grandparents, friends, maybe family members, I feel that Silke is burdening me, and I have a debt to those Jews who have not been subjected to the Holocaust system, but who have experienced those moments maybe even more tragic than in Auschwitz. But I would like to say to everyone here that these tendencies to make Poland, from all over Poland concentration camp, question the obvious truth that Nuremberg had already taken place and clearly indicated who was the perpetrator, who was guilty and who was responsible for all this. I did not notice that Poles were on the bench of the defendants. Only Germany, but also the Axis countries, became sole responsible. That's one thing. Two. In the Jewish environments of our neighbors For me, it is extremely and incomprehensible, which foreign voices flow out of the mouth, and even from the hearts of those who should stand and speak with one voice to their persecutors, while they use the language of dictators, and there are accusations that this Polish neighborhood was one great torment, that it is a shame, that is something that should not be mentioned unless it is negative. In the meantime, I say, Nuremberg has already settled these matters. Germany, Nazi Germany, has shown during this crime that they are determined to carry out the full extermination of the Jewish nation. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] But on the Jewish side there are reservations, not only moral nature, that Poles betrayed the neighborhood, did not provide help, and that, which is also obvious, they were moneymakers, even punks who pointed out hiding places or refused to hide. I would like to point out that Nuremberg has just shown what true or full totalitarianism is all about. And under the conditions of totalitarianism, under conditions when German Nazism built, he first took the initiative of Endlösung and then built it technically and legally... I'm saying that legally... [[Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Yes. ...in the sense that he protected himself from possible handshaking by other nations to the Jews through the death penalty and collective responsibility, because they burned villages for hiding. It meant no less, no more, that the individual, family, or group of residents who accompanied the Jews had no chance of doing so. I wouldn't even say it was necessary. To provide this assistance, without risking losing your life. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] That's what happened... I'm done. What was the scale... [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much.]] Last sentence because I didn't finish my sentence, Mrs. Marshal. [[There you go. But it's been 11 minutes.]] This happened when Nazism fell in Hungary, that it still had the strength to send 400,000 Jews to the gas chambers in Treblinka and Auschwitz. That was the essence of totalitarianism, and it is that the individual... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...there's no choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u350	Everyone's got the same rules. [[Five more minutes...]] There aren't five minutes because the list is closed, Senator. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. You're welcome... [[Is it closed yet?]] Yes. I mean, the motion was overruled. [[That's what I'm calling for.]] Okay, here you go. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing an amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and have not yet adopted this amendment, and we already know how controversial it is. I would like to focus on the 2 threads of this law, the name German and Ukrainian. I want to say yes. I do not question the fact that the authors and authors of this bill had good intentions. I believe that yes, they probably had good intentions, because they wanted to give an effective tool to fight the scandalous term that is widespread, Polish concentration camps, understood as concentration camps created by Poles in some way, not geographically, as camps that functioned on Polish lands. And that's my intention. Did it work? Given everything that's going on around this bill, it's hard to say, I don't think so. It seems to me that other activities would be better here, although I do not reject the fact that such a tool, otherwise constructed, would be needed. But it seems to me that a more effective tool would be an institution, which would clearly and in a modern way present the Polish position on this matter. And I want to say This has already appeared in the questions After all, we established such an institution some time ago. This institution is called the Polish National Foundation. When we voted on it, you said that it is an institution that will promote the Polish position and shape a look at Polish matters in the world. Is that what's happening? Well, to be honest, I only remembered this foundation because she was campaigning for, so to speak, dismantleing independent courts. I don't know any of the other activities of this foundation. Moreover, it seems to me that the awareness that this foundation works poorly or does not work at all is growing on the side of Law and Justice. Senator Oremski agreed with me that this foundation should work and not work, you agreed with Minister Jak, who spoke about it, and Minister Anders agreed, who on Twitter even had a discussion about the fact that there was something wrong with this foundation. By the way, I've been accused of praising this foundation. No. I want to make it clear that I do not praise her, I blame her, because she received 100 million PLN or even 200 million PLN, and in a situation where she is to defend the Polish good name and present the Polish position, I do not hear that the management of this foundation participates in any actions that would improve this situation. Now the question is: how do we get out of this situation? I, of course, don't sit on this topic as deeply as government representatives, but I think we need to talk about two things here. The first thing is this. And it's pretty obvious to me. That the ambassador of Israel has gone too far in her statements. I may not know so much the sensitivity of the Israeli side, but the ambassador as a Polish diplomat should know Polish sensitivity and know that here we need to weigh more words, and these words, I think, were less weighted than more weighted. It would be worth recalling those words. This is the first thing. What could we do on the Polish side? It seems rather strange to me that, as part of the good intentions of the authors of this law, we want to create a situation in which we are giving a tool to fight against the definition of Polish concentration camps, or Polish death camps, and at the same time we are not talking about them in this law, but we are describing them with other terms. I think it's clear to say that that's what we're talking about in this bill would make things better. In fact, yesterday, on social media, Mr Giertych presented a proposal for a record that I believe would have calmed the situation to some extent. I'm not a lawyer, but I think it was a good record, a reasonable record. It's worth taking advantage of. It seems to me that if the ambassador, so to speak, were willing to withdraw her words and we were to introduce such a provision, there would be room for some compromise on a matter that I cared about. Now I want to talk about the second thread, which is the Ukrainian thread. This case is, I think, even more complex, although today it has not dominated our debate. I go to Ukraine quite often and I can say yes. The problem... what happened on Volyn was obviously genocide. That's what I'm trying to say. But we must be aware that in the general awareness of Ukrainians, at least this is the result of my experience. It doesn't work like that. The locals, so to speak, Ukrainian nationalists operate a little on the principles of our Cursed Soldiers, i.e. on the principles of Ukrainian anti-communist guerrillaism. We may croak or not, but it must be said that in connection with their perception of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, what happened in Volyn is a detail not even everyone knows about. And you have to realize that. If we want to make a record of, by the way, punishing for promoting flagship, then we need to realise that we can do it at a time when on the other side there is really going to be an awareness that such bad things have been happening, and that awareness to the extent that we would like it to be, is simply not there. That's also what I'm gonna say... how to say it... Punishment for something that our neighbors in broad circles just don't understand and which they don't know seems quite counterproductive to me. And that's what I'd just like to draw your attention to. Finally, I want to say yes. My position, my vote on this matter will also depend on the decision of my club on this matter, but if I were to say for today, for now, how will I behave towards this law? As I understand it, it is unlikely that any amendments to this law should be made to say that for today my personal position is that I will abstain from voting on this law. But as I say, I will also make my final position conditional on what my club's opinion on this matter will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now speak to Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u353	Thank you so much for your voice. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, however, I encourage you to vote for this bill. This law was written so that we would take care of the good name of Poland, that we would take care of our Polish interests, that we would take care of the good name of Poland and the good name of Poles. I have to tell you that I've been watching very closely what's been going on these last few days. The first reactions, the first reactions of politicians, including politicians of the Civic Platform, I liked them very much, encouraged me with optimism, and I thought that we would finally fight for something that Poles had been doing for many years. It's about dignity and truth. Your first statements, your first declarations indicated that we would follow the common front, that we would speak with one voice, that we would speak together in the interests of Poland and Poles. That's what happened in your programs, that's what happened in your statements. Take a look at your Twitter and your colleagues That's what you said. It was and is our business, our Polish business, because for many years history has been lied about, it is given in a false way. What happened during the celebration of the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau surprised us all and made us very sad. This is where Pope Francis was silent. It's a place where you can scream or cry, but you can never say words like that. You can never say political words. You can never play games with politics, play games with those people who died there. They need a lot of respect. Respect for yours and respect for ours. I believe you have respect for them. I believe that you want Poland's good name to be all over the world. And I'm surprised, ladies and gentlemen... We are approaching a situation where the Senate Marshal has been entering this pulpit for 10 years and says, "Let's reject this bill." I wonder why you said something else a few days ago. When you heard there was a problem when you felt the blood, you felt the political possibility, you acted. Too bad, bad, bad. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Applause]] This case should not be used for your posts and for your politics. And when one of the gentlemen said that we made this bill for our constituents... We made it for the Poles! For our dignity and our truth! [[Applause]] This bill is meant to serve this, and it will serve this. And we're gonna adopt this bill without amendment. No one will be, ladies and gentlemen... [[Out of respect for the opposition...]] But I have never interfered with your speech, and I ask you to respect... [[Quiet, please.]] ...the people who speak from this speaker. And I'll tell you that yesterday we probably heard the same voice of a young man who spoke fluent English and said that he knows that the Polish Underground State murdered more Jews than Germany. [[Voice from the room: From Gross.]] So? And your amendment, Mr. Senator, will prevent this man from raising his children, raising his successors and saying that the Polish Underground State murdered more Jews than Germany? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you gonna do to him?]] [[What are you gonna do to him?]] [[Quiet, please.]] So we're not supposed to do anything, right? Don't do anything. Of course. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're not supposed to do anything. We are to have respect, respect for ourselves, but above all respect for those who died there, to those who died in camps, but not only in camps. They're not just death camps, they're holocausts. What caused the Jews with whom we lived so many centuries, who were our friends, and we want our friends to continue... And we'll do anything, ladies and gentlemen. And I want to say it from this bleacher. So that our friendship, our good relationships, can be rebuilt and lasting. They have the 70th anniversary of proclaiming the State of Israel, we have the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. And we're gonna meet, we're gonna debate, we're gonna talk, we're gonna talk, we're gonna meet historians, and we're gonna continue to have a good relationship. I am very surprised, gentlemen, that there has been a motion to reject this bill. She may be imperfect, but I don't know the perfect law. This country is excellent, too. 'Cause you're experienced politicians. You know. You can correct, you can have doubts, but rejecting a law that speaks about memory and about our dignity, I am very surprised and, above all, very worried. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet. Quiet, please.]] [[Corrections...]] [[But why are we discussing...]] But I'm talking about rejection, Mr. Senator, and that's the rejection proposal. I understand we're working... [[We're talking about amendments.]] ...but that we're rejecting this bill? It's just... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But you're surprised, I'm surprised. You're surprised at something else. I'm surprised at something else. We're different, we're different basically. Well, that's the way it is. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill will take care of and this bill... We're gonna analyze it, we're gonna think about it, we're gonna look at it, they're gonna work the committees. Our great concern is our children and our grandchildren. They need to know what the story looked like, what the fate of the Jews looked like, what the fate of Poles looked like. We have to tell the whole truth, we have to talk about those who saved the Jews, and we have to talk about those Poles who murdered the Jews, but we cannot bring about such a situation that what this young man said is transferred to the next generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u354	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka, Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Antoni Szymański made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been made in writing by the senators... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: I volunteer.]] Yes, yes, in a moment, Minister. ...Bogdan Klich, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? There you go, Minister Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project, as your marshal has already mentioned, is needed and good. In the preamble to the Constitution we read that the common good of all citizens is our homeland, Polish state, Poland as a whole of all citizens and people of Polish nationality. It's good that needs protection. It's good that's good. All of us, and this rule we're debating here today is the article. 55a, such protection ensures and at the same time does not suppress public debate in any way, does not abolish the right to criticism. These constitutional values are secured in a quadruple way, which I would like to stress clearly. I myself met with representatives of the Israeli embassy, and so did the ambassador. In response to many of Israel's concerns, we pointed out that these solutions could change and that they had changed. It is precisely to meet the expectations of the Israeli side that we have amended these provisions and, as I would like to mention in a moment, we have introduced four very important guarantees. First of all, the legislator in this provision uses the concept of the Polish nation or the Polish state as a whole, not with regard to individual persons or groups. So it will never be within what we are talking about here, a criminalized talk about the behaviour of individuals or even groups of people or whole villages, towns, environments. Such speeches against people of Polish nationality, individuals, groups of people or individual villages or towns will never be punished. And that's something that needs to be made clear. Many in this debate, even here, today, also in the international debate, have come to terms that are not true, that the authors of these words have either failed to read the project or are, unfortunately, guided by bad will. I wish the first one wasn't the second one here. Therefore, I would like to point out clearly the very narrow scope of criminalisation. The speech is only about the Polish nation or the Polish state. And now let us imagine the situation in 1939, at a time when this Polish country ceases to exist in the form in which it existed until now, an underground state appears and, for the first time, this country as a whole stands up to fight the occupier. What is important, at this time 100 thousand citizens of Jewish nationality defend in the name of the Polish state of our borders. Why am I talking about this? Because it is so absurd to attribute such shameful behavior to the Polish state and to the Polish nation if we pay attention to the historical facts which I mention here, that... No, there is absolutely no question of suppressing the public debate here. How can anyone speak consciously to the whole nation, the entire Polish state as a collective about the fact that it is responsible for the Holocaust in a situation where the citizens of the Polish nationality, in the name of protecting the borders of this country, faced the German occupation? I would like to point out that on 1 September 1939 in the newspaper of the Jewish minority, our Review appeared such a statement: the Zionist Organization and the Jewish people stand on the Polish side, ready to fight for their dignity and independence. This statement should be a signpost for world Jewry. The place of Jews from all over the world is on the Polish side. And the second statement that appeared the day after that in the same journal. The call was published by the Management Board and the General Council of the Rabbi Association of the Republic of Poland: Brothers in Israel, citizens of the brightest Republic of Poland! The eternal enemy invaded our beloved Homeland, Poland in a wicked, wicked way. We Jews, children of this land since ancient times, stand all in a criminal ward, firm and controlled at the call of the Lord President of the Republic and the Chief Leader, to defend our beloved Homeland, each at the appointed authority of the post, and we will give, when necessary, our lives and our belongings on the altar of the Homeland. This is our greatest civic and religious duty, according to the command of our Holy Faith, which we will most gladly fulfill. So help us and Poland God. [[Applause]] This is a statement from our brothers, our neighbours, who co-created the stateship of the Second Republic with us. And they stood in the name of defending the Polish state, in the name of defending the Polish nation against the Nazi occupation. [[And what does that mean?]] And in this context, the statement of the Polish nation, the Polish state as a whole, in the group is so absurd, contradicts clearly historical facts... [[That's different.]] ...that it's hard at this point not to introduce a rule that would penalize that kind of talk. [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] It is absolutely our duty to formulate a provision that will protect the Polish state, in the name of the protection that our Jewish brothers died. Therefore, this provision is necessary, the provision is necessary. This provision protects the Polish statehood at the time threatened, when they all stood together in the name of its defence. This is the first key issue. I say: the rule does not suppress public debate. This provision does not in any way thwart scientific research on wicked, wicked behavior. As in every nation, in every community of this type of behavior can happen, there can be a role and the role of scientists, researchers, publicists is to discuss it. The role of the democratic rule of law is to secure debate, free debate and this free debate is secured in a fourfold way. So even if someone consciously falsely told the inhabitants of a particular village, a town about the murder of the Jewish people, there is no responsibility under this provision. Why? Because he does not speak Polish nation as a whole, as a whole group, in gremio, does not speak Polish country. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Secondly, the law uses the notion that criminal liability is subject only to those who, contrary to the facts, direct such a talk. Contrary to the facts. And also today, in this discussion, I lacked as a lawyer such a fair, fair debate on what is in this provision. We're talking about talking against facts. Therefore, in a situation where the circumstances of a particular event are not explained, it is not possible to make a clear assessment of the course of the event, the application of this provision will not be involved at all. Contrary to the facts, the mark excludes the possibility of a criminal assessment of a particular case where it is not fully known when it has not been completed when historical studies have not been carried out. whether it is possible, in the light of historical studies, to state that the event may have been different and that the assessment of the persons involved is not unambiguous. In such a case, the formulation of the thesis that a person who is a Polish citizen committed crimes, even if the standards of scientific and journalistic integrity are not respected, will not constitute grounds for initiating and conducting criminal proceedings for this act. Even if the standards of scientific integrity are not respected. Why? Because the phrase "contrary to the facts" means that we are talking about an event that has already been explained in a clear way. This is the second very important guarantee. The third concerns the counter-attribution already mentioned here today, in other words, the exclusion of criminal liability when a person takes scientific action or a given statement or charge is formulated as part of an artistic activity. And here this provision is completely not applied in any way, no part of this provision is applicable. So even the statement by a scientist or artist that Poles attacked Germans on 1 September 1939 is not punished in the light of this provision. And please pay attention to one more thing. Scientific activities. What is this scientific activity? Such a question has also been formulated here today. The IPN Act does not legally define the concept of scientific activity or artistic activity. Thus, according to the principle of presumption of the common language, these terms should be understood in the same way as in the context of the common language, literally. Therefore, the work undertaken by a researcher or a team of researchers in order to advance scientific knowledge should be considered as a scientific activity on the basis of the common language. Even if the person does not have a higher education, even if the person does not have any education, including in particular no historical education, he may also carry out scientific activities. He can study the past, analyze the past, behavior of the participants, publish the results of his inquiries. And this is clearly indicated in the literature that I will refer only to the lexicon of teaching science. The literature indicates that research in a broad sense consists of all activities of the nature of the search for knowledge. Research into sources of information and all kinds of activities involving such activities, the development of materials and the determination of the results of their research, as indicated in the general methodology of scientific work, are subject to this definition of scientific work. [[So everyone's a scientist?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Therefore, in this case, I stress this clearly, there is no risk to the public debate. That's four very important shut-offs. Finally, I would like to point out that the legal good of each country, the individual legal good in the form of personal honor or dignity, is better protected than the good of the Polish nation, the good of the Polish state. Why? For a simple reason. If anyone against anyone in this room directs a discourse, then he will have to prove that this discourse is true, that is, proof of truth rests on whoever speaks to you. The reversal of the burden of proof: it is the defendant who must prove that speaking to another person is real. In this case, however, the defendant, the potential defendant, is relieved of any evidence of the truth. This law-abiding authority, that is, the result of an independent court, is to prove that it is an untrue charge, an allegation of the nature of the assignment of crimes that did not take place in public contrary to these obvious historical facts, contrary to historical truth. For these four reasons, therefore, 4 very important guarantees. Public debate in our country will not be harmed, on the contrary, will be strengthened. Finally, clear rules will be laid down for the protection of such an important good, which is the good name of the Polish state, the good name of the nation, in the name of which our Jewish brothers spilled blood for the first time in 1939. This is not a ghetto, but the September 1939 campaign was the first moment when they all rose together against the invader, the German invader. Therefore, given these guarantees, given the issues we are talking about here, I would like to point out that these rules do not eliminate the possibility of public debate on Nazi crimes or those other crimes. These rules do not in any way eliminate the possibility of publicising cases of participation of Polish people, Polish citizens in Nazi crimes. Finally, these provisions do not in any way eliminate the possibility of carrying out historical research or publishing its results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u356	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. Yes, Senator? [[Mrs Marshal, because the Minister has just spoken with his arguments, I would like to ask you one question. May I?]] [[Voices from the room: No more questions.]] But this isn't the time, it's gone... [[Voice from the room: There was time to ask questions.]] [[Voice from the room: No questions asked, Mr. Marshal closed the list.]] Mr. Senator, we're done here... [[But this is important...]] We're done with Question Time. [[This is important...]] [[The voice from the room: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] [[But, Mrs. Marshal, this is important...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please. [[This is important, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] But we have already finished the questioning tour, Mr President, unfortunately. [[But the Minister spoke outside the program.]] [[Marshal, there were no questions to the Minister about the amendments made. These are very important issues.]] Don't lecture me, Senator. Don't lecture me. [[Minister...]] Don't lecture me, I'm in session. The Minister commented on your amendments. [[No, he didn't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Minister shall have the opportunity to speak at any time and shall have the opportunity to speak freely. You know the rules. Messages, please. [[But at the same time, we would like the Minister to be aware of circumstances that had not been mentioned before.]] Messages, Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u357	There are two messages. First Communication: Joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance The second communication: a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the examination of the requests submitted at the Senate meeting for a draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure will take place today, 15 minutes after the adjournment in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u358	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 1:30 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 00 minutes 44 to 1 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u359	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting will be held on 14, 15 and 16 February 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Government Departments. The Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration presented a report listing the proposals submitted at the meeting of the Committee on Senate Print No 712 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 58 votes against, 24 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. We return to the second agenda: Act amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 713 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator's printing No 723 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing resources of the commune and the amendment of the Civil Code. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. We return to the discussion of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 711 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint meetings of the Commission on 1 February 2018 responded to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. The committees did not support any request and request the Senate to adopt a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate in print No 711 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u361	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Grażyna Sztark and Senator Marek Borowski. [[I'd like to.]] You're welcome, Senator. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u362	Mr. Marshal, I'm just on the spot. I really ask you to vote on this amendment because we... [[Which one?]] About the public vote on the waiver of immunity. I think we all care about not having a secret immunity vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u363	Would any of the senators mentioned just now like to speak? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit questions to rapporteurs and applicants for a maximum of one minute in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution, followed by the amendment in print No 711 X if the proposal is rejected. Following these votes, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. And if the amendment is rejected, someone will file a motion, right? [[Voice in the Chamber: Request for rejection, then amendment...]] I know, yeah. We proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 25 for, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendment tabled. The amendment maintains secret ballots on the appointment and cancellation of Senate bodies and other state bodies, while in immunity and constitutional liability of the Senator the vote will be made public. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 27 votes against, 53 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Will anyone file a motion for a draft resolution without amendment? [[Voices from the hall: No need.]] It's okay. Good. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committee in print No 711 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 57 and 26 against. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Act on Museums and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 722 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the joint meeting of 2 committees, a motion to reject the law was withdrawn. It was therefore voted on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. 11 senators voted in favour of this proposal, 7 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u365	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Władysław Komornicki... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Komaricki, I'm sorry. ...Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Marek Borowski. Senator Marshal Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u366	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, I am referring to this amendment, and I will remind you, which clearly formulates the objective that we would like to achieve, namely to eliminate, let us call it, from the public circulation in the world of the statements of the Polish death camps, the Polish extermination camps. Since Mr Marshal in his speech, well, he critically referred to the proposal to reject this law, it was not my proposal, but there was this conclusion, and I would like to say that he was withdrawn, Mr Marshal said that amendments could be considered, but it is not good to ask for rejection, I ask once again to consider the possibility of supporting this amendment. She's gonna actually let me mute all these problems, get out of this situation face-to-face and vote in favour of this bill, Mr. Marshal, because this bill really raises a lot of doubts. Not only abroad, but also in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u367	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During his work in committee, Minister Jak, with the approval of other senators, members of the PiS Parliamentary Club, I believe, urged that a far-reaching agreement be reached on this matter. In response to this, several senators, senator and senator, have tabled amendments, various amendments, including such amendments. I am talking about my own, I am the author of this law, punishing people who have committed unintentional use of a specific expression during various debates. But it turned out that this amendment was rejected in spite of appeals, like others. In this situation, I do not feel like a defender of this law, and the responsibility for its effectiveness will be borne entirely by the club, the PiS group. I will vote, but not because I support this bill, just because I believe that the dignity and honor of the nation and the Polish state have no price. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u369	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u370	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to repeat from the scene without taking too much time... [[You're welcome. It's okay, Mr. Senator.]] I would like to ask you to reconsider the order of the vote. As Mr Marshal remembers, during the convention, I also spoke in my and on behalf of my colleagues about the fact that we want to defend ourselves effectively against allegations that there were Polish death camps or Polish concentration camps. This is something that we must oppose together, and we are all in agreement if diplomatic means are not enough, including through criminal measures. But at the same time we expressed concerns about public debate in Poland and international consequences. I would like to ask your marshal to change the voting order so that we can consider the amendments tabled by the opposition first and then vote on the whole. I know, Mr. Marshal, that the rules say otherwise, but our common concern is the good name of our country abroad and the unlimited public debate in the country. Our common concern, Mr. Marshal, is also that our allies remain our allies, not as it is written in the State Department document, which is the most serious warning for Poland for twenty years... The State Department fears that the implementation of the law may result in a disruption of strategic relations between Poland, including relations with the US and Israel. The divisions that may result from this can benefit our enemies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u371	Thank you very much, Senator. [[We read, Mr. Marshal, the ratio legis bill.]] Mr. Senator, yes... There's art. 54, which so nicely defines the order of votes, all votes. I could consider it a formal proposal, but there is no formal amendment to the voting order in the list of proposals, no formal proposal, so I have to accept such a proposal... Well, I can't consider him a formal motion. [[Unless it's so-called. Good will.]] There is good will, Senator, but there are no legal possibilities, there are no legal possibilities. [[You can turn it down.]] Would the Senators mentioned earlier like to speak? No. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz withdrew his request: point I in print No 722 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 for, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] [[Applause]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Act on Museums and the Act on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under the threat of punishment. We're coming... I would like to inform you that the order of the fifth sitting of the Senate has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jan Filip Libicki first came forward. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak later.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska. My question is: are foreign students who are students in their country In this case, I mean Ukrainian students have the status of students, and at the same time they come to Poland, take a job on contract-ordering and all the time this status of students in their country, i.e. Ukraine, have... If we are dealing with such a situation, do employers who employ them have an obligation to pay social security contributions for them, or does this confirmed student status from Ukraine make them treat like Polish students, so those who employ them for contract-ordering do not have to pay social security contributions? I have already asked the Ministry by e-mail, and I will probably get an answer to that question today or tomorrow, but I would like this answer to be in a certain official circulation, as an official statement or, as we would say in the Seym language, a senator's interpellation, and therefore I allow myself to make this statement today. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u373	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, On the website of the Government Legislation Centre, a draft law on compensation for some of the damage caused to natural persons by the acquisition of immovable property or movable monuments by the communist authorities after 1944 was included, hereinafter referred to as a reprivatization act. According to the published information, the project is currently at an opinion stage. Its uprising is related to the so-called. Warsaw's reprivatization affair. It shall result in the establishment and operation of the verification commission. However, few people today remember that the direct trigger of the reprivatization scandal was an article in the Wyborcza Gazeta from August 2016. Earlier attempts to sound the problem, e.g. by the Association of the City is Ours, did not have a proper effect. Only that the authors of the article in the Wyborcza Gazet were not about setting up a verification commission, but about creating social pressure in order to adopt a reprivatization law that also met the claims of Jewish communities. Current media storm related to the law amending inter alia. The law on IPN, which penalizes the public attribute of responsibility to Poland and Poles for Nazi crimes, has a similar source. The criticism of the law under the pretext of defending freedom of speech and freedom of scientific research was taken by Israeli politicians. Except it's not about freedom and freedom, it's about money, as always. This law makes it impossible for Poles and Poland to attribute wines which they did not commit and for which they would pay not only morally, but with real money. In addition, we should add what is currently happening in the Polish aspect in the United States. On the one hand, the seemingly innocent appeal of Congressmen from the group on the fighting anti-Semitism in support of the Israeli Jewish stand in dispute with the Polish government and the state, but on the other hand adopted already on December 12 of the previous year by the Senate of the American Act 447, the Act on the obligation to report on the activities of certain foreign countries with regard to the property of the Holocaust era and related issues. As we read in its text, it can be invoked...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-31-senat-55-1.u375	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, sir, but I have to interrupt... [[Yes?]] ...because the declaration must not concern matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. [[But the continuation is completely different.]] But so far, you've... [[No, no, it was just about Israel's reaction...]] But regarding this bill. You could have spoken in the discussion. The declaration may not last more than 5 minutes. The content of the statement may be matters relating to the implementation of the mandate... [[Good.]] ...and it must not concern matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. Therefore, please make this statement at the next sitting. Excuse me. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to finish it because the continuation is neutral...]] No, Mr. Senator, I'm interrupting... [[Okay, if that's what you think...]] I'm interrupting... [[...I won't argue with you.]] ...I'm very sorry... [[I understand that the content of this statement is not acceptable to you. This is the first such an accident in history I've ever known. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The statements must be in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure. This statement is not in agreement, so that you can prepare it for the next meeting. There are no more statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 01 minutes 56]]
