ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Peter Luke Babiarz and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. High Seym! High Izbo! It is my great honor to welcome Mr Viktoras Prancecketis, along with the delegation, tonight at our meeting of the President of Seimasu of the Republic of Lithuania. Welcome. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] I would also like to warmly welcome the Senate Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Senate Vice-Marshals and the senators. I welcome the Ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania His Excellency Šarūnas Adomavičius. [[Applause]] Hello, everyone. I ask the President of Seimasu of the Republic of Lithuania, Mr Viktoras Pranceckitis, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u2	Dear Marshal, Dear Members and Senators, Your Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning. I cordially welcome all representatives of the Polish people. [[Applause]] Thank you for the opportunity to raise today in the Polish Parliament as part of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the rebirth of the Republic of Lithuania the most important issues for our countries. It is a great honor for me to be here today and to perform in front of such a dignified body. For the last time, the President of Seimasu of the Republic of Lithuania spoke here 21 years ago. I thank Marshal Kuchciński that during his visit to Vilnius in 2017 he participated in the celebrations and was one of the patrons of the honorary celebration commemorating the 630th anniversary of Lithuania's baptism - opening of the exhibition of Wojciech Gerson's painting. Lithuania in the Vilnius palace of rulers. The current year is special for Lithuanians and Poles. We celebrate the 100th anniversary of our countries' regaining independence. Next year we will celebrate another significant anniversary: the 450th anniversary of the conclusion of the Lublin Union. It is therefore an excellent opportunity to reflect on the trail that our nations have overcome, on our common history and on what we have in common, uniting, on what are the most important challenges of today and the future facing the citizens of Lithuania and Poland, what we politicians should do to ensure that our societies have a sense of security and that our economies develop. I am convinced that it is this jubilee year for our countries that we will make good use of the opportunities of Lithuanian-Polish parliamentary cooperation and encourage the bilateral parliamentary assembly to act. I would like to note that the history of our nations has alternated and divided, but at all times more in history has been common and contradictory. Even from the Union in Blood, a difficult process of bringing the two countries together began. After the baptism in 1387. Lithuania has become a Christian country and at the same time an important part of Western Christian civilization, thus choosing its direction for the future. Neither Lithuanians nor Poles need to be explained what the battle at Grunwald was in 1410, what its significance was for Lithuania and Poland and for Europe as a whole, what the achievements of the king of Poland Jagiello and the great Lithuanian prince Witold were. The Lublin Union, concluded in 1569, established a new country, the Republic of both Nations, which is assessed ambiguously in Lithuania, but forms an integral part of the history of Lithuanian statehood. I would like to note the importance of the Four Year Sejm of the Republic of the United Nations in the preparation of the necessary reforms in the state and the new constitution. The Constitution adopted on 3 May 1791, together with the Mutual Engagement of the two Nations, adopted on 20 October of that year, was an expression of respect by the Republic of both Nations for personal freedom and national independence. This first constitution adopted in Europe gives us an excellent opportunity to reflect on the importance and importance of constitutional principles. During the trip from Lithuania to the capital city of Poland, Warsaw, it travels through Warsaw Prague, where at the beginning of November 1794 during the uprising of the Republic of Poland of both Nations against Russia about 8 thousand. soldiers of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania together with Polish soldiers and townspeople of Warsaw stood up for Warsaw against the Russian army. Most of the troops of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the defenders of Warsaw died in the battle. This battle is often called the slaughter of Prague. It was the last fight with the army of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. It seems to me that during the 2019 event. The 225th anniversary of the Uprising under the leadership of Tadeusz Kościuszko would be advisable to commemorate the soldiers of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania who, defending Warsaw, sacrificed their lives. [[Applause]] The disappearance from the map of Europe of the Republic of Poland of both Nations torn apart during the ravaged partitions by Russia, Prussia and Austria in the 18th century teaches us today that we should be strong and ready alone or together with our allies to oppose the aggression of external anti-democratic forces. We remember the November Uprising and the January Uprising - the joint effort of our nations in the fight for freedom. Common ideals and slogans for your and our freedom constantly remind us that freedom is not given once and for all. It should be protected and nurtured as it is. was made by Lithuanian Joan of Arc, or Emilia Plater. On 16 February 1918, after more than 100 years of captivity, we returned to a family of free European nations. 20 members of Tariba, the Lithuanian State Council, signed the act of independence of Lithuania in Vilnius. It is worth noting that one of the signatories to the act of independence of Lithuania of 16 February 1918 was Stanisław Narutowicz, whose younger brother, Gabriel Narutowicz, became the first president of the Republic of Poland. The roads of Lithuania and Poland disappeared in the interwar period due to Vilnius, but both our countries and nations were independent, building their own future, creating their economic progress. As a result of the criminal Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact of 23 August 1939, Lithuania, Poland and other countries in the region were divided and their citizens lost their freedom. Polish soldiers were interned, who then did not return from Katyn, and their fate was cynically managed by dictators in Berlin and Moscow. World War II brought in the incalculable pain and suffering of people of different nationalities, and after that we were separated from the democratic Western world by the Stalin Iron Curtain. Western European countries celebrated the victory over Nazism, while in Lithuania, as in Poland, there was still a resistance movement called the war after the war, in which in Lithuania more than 20,000. The forest brothers who participated in the underground resistance gave their lives for our freedom today. Called by the Soviet system the enemies of the nation thousands were deported to the infinity of Siberia. Some of them managed to return to their bloody occupied homeland, but many of them remained for eternal rest in places of deportation. Hello their memory! Often Lithuanians shared the fate of the exile with the companions of misery - Poles. It would make sense if the Lithuanian action of Misija Sibiras commemorating these people, carried out for 16 years, would become common so that the Lithuanian and Polish youth would visit these places and organize forgotten graves of exiles from Poland and Lithuania. [[Applause]] But slavery is not eternal, but the call of freedom is eternal. The Polish Solidarity and later the Lithuanian Sąj?dis helped people to unite and free themselves from the oppression of communism. The spiritual act of the Pope is also unforgettable and difficult to appreciate. John Paul II. Since the first days of his pontificate, he has often repeated "Do not be afraid. " Our nations heard this, so they were strong because of their faith in freedom. We also came to pay a great price for announcing the rebirth, independence of the Lithuanian state on 11 March 1990. On 13 January 1991, 14 heroes died from Soviet tanks and bullets in Vilnius, while more than 700 were injured. January's events in Lithuania accelerated the fall of the Soviet Union, which the American President Ronald Reagan rightly called the empire of evil. Tanks of the Evil Empire have left us 1 September 1993 I would like to thank our colleagues from Poland, who were with us in Vilnius during all these events and helped our representatives in other countries to provide support to the world community for the international recognition of Lithuania's regaining independence. The Treaty between Poland and the Republic of Lithuania on friendly relations and good neighbourly cooperation signed on 26 April 1994 provides the basis for cooperation between our countries. We sincerely mourned the loss of a good friend of Lithuania's Polish President Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] His death in the plane crash in Smolensk also hurt our hearts. I am very pleased that the President of Poland, our strategic partner, Mr Andrzej Duda, participated in the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the rebirth of Lithuanian independence on 16 February in Vilnius. We also look forward to the visit of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in Vilnius. This is a source of inspiration for our further cooperation. I already know that one of the marshals will also visit us during our celebrations on March 11th. Ladies and gentlemen! The project of unification of Europe is unique, and its behaviour is our common responsibility. We understand that the power of individual countries varies, but the teams of European and Euro-Atlantic structures, such as the European Union and NATO, have given us the opportunity to sit at one table and participate in the decision-making process on an equal footing for the first time in history. Nothing about us without us. We are an excellent example of successful systemic transformation for those countries that have a future with the European Union, especially Ukraine. The Tripartite Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian Parliamentary Assembly also plays an important role in supporting Ukraine's efforts to get closer to the European Union. Membership in the European Union is seen not only as the economic and material prosperity of our countries and citizens, but also as belonging to the community of countries combined by common values. [[Applause]] This is the foundation of the unity and solidarity of the European Union. The world is constantly changing and the European Union, our joint project, is also looking for answers to a long list of challenges and threats. Illegal migration and refugee flows, debate on the future model of the European Union, which has accelerated the UK's appearance from the European Union, populism and euroscepticism, financial stability and economic growth, climate change, hybrid threats linked to propaganda, disinformation and cyber attacks by third countries - these are the biggest challenges and threats for the European Union, Lithuania and Poland. Our key objective is to strengthen the unity of the European Union, effective and responsible action on the external relations of the European Union and the Eastern Partnership, in particular with countries with a view to membership of the European Union. We hope that the negotiations on brexite will be successful and we will maintain a strategically important partnership and guarantee the rights of our citizens in the United Kingdom. There is also a need for sufficient financial resources to overcome the challenges. We will have important decisions on the new financial perspective of the European Union. In the new Multiannual Financial Framework, particular attention should be paid to the long-term strategic commitments contained in the Treaties of the European Union, while recognising the added value of the European Union's cohesion policy for internal security and citizens' well-being. Further attention should be paid to the internal market of the European Union and to strengthening the internal energy market by ensuring a level playing field with third countries and the security of energy supply in the European Union and in neighbouring countries. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of history, when Lithuania lost its independence, Poland lost it, and vice versa. Poland and I are in one wheelchair in terms of security and geopolitical terms. [[Applause]] We are also grateful to Poland for actively supporting our efforts to join NATO. Lithuania is a trustworthy member of NATO. In 2018 we have already allocated more than 2% GDP for defence purposes. The annexation of Crimea by Russia and the military and political destabilization in Donbasa in eastern Ukraine and the support of separatists radically changed the security situation in Central and Eastern Europe. NATO is a transatlantic political-military alliance, which is why US political attention and the presence of US soldiers and other allies in Poland and the Baltic countries are important factors to ensure effective deterrent from potential aggression, defending and strengthening NATO forces throughout the eastern flank. [[Applause]] It is clear that NATO is the main guarantee of security. At the same time, we should try to avoid unnecessary duplication of NATO and the European Union's activities. The EU declaration of cooperation between NATO and the European Union adopted at the NATO Summit in Warsaw should be fully implemented. Active bilateral cooperation with Poland takes place in all formats of military forces through military exercises, participation in international operations and purchase of weapons for armed forces. Today, in the fields of defence and security, old and constantly new common formats of military cooperation are being developed. One of the most successful trialogue projects is LITPOLUKRBRIG, named after the military commander of Konstanty Ostrogski. As part of this brigade, the troops from Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine work together. I welcome the fact that Poland is the most active country in the field of airspace control in the Baltic States. Poland has already delegated representatives of its Air Force to NATO-based airspace defence mission seven times. Our countries should engage actively and exchange experiences to eliminate emerging hybrid threats by increasing the resilience of our societies to hostile propaganda and preparedness to respond to cyber attacks. Energy is a sector where cooperation between our countries is particularly dynamic in recent years. Together with Poland, Latvia and Estonia, we are implementing a number of important projects in the field of energy infrastructure. At the end of 2015 the power bridge LitPol Link connecting Elk and Olita began functioning. This is the first energy connection between Lithuania and the West in history. The implementation of the project to synchronise the energy systems of the Baltic States will integrate the Baltic States with the European energy system. The construction of a pipeline between Poland and Lithuania, GIPL, will be of great importance for the energy security of our countries as well as for the development of the gas market in the region. We hope that this project will be implemented, as foreseen, by 2021. We welcome Poland's position on the Ostrowiec nuclear power plant at the border of Belarus with Lithuania. Several major incidents occurred at the time of construction, indicating that the object could potentially pose a threat to the entire region. Lithuania requests that all international safety requirements be complied with during the construction of this power plant. In the autumn of last year, the Lithuanian Parliament adopted a law securing the measures necessary to ensure that the electricity market in Lithuania does not enter the electricity market from third countries, coming from dangerous nuclear power plants. We hope that Poland will not import electricity from a dangerous nuclear power plant in Ostrowiec in the future. In order to deepen the integration of our countries and regions with the European Union, we need to actively invest in infrastructure projects, so I hope that our governments will do their utmost to ensure that regional infrastructure projects such as Via Baltica, Via Carpatia and Rail Baltica are implemented as soon as possible. [[Applause]] We also see opportunities to develop the potential for cooperation between the countries of the Tri-marine in order to improve the development of transport and energy infrastructure for the countries of the Baltic Sea, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea regions. Poland is one of Lithuania's most important trading partners, as well as one of the most reliable investors. We are pleased to note that more and more Lithuanian companies are successful on the Polish market and are constantly developing. We particularly appreciate the presence of Polish companies on the Lithuanian market and their contribution to our economic development. I am convinced that through mutual friendly cooperation, there is a wide range of opportunities for seeking lasting solutions. Lithuania's coherent economic policy in recent years has created a favourable business environment and an attractive climate for investment in Lithuania. Although we are a small country, we can be proud of the rapid development of laser science, information technology, engineering development, as well as the competitiveness of global companies, as well as specialists, close cooperation between companies and scientific cooperation. Lithuania has become a rapidly developing and competitive country with new and advanced technologies. We offer attractive conditions for investment and wide opportunities for cooperation. Dear Members and Senators! Poles in Lithuania and Lithuanians in Poland are a value that cannot be overestimated in our societies. [[Applause]] Lithuania has long traditions as a multinational country, cultivating tolerance and coexistence between different nations, nationalities and religions. Our goal is to make people of any nationality in Lithuania feel good, being representatives of their nation and loyal citizens of their country. I would like to note that Lithuania is the only country in the world, of course in addition to Poland itself, in which education is provided for people of Polish origin in Polish language from kindergarten to higher education. The branch of the University of Bialystok in Vilnius, which has been operating for 10 years, is an integral part of the Lithuanian educational system. Lectures for students are held here in Polish. It is the only Polish university with its branch abroad and teaching students in Polish. At three Lithuanian universities it is possible to study Polish. In Lithuania there are 50 kindergartens and preschool groups and 76 general schools in which Polish is the language of teaching. The network of state schools financed by the State is impressive in Lithuania. Good knowledge of the official language of the country is important both in Poland and Lithuania. Polish young people in Lithuania know Lithuanian well, while Lithuanians in Poland speak Polish well. This is a great achievement of our educational systems. It is also important that the Poles in Lithuania are politically and socially active members of our society. Currently, around 70 organizations, Polish national communities, are active in Lithuania. The scope of their activities is very wide: songs and dance bands, choirs, associations and clubs, university of the third century. Media are also active in Polish. I've been on the air a lot myself. Representatives of the Polish nationalities in Lithuania have excellent political representation capabilities. In the Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania the interests of the Polish national community are represented by the Polish Election Action in Lithuania - The Union of Christian Families with 8 mandates from the total number 141. One representative of Polish nationality is a Member of the European Parliament. I kindly ask Polish parliamentarians to constructively resolve issues raised by the Lithuanian community concerning Lithuanian education, financing of textbooks and other issues. On the occasion of the celebration of the 100th anniversary of independence of both our countries, many cultural events were planned. Yesterday a solemn concert of the Lithuanian National Philharmonic orchestra took place in Poland. Lithuanian cinema and theatre, various exhibitions and other events are also planned in Poland. I would like to invite Poles to visit multicultural Lithuania, where we always wait for guests from Poland and understand them well. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank once again the Marshal of the Polish Sejm, Mr Mark Kuchciński and all of you, for allowing me to speak at the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] And the water's over. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Looking back, we also see the future. Today we open a new card in the history of Lithuania and Poland. I would also like to cordially greet you all on the occasion of the forthcoming 100th anniversary of the revival of Poland's independence. I am convinced that our countries and nations, Lithuanians and Poles, will continue to actively interact and cooperate and, if necessary, we will be ready to defend our freedom and independence together. [[Applause]] Long live Poland and Lithuania, free, democratic and independent countries of the European family! Thank you. [[The gathered get up, long-lasting applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u3	Thank you, Mr Seimasu Lithuanian. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 10.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 44 hours 10 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - immediately after the end of the votes, ca. 11.30, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 11.30, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the S-12 expressway - immediately after the end of the votes, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u5	Thank you, sir. High Seym! The formal proposal was submitted by Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, February 28th, Poland received sad news. At 41 years old, Mr. Daniel Kozdęba, President of Mielce, died. He was Vice-President of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland. He was also a graduate and then a PhD student at the Rzeszow University of Technology. He also studied at the University of Warsaw. Member of the committee at the National Council for European Integration, appointed by Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, assistant and advisor to Minister Krystyna Łybacka, former Vice President of the Management Board of Rzeszów Regional Development Agency. He was a councilman of the Mielec district twice and then elected President of Mielec. He received the title of Mielczanian of the Year 2015. As you can see, he has achieved so much in such a short period of time, so I would ask that we celebrate him in a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u7	Thank you. We would like to return to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and Treasury about the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Powers of Workers. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2247-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present this additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Energy and Treasury Commission at its meeting yesterday gave a positive opinion on the only amendment to this draft law and proposes that it be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u9	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, it's 2247. We will be voting first on the amendment that the Member was talking about. In this amendment to the article. 14 The Commercialisation Act and certain powers of employees of the applicant propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 3. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 255 voted against - 157, 5 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2247, along with the amendment adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 248 against - 174, with 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and the Act on Commercialisation and Certain Rights of Workers. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The additional report of the committee is in print No 2265-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance discussed 22 amendments tabled during the second reading of this draft law. Two amendments were rejected, the committee recommends that 20 amendments be accepted. The Commission also recommends adopting the entire draft Print Act No 2265. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u11	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's printing 2265. We will vote first on the amendments that the Member has spoken about. In the first amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 1. The Commission, I remind you, calls for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 430 against - 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) 2 applicants propose a new wording of point 10. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 427 against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to delete point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Ms Genowefa Tokarska, PSL - UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns the deletion from the draft record, which says that the general inspector may be a person who exhibits an impeccable moral, civic and patriotic attitude. I have a question for the government who, when and on what he will do objectively, I stress: an objective assessment of the characteristics which I am quoting here. I would like to point out that other records of this project say that only the Secretary or Undersecretary of State may be the inspector. There are seven other requirements for this function, among others. the requirement to exercise full public rights, it may not be a convicted person, it must be persons who are to obtain a security clearance with a fully classified clause. After all, here we multiply the same, because in the statement it must already be examined, found. Therefore, I would like to appeal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and ask: let's not multiply red tape.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u14	This point is really not objective, and it's our overzealousness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u15	Thank you, Member. Minister Leszek Skiba, Deputy Minister of Finance, will answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is patriotism. It seems that this record already works in the Central Bureau of Corruption Act, it is used. I feel like there won't be any problems about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u17	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 171 voted against - 235, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose a new wording of point 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 16 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 434, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 34 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 430 voted in favour, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 40 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 7th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - 1 and 3 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 432, against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 9th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 433, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted against, no-one voted The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 46 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 10th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 405, against - 1 and 27 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 11th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 431, against - no one, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 72. 1 point 2 applicants propose a new wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 12th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 428 voted in favour, no one voted against, three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 72 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 13th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 427, against no one, and three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 89 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 428, against - 2 and abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 90a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 402, against - 29, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 110 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 398, against 28, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. Paragraph 113. 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 17th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 430, against - 1 and abstained 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 119 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 20, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 152 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 19th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 400, against no one, with 31 Members holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 163a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 20th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 432, against no one, and three Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 163b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment concerns banking law and regulates the suspension or blocking of a transaction where there is a legitimate suspicion of a criminal offence, but this only applies to banking law. There's no such thing as skok-i. Question: "Why?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u19	Yeah, that's right. [[Laundry.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 21st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 374 against - 55, 4 abstentions. [[What do you mean? This is money laundering.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 195 applicants propose, inter alia, that the law enter into force six months after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the amendment concerns the extension of the date of entry into force of the Law from 3 months to 6 months from the date of publication. I just want to point out that the project is very extensive at all, it requires a lot of organisational changes, including the adaptation of IT systems. And very, very many institutions, so-called. the institutions required, reported this, requested that this deadline be amended several times, also at the last meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. I therefore request that this period be extended to six months. And the simple question is: Why do the rulers not want to meet these expectations? After all, we should all care about preparing this important law well, because the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act is really important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u21	I have a dilemma as to how to understand the word "manager." The ruling Sejm - the Sejm makes decisions, the Sejm controls the Council of Ministers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal is joking.]] [[A voice from the courtroom: Really, Mr. Marshal?]] But Minister Leszek Skiba will respond to you on behalf of the rulers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law has been long-established mainly for this reason, in order to clarify the provisions as best as possible, to ensure that the provisions of the law at government level are properly consulted. For this reason, the industry, financial institutions, entrepreneurs in general are prepared to implement this law. Three months seems like enough time, and as I understand it, the High House has made such a decision, which, of course, the government supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u23	Thank you. In that case, we may proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 22nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 195 voted against - 231, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Questions to the entire draft law are submitted by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another act, just like before - that's how much it takes to change this law, that's 200/300 pages. Do you know how much room the directive takes, which is implemented by means of this law? [[Two pages.]] That's about it. Something's not right. Every time we implement EU law, we implement some ideas that have nothing to do with EU law. We produce the law only so that there is something to read. Everyone already knows that right now, in order to read what we are adopting here, each of us would have to read only four hours a day throughout the year. I'm not saying understanding. [[Applause]] We have a problem, and now maybe there's an opportunity to pay attention to it. Let's start making a law that makes sense. During the club appearance, I gave an example of one record. The record, the essence of which really was that the board was to count not less than two people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He had half a page. Please, let us reflect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u25	Thank you, sir. Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Or is it not? Why? Come on.]] Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2265, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 424 voted against - 4, 10 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Civil Records and the Law on Civil Status Acts. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2272-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Home Affairs and Administration at its meeting yesterday considered two amendments, tabled by the Civic Platform club, and recommended that both amendments be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u27	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's printing number 2272. The amendments tabled by the committee will be voted first. Amendments were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Law on Civil Status Acts. In the first amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 5a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the pretext of allowing the baby's birth to be declared via the Internet through the back door, you introduce regulations, which are the next step to surveillance Poles and looking at private information about Poles. You do this in an express way, without any consultation, you do not mention a word in the impact assessment of the regulation on this project. Now the data in the civil status register will be able to reach not only people who are e.g. spouses, but also services supervised by the PiS. Why do they need access to citizens' data to such a large extent? There is sensitive information, not only about a name, but also about the cessation or annulment of marriage or separation. Why would the police need that kind of information? I would just like to remind the ombudsman on this point, who said this: Forstalled solutions hit the rights of individuals and may be contrary to the Constitution, especially the principle of autonomy [[♪ The bell ♪]] information to citizens and the right to respect for private and family life. Please accept this amendment, which will allow you to keep the project prepared by the Ministry of Digitalization in its original state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u29	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Four Members abstained from voting 194 against - 237. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 45. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 161 votes against - 264, with five abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, is reporting before the whole.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know why you have such a rule, that if you can prepare some reasonably reasonable bill once in a while, you'll always work so hard that the opposition can't vote for it. That's the case in this case. Quite a sensible bill, which would be easy to accept, but something was bothering you to make a sound in it. And what's the effect? You are introducing the possibility that the services will be able to download all information online from the civil status offices. The question is, why would you want to do that if there were rules that made it clear that you could do it, but in a way that is under any control? You guys want to hook up online. Not much, but you did it in such a way as to suggest that even the chairman of the committee didn't know exactly what it was like to be able to download information online, not once. You're making up your mind as much as you can. There's no consent to greater public surveillance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u31	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u32	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question: Since it will be the Minister responsible for computerization who will give the services one-off permission to access the data about citizens, please tell me, Minister, whether this will involve permission to check the data of every citizen, whether it will be a one-time consent to access everything that is, i.e. someone. CBA will sit in front of the computer and check all the data that is possible. That's the key. If this happens, it will be just another step to keep the public under surveillance. That's why we don't agree to those records. We are in favour of making it possible to register the birth of a child on the Internet, because this is the answer to the challenges of the 21st century, but we cannot accept the introduction of rules by the back door that aim to monitor citizens and collect key data about them that should not be so easily accessible to the services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u33	Thank you. Minister Karol Okoński, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Digital Affairs, will address your comments. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that this law does not change the competence of the services, we are only introducing a new way of accessing data, which allows for a more efficient, faster and more efficient collection of these data, and above all allows us to account for these activities later. This one-off consent is primarily related to making sure that the IT system, which at the moment operates in the service, meets the requirements that are needed to collect data safely. There are internal procedures in each service that make it impossible to obtain this data in any way, but precisely in a way that is described in internal procedures. This bill does not affect or alter this in any way. Thanks to the fact that this is on the way to teletransmission, let's remember that we are also getting full accountability from those who are asking for what data in the system of state registers that stores birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates. There's full accountability, so we have full information about who was looking at the data. This is a much safer solution than what is currently in place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u35	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2272, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. There were 287 votes against and 141 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Civil Records, the Act amending the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing Public Tasks and some other laws and the Law on Civil Status Acts. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 2277-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u36	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! After numerous meetings of the subcommittees on financial institutions and the meetings of the Committee on Public Finance, today we adopt the EU directive MiFID II, which together with its annexes has around 1300 pages. Two amendments were tabled, one was positive and the other was negative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u37	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 2277. We will vote on the amendments first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments art. 110ca and Article. 110 cb. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 401 against - 26, with 4 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 3 and 4 in the Act on Investment Funds and Alternative Investment Fund Management Art. 32b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns alternative investment funds. At this point I wanted to ask Prime Minister Beata Szydło whether this alternative investment fund is the scandalous bonuses that the Prime Minister granted, among others. $65,000 to yourself. zł. Are there outrageous bonuses...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u39	Mr President, your question does not concern the second amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u40	...which Mr Błaszczak admitted to himself, in the amount of 80,000. zł...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u41	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u42	Mr. Marshal, I have a request to increase these bonuses so that Prime Minister Gowin... [[The marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, the move in the courtroom, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u43	Mr President, you are not speaking on the subject, and I am therefore warning you in the Article. 175. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 241, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the whole question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u44	High Izbo! Exactly the same thing, I won't repeat myself. I just want to appeal to what I just said. Once again, we are introducing EU law through another strange law. Who among you has read this bill? [[Me!]] Yes, I admit Mrs. Skowronska read it. Is there anyone else? [[Voice from the room: I read.]] Mr. Chairman, too. Three people in this room have read this bill. [[Applause]] I'm sure the Minister didn't read it either. Thank you very much. [[Did you read it?]] [[No, he's just showing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u45	Thank you, sir. [[Did you read the marshal?]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2277, together with one amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 429, against - 6 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of e-recipes. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2315. There are questions. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The e-prescription bill is a step in the right direction. Computerisation in the health system will simplify very complicated bureaucratic procedures. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister spoke about the fact that the pilot programme, which currently concerns two cities, Skierniewice and Siedlec, has a chance to be extended to include other cities in other regions of Poland. In this connection, I have a question: What criteria will the Ministry follow by granting the possibility of piloting in other cities? Otherwise, it's a question of: What do cities have to do to get into this piloting? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-03-01-sejm-59-3.u47	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2315, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 434, against - 2, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in connection with the introduction of an e-prescription. I'm ordering a 10-minute break, and I'm calling the Convention and the Sejm Bureau in a dark living room right now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 59 hours 11 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. High Seym! High Izbo! I will present the communication, after the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Sejm Bureau decided that we would introduce the next day of the Sejm's meeting: Tuesday next week from 3 p.m. 12. Therefore, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to announce at the moment the adjournment by Tuesday at noon. 12 and, of course, moving all the points that were to take place after the votes and the votes that were to take place on Tuesday from 10 a.m. 12. This concludes the agenda items on 1 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of your fellow Members are interested, please. There are Members' statements. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: And with a formal motion, can you still, Marshal?]] In this case, there is no formal application, the Marshal makes a decision. [[Voice from the room: The rules have changed.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz: But tell the seniors not to drive from Gdansk, Łódź to...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] No one volunteered for the Members' statements. That's where we ended our statements. I'm ordering an adjournment... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I volunteer, Marshal.]] ...until 6 March 2018 at 3 p.m. 12. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 11 min 11]]
