ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u1	- to change the feed bill. The reports shall be printed 3005, 3012, 3003 and 3004 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee submitted a report on the application of the Head of the Zachodniopomorskie Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to the Sejm's consent to criminal liability and to the application of a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this report. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, print no. 3013. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal, can we speak on this matter?]] On this issue - I remind you - we have no debate or questioning, but if there are formal proposals, I will allow them. Time - 1 minute. Mr Richard Petru... [[Voice from the room: Now!]] [[Voice from the room: Later.]] ...about Now! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? [[It's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the agenda be amended and a photo taken from the agenda of the Banking Guarantee Fund item, Print Law No 3000. It is in this law that there is an amendment by a group of Members that goes too far with the EU directive, namely...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u3	Mr President, this point has been removed so that this proposal is without object. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Not now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u4	Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u5	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for a break, as well as for the convening of the Senior Convention on the exclusion of the point concerning the appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child. Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members and Messengers! Media reports and opinions from different backgrounds indicate that a candidate supported by law and justice is a person who should not be an ombudsman. The Ombudsman's duty is to care for the interests of all children, regardless of their origin, the colour of the skin. We find very disturbing information about the words spoken by the candidate, which are offensive to people of other nations, even racist. It is also unacceptable that the Ombudsman, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A person who's supposed to stand by the rights of a child who's supposed to be sensitive to their problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u7	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u8	... Asks for more punishment and... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Thank you very much, Member. There you go, Mr Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u10	Can I finish my statement because I wanted to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u11	Madam, I am so sorry, ma'am. Here you go, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club. Thank you, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm bringing it in on the basis of an article. Paragraph 184. The meeting shall be adjourned by 1 and 3 p.m. 11. We have such a serious situation. We have a recording on which a corrupt proposal is made: either you pay a huge amount of money, or we introduce Zdzisław's project, we get your bank almost bankrupt and we take it for the gold. Moreover, since March we see that the PiS legislative roller, this project by Zdzisław is implemented step by step. Moreover, today, the Senate is debating a bill in which the Zdzisław project is implemented exactly as to the word. [[Who's Zdzisław? Who's Zdzisław?]] The committee of inquiry we are proposing must be set up. Poles need to calm down, calm down the atmosphere around KNF and the National Bank of Poland. Poles need to know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I'm sure no one's gonna take over the gold bank where they keep their money.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u13	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u14	It's a committee of inquiry, an explanation to the bottom, even to the bottom... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u15	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question on the agenda, but there is a request for a break. Mr President, this proposal is... Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1 184 talks about it in general. [[Yes, point 1.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3: Formal applications include requests for... oh, and here are 12 examples. But okay. I understand we're going to vote on the request for a recess. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Maybe I'll start by paraphrasing the quote from Deputy Prime Minister Glinski: Well, for God's sake! Mr. Marshal, how can we put the Law on the Supreme Court on the agenda today, since the bill we're supposed to be debating in one and a half hours is not even on the list of projects introduced by Members? [[Applause]] How can we seriously debate the most important court in the country without knowing the project? Let me remind you that this is the seventh. amendment of the Supreme Court Act this year. Seven projects tabled by Members of Law and Justice. You promised that every other one would correct the situation and make it worse. We hope that this situation is probably finally improving. But you cannot vote on extending the agenda to a project that is not known to Members... [[Print number 3013.]] ...and in one and a half hours to debate a project on this key issue in relations with the European Union, not knowing what is in this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I am asking for a recess, a change of agenda for this matter and the introduction of this item, but in the afternoon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u17	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I'll get right on it. Everything is done in accordance with the rules of procedure, sir. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha! As always.]] Let me explain, let me remind you of the article in the Rules of Procedure. But Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, is making a formal application. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it must be stressed that this law is unnecessary, i.e. there is no need for any minor changes to the rules. You are to respect the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This provision shall apply directly. [[Applause]] What the Polish justice system really needs today is to restore the full independence of the Supreme Court. We need to reverse all the changes made to the Supreme Court by the PiS. We need changes concerning, for example, the Disciplinary Chamber, which is nothing more than just a political whip that you've turned into judges. The Supreme Court needs to withdraw the President's authority to decide on the number of judges in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court also needs to restore the independence of the Chamber of Control and Public Affairs, where at this moment there are simply judges elected by the PiS nominates in the National Court Register. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, justice needs you to respect EU law, the Polish constitution and the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u19	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting. [[Mr. Marshal, it's an important matter of state.]] I am very sorry, sir, but we are now voting. There are several formal applications. First of all, I will refer to the point of dispute to which the objection was raised. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings of the Bureau of the Sejm and the Convention of Seniors, it was proposed to supplement the agenda, to introduce on the agenda a point on printing No. 3013, i.e. to amend the Law on the Supreme Court, on the basis of Article. 51 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which states that the Sejm may, in particularly justified cases, shorten the proceedings with draft laws and resolutions by accession to first reading as soon as the Members have received the drafts. And that's what happened. At the moment, there has been an objection to this proposal and we will have to resolve this objection. On the other hand, there is a formal request by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień to interrupt the sitting, to convene the Convention of Seniors on the Ombudsman of Children's Rights. These are two separate cases. At the moment, I will put to the vote the request for a break which has been tabled by Mrs Urbaniak. In fact, this proposal consumes all the others. This is a request for a break of up to an hour. 11. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break in the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 370 Members voted. 159 votes against - 209 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the light of the formal proposal by Mrs Stępień, I am announcing a three-minute break and I ask the Senior Convention to the dark living room. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 38 hrs. 10 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that the Convention has gathered and discussed the request made by Mrs Elizabeth Stępień to vote at today's Sejm on the election of the Ombudsman for the rights of the child. We agreed to wait for the committee's report, for the opinions of both committees. Then we'll make decisions. If this opinion gives rise to any doubts, I will call upon the Senior Convention to discuss the matter. We proceed with the vote on the draft law on the Supreme Court. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Supreme Court Act, print no. 3013, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 377 Members voted. 204 voted against - 141, 32 abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the inclusion on the agenda of the item: Report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court in the event of its submission. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of putting the item on the agenda: Report from the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 381 Members voted. The vote was 210, against 152, with 19 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the agenda items, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider information on the export mode programme at the current meeting - to support the internationalisation of the activities of Polish companies, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. Mr Robert Majka withdrew his application, right? Good. [[Voice from the room: Mr Robert Majka: No, no.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u20	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 10, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 13, after the votes, - Parliamentary Women's Group - at 10 p.m. 14, - the Joint Parliamentary Group on solving the problems of the residents of the district-dominant Poland and the Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organization in 2018 celebrations of the 100th anniversary of Polish Independence Recovery - hour. 17. President of the Parliamentary Group on diabetes Mrs Lydia Gądek and vice-president of Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska's team invite for a free blood sugar test from hours. 9 to 9 a.m. 17 in room 44, building C-D, next to the column room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u21	Thank you very much. A formal proposal shall be made by Mr Robert Majka, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The case concerning the Supreme Court, in my opinion, is a priority in matters of the Polish State. One thing must be taken into account here, namely, as regards the Supreme Court, is the criminal charges brought by Mr Richard Jach against the first President of the Supreme Court, President of the Court of State. I would like to say here that also the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, wrote to me as a member of the Court of State, that as of today... as of 13 September 2018, the position of the first President of the Supreme Court is not filled. The President of Prof. Małgorzata Gersdorf is referred to as the first President of the Supreme Court and therefore violates the criminal law, Art. 227 Penal Code. And I ask the Minister of Justice to respond to this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal, for giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. I would like to explain to you that, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 2 Formal applications may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. Applications are referred to in paragraph. 3. I would ask you to read this because I take your statement as a form of statement. Ladies and gentlemen! I kindly inform and inform you that our deliberations today are being heard by the United States Ambassador Her Excellency, Mrs. Georgette Mosbacher. [[Applause]] Welcome to the honored guest. Welcome. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the act on tax on goods and services (print No 2995). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, the government is making a great deal of effort to ensure that priority tasks are carried out in the field of family-friendly policies and support for families, on the other hand to ensure adequate budgetary revenue. In this context, we want to make it clear that we want VAT rates to return to levels before 2011. However, it must be borne in mind that VAT is the primary source of budgetary revenue, and at this point in time, acting rationally, responsibly and without limiting socially justified expenditure, we need to maintain the existing level of VAT rates, which is the purpose of the proposed project. Therefore, in the proposed project we propose to maintain [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the current level of VAT rates and their dependence on the state of public finances, specifically linking the maintenance of rates to the current expenditure rule. As a result, the project is expected to maintain the current rate level, i.e. 8 and 23% , and, as a rule, automatic reduction of these rates by 1 percentage point after the end of the period of consolidation of public finances, i.e. when we achieve, clearly indicated in the project, the indicators on the relationship between the net sovereign debt to gross domestic product and the gross domestic product of the sum of deviations from the medium-term budgetary objective of the public finance sector. The direct link between VAT rates and the budgetary rule in force will ensure that their reduction will not only be neutral for the deficit and debt, but will also allow the government's spending priorities to be fully implemented. We assume in this project that the Minister of Finance, by means of a notice, will provide information on the reduction of rates and this notice will be published by 31 October of the year preceding the year in which the lower rates of tax will apply at the latest. This will enable taxpayers to prepare for change, e.g. adaptation of registration and accounting systems. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly ask the High House to refer the proposed proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the draft act on the tax on goods and services, which was presented by the government in print No 2995. The government bill on which we are debating is intended to temporarily maintain the current VAT rates and, which is very important, to introduce a new mechanism allowing for a return to reduced rates before 1 January 2011. The current VAT rates were increased by the previous PO-PSL government on 1 January 2011 by 1 percentage point up to 23%, 8% and 7% in the case of a flat-rate refund for flat-rate farmers and 4% a lump sum for taxable persons providing taxi services and was to apply until 1 January 2019. The project submitted maintains the above. VAT rates at the current level after 2 January 2019 but at the same time gives the possibility to automatically reduce them by 1 percentage point depending on... in coordination with the state of the economy and public finances to the level before 1 January 2011, i.e. 22%, 7%, 6,5% and 7%. The fiscal policy instrument proposed in the draft is an attempt to seek a rational solution as a consequence of continuous choices between the need to increase budgetary revenues and the concern to reduce the fiscal burden on citizens. It was therefore assumed that the state's finances were measured by some indicators which would result in a reduction in VAT rates being achieved by the economy. These are the net government debt-to-GDP ratio, which must not exceed 43% , and the sum of the annual differences between the value of the nominal result-to-GDP ratio and the level of the annual average budgetary objective. This indicator must be less than -6%. If these indicators reach these levels in a specific calendar year, the reduction in VAT will automatically take place on 1 January of the year following the calendar year in which the above was achieved. levels. The Act obliges the Minister of Finance to publish, by means of a notice, information on the termination of the increased rates and the return to the pre-2011 rates referred to, and this is to be done by 31 October of the year preceding the year in which those rates will be reduced by 1 percentage point at the latest. So, for example. If these indicators are reached in 2020, the Minister of Finance's announcement of reduced rates must be made no later than 31 October 2021 and the reduced rates will already apply from 1 January 2022. As the analysis shows, the achievement of these indicators 43% and %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% It's pretty real. The other amendments to the draft law are more specific. In this connection, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted, as I mentioned at the outset, as an attempt to reconcile the state's public finances and the financing of various social, family and economic tasks by the State. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u27	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister asked me to say that this increase - as it must be said, the increase - of VAT has to do with the government's pro-family policy. Does this mean that the higher VAT of Polish families will not pay that this tax will not affect Polish families? It can be estimated that this is about 8 billion PLN, so 8 billion PLN less in the pockets of Polish families, in the pockets of Polish taxpayers. How much does this have to do with family policy? Let me remind you what you, some of you, said when this tax was introduced, this higher VAT was introduced. The current Minister Kowalczyk said: the VAT payer, as everyone knows, is ultimately the consumer, and this poorest social group allocates the most of its income to consumption. So how does that apply to what you're doing today? We believe that it is not a good way to repair the revenue of the state budget reaching into consumers' pockets, it will affect the poorest - again Mr Henryk Kowalczyk. Mrs Rafalska, today's Minister for Family and Politics, yes, social: VAT increases are hitting the poorest families in material terms. And that's what you do. Those are your words, and you're the ones who hit the poorest families with that raise. The PiS electoral programme, the PiS electoral programme with which you went to the parliamentary elections: the obvious mistake of the PO-PSL coalition was to believe that raising VAT rates would result in additional revenue to the budget. In order to ensure an increase in budgetary revenue, it is necessary to return to lower VAT rates. You've been coming back for three years and somehow you can't come back. But why do you say on every occasion that you're doing your election program? You don't realize it, you can see it in this example. You are also proud of the fact that somehow you have sealed the tax system in Poland, the VAT system, that you have the superstitiousness of VAT. So if you have a good cheatability, if this VAT is So much, then why raise VAT and why reach into the pockets of Poles, into the pockets of taxpayers? And it is already curiosity of the statement from the justification of this draft law: the project refers to the correlation of tax rates with the state of public finances, i.e. the overall condition of the economy. So what's the overall state of the economy, what's the overall state of finances if you have to raise taxes? For Poles - 1% higher VAT, 8 billion out of pocket, and 1% for PiS nominates Only 40 million in his pocket. That's the reality of your family policy. Or maybe with this collection VAT is not as good as you say, as you boast, because according to the data of PwC summer 2016-2017 this is a record VAT gap, over 90 billion, 2018 - if we look at the dynamics of VAT revenues and examine it compared to consumption, it will turn out that this VAT gap is increasing during your governments. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, much more to be said about excise duty, about how the dynamics of fuel sales are growing, and how the dynamics of excise revenue are, as well as the inefficient way you deal with it. In our view, if it is as good as you say it is, if there is such a super-stability of VAT, if the VAT receipts are so high, then, for God's sake, why do you want to raise VAT and why do you want to reach into the taxpayers' pockets? What you once puked on us during our term of office, as we ruled: higher VAT on children's clothes. Did you lower him? It's been three years. Where's the cut? Where is this VAT reduction? On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2011, the PO-PSL government amended the VAT Act by raising rates from 7% to 8% and from 22% to 23% for the next 2 years. In 2013, he again increased VAT, this time for the next 3 years. In practice, the increase in VAT for Poles meant an increase in prices of products and services - in other words, the increase in VAT rates meant an increase in living costs for all Poles. Due to the nature of VAT, this increase most hit the poorest. Law and Justice raised the issue of return to rates 7% and 22% , promising in the election campaign to withdraw the VAT increase introduced by the government of Donald Tusk. Unfortunately, contrary to his promises by the PiS in 2016, his own law increased VAT for the next 2 years and that shameful law expires on 31 December 2018, i.e. a month from now. Today we are in such a situation that if we do nothing, from 1 January 2019 VAT rates will return to their normal levels, i.e. 22% and 7%. We believe that, in the current budgetary situation, there is no justification for the temporary increase in VAT for 2 years, which has already been in force for 8 years, to be further extended. Therefore, as Kukiz,15 we apply for the rejection of the government law at first reading - please record this. We cannot allow tax increases to continue. Do you think if people have more money left in their wallet, they're gonna bury it? Or maybe they're gonna get some soda in their heads, and yet, God forbid, they're gonna spend on better food, education, car, or maybe an apartment? You can't let that happen, because you know better than that what we all need. That's what total power thinks. Once again, you show that you are very comfortable with the Platform shoes - they are not too big, not too small, just the same. Your bill can keep the tax rates up forever. The authors themselves found that due to this shameful project they would not return to normal, or lower levels for the next 10 years. For Poles, the proposed change will represent a measurable increase in taxes. Polish entrepreneurs will also lose their change due to the negative impact on domestic consumption. Romania has decided in recent years to reduce VAT rates. The reduction in food VAT rates in Romania has contributed to a fall in food prices by 11% and increase their sales by 17%. As a result, this reduction contributed to an increase in VAT revenue rather than a decrease in it due to the elimination of the grey zone. A similar effect can be blocked by this disgraceful Law of the PiS. We therefore expect that the return to the standard VAT rate will not reduce budgetary revenue due to the elimination of the grey economy and the increased activity of consumers operating under lower VAT conditions. Let us remind you of the effect of the increase in taxes by the PO-PSL government. In the first year there was an increase in VAT revenues, but in the following years there was stagnation and even a decrease in revenue, which means that despite the relatively good economic situation of the money did not increase at all. There could be two effects: on the one hand, the higher tax did not encourage hardworking Poles to buy more, and on the other hand it encouraged the VAT mafia to steal even more money from the budget. For the mob, it was a great gift. Thanks to your bill on the VAT mafia carousels, they made 5% of their money. more for fraud on goods taxed at a 23 per cent VAT rate and 14% more with fraud on goods taxed at an 8% VAT rate, i.e. theft was rewarded with additional millions and even billions of zlotys. I wonder if they're even sending you a name card. This state has lasted for 8 years, and now Law and Justice again wants it to continue, this time forever. There isn't, and we won't allow it. If you want to raise something, raise your moral standards by limiting nepotism or scandals in financial institutions. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The truth is that thanks to these elevated VAT rates Poles lost billions, and gained only stealing. Annually, this temporary tax increase costs the average family about 1 000. zł. Remember, everyone pays VAT. If a child is 8 years old and buys a lollipop, he pays VAT. If we buy a car, a house, clothes, we pay VAT. If you've bought an apartment from a developer for 300,000 in the last eight years. zł, you took credit, you paid 8% VAT instead of 7 which is the normal rate. You lost $3,000 because of the PO-PSL and PiS laws. zł. If the apartment or house cost 500,000. zł, you lost 5,000. zł. In our view, in the current budgetary situation, there is no justification for maintaining a temporary increase in VAT for 2 years, which has already been in force for the eighth year being further extended. Therefore, as a Kukiz,15, we offer a standard tax reduction and a return to normal rates. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz has the floor, who will speak after the floor has been lowered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u32	Miss Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PiS representatives have been trying for several minutes to convince us that another tax increase is a kindness to society. They're trying to convince us that this isn't a law at all about raising VAT rates, it's about establishing a certain correlation between debt and GDP. I have a message for all my fellow countrymen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS from 1 January 2019 raises VAT rates to 23 and 8% 'Cause if it wasn't for this bill, those rates would actually be 22 and 7. Therefore, after the introduction of thirty-six additional taxes and danins over the last three years, an additional burden in the form of an increased VAT rate is introduced. And don't cheat that this is done to preserve the sustainability of public finances. You feed us propaganda, which has no basis for reality, but the situation of public finances is excellent, the downloadability of VAT phenomenal. You've got it all, and for a good cause, you've got it all on your Misiewicz. You're short on money, so you're bombing taxpayers' money. Once again you reach into the pockets of Polish entrepreneurs and Polish citizens to catch on. It's just a PiS password: get as many as you can for four years. And that's what's going on with you. Therefore, there is no consent for Poles to pay increased VAT rates. The reasons for this bill are psychic. When I read that it wouldn't affect the micro-entrepreneurs, that's it. It's just a scam. You guys used to just cheating and lying. How can you tell a guy who's in business or a woman who runs a micro enterprise that's not a vat man that raising the VAT rate wouldn't affect the cost of their production? That's cheating, isn't it? [[Game in the O.R.]] Madam, you just understand the economy... How can you tell a micro-entrepreneur who is not a vato that raising the VAT rate is a blessing to him? [[Are we raising the VAT rate?]] You're raising the VAT rate because from January 1st it would be 22 and 7%. It's very simple - very simple. And it would be good to understand. That's why you're cheating. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] I would also like to mention here the words that were recalled by the Kukiz Club representative - that from the start of the election campaign you said that you would reduce VAT rates. In the exposé, the Prime Minister said that you would lower the VAT rate. So? You're picking them up. You're just common crooks because you're cheating society. [[You manipulate words.]] We do not agree to this, so we ask that this proposal to introduce an additional tax for Poles be rejected at first reading. The rest of the time will be used by Mr Truskolas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u33	Here you go, Mr Truskolaska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS in the election campaign promised that VAT rates would return to the old level, i.e. 22% and 7%. Unfortunately, today is 21 November 2018, VAT rates are still 23% and 8% and it is expected that the same VAT rates will also apply next year. You've already raised your taxes about 34 times. I will list some of them: bank tax, insurance tax, commercial tax, recycling tax, water levy, excise duty on cigarettes, excise duty on used cars, electricity charge, issue fee. The 2014 PiS programme stated this: The increase in VAT rates had the opposite effect. The revenue started to fall dramatically, which forced the revision of the state budget for 2013. In order to ensure an increase in budgetary revenue, it is necessary to return to lower VAT rates. This was the case in the 2014 PiS programme before the parliamentary elections. Why not reduce these VAT rates? Why don't you go back to 22% of your VAT rates? and 7% ? After all, the economic situation is excellent. That's what the Prime Minister said. That's what the President of the National Bank of Poland said. Why don't you go back to 22%? and 7% ? As modern, we apply to reject this project at first reading and restore the rates to 22% and 7% . Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska gave her position in writing. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm losing my temper.]] The Member resigns. Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor. [[Those are questions? I signed up first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few days ago, Minister Tchórzewski promised that he would compensate the public for the increase, giving something. The government doesn't have any money, so to give it to someone, they have to take it away. In this case, if you are looking at this bill, you can see that the government wants to take something from all Poles. Promising to compensate for the rise in energy prices, he assures us that this is not what our wallets will feel. The government will give us something by taking it from us in VAT. To say it's hypocrisy isn't enough. Therefore, I have a question to the government: Is the compensation announced by Mr Tchórzewski for the two-digit increases in energy prices intended to finance itself with a real VAT increase which will be introduced from 1 January 2019? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that our debate is being listened to, at the invitation of Mr Kubiak, a group of young people from the Second High School in Bełchatów, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u38	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have the pleasure here, and that's what one of the messengers said she had the pleasure of... What pleasure is it to raise taxes for Poles by PLN 40 billion over the next four years? What pleasure is it to draw 40 billion PLN from Poles' pockets? It is about 8 or 10 billion PLN each year. What's the pleasure? This is the normal looting of Poles. All the young people who sit at the gallery: PLN 10 billion each year will be drawn from the pockets of Poles. And the other thing, Minister. This requires a very precise response: How much higher will inflation be due to the rise in energy prices? We're not talking about compensation for each of us as recipients, we're talking about the economy, we're talking about producing bread, butter, we're talking about how much self-government will lose. Thus, with regard to this bill drawn, as it used to be, with regard to the fact that the state does not draw anything out of the pockets of Poles: you pull out two to three times more than the predecessors. Now you have to admit it. Now we have to say that it is a pleasure for you to draw money out of the pockets of Poles. Why are you doing this? And why are you in such a hurry? For the tax to be introduced... This could be another matter with VAT. We have a deadline. Why are you doing this now? Why didn't you say before the local government campaign that lighting would cost the local government more? Why didn't you tell the Poles before the local elections that you were gonna get out of their pockets? Each year, PLN 8 and 10 billion? 'Cause then it'd be a bust. Finally people would understand that you want to draw money out of the pockets of Poles. We're against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u39	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the draft amendment under consideration. According to the data of the Ministry of Finance, what are the values on which the return of primary VAT rates depends? How much did they amount to at the end of 2015 and, above all, when, according to current forecasts, will they reach the required level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Next year, VAT payers, companies and individuals were to pay this tax less than PLN 7 billion, but they would pay. In the case of an average 4-person household, this means that it will not spare, in quotes, 300 PLN. This 300 PLN could be sufficient in part for expected increases in electricity prices. It's inevitable. And now you, as the PiS, as a government, are basically putting up a white flag, telling Poles unambiguously: forget that we are capable of reducing taxes. You're not structurally capable of this. At the peak of the economics, the Polish state behaves like a company that has a deficit, which operates with losses. This is ridiculous. At the peak of the economy, we are in debt and you can't see that your rule can work. At the moment, the ratio that we are talking about, namely net government debt to gross domestic product, exceeds 50% And you want to go down to 43. It's a chasm. You say yourself in this project: we don't know when this can happen. So I would like to ask when, according to the Ministry of Finance, this wonderful moment in Poland can occur, when real VAT will return to 22% and to 8%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, because we are getting disturbing information, especially to the medical and veterinary community, that the Ministry of Finance is working on raising VAT on medicines, but only veterinary medicines, from 8% to 23%, whether it is true and whether you are working on it or whether you have a project developed. I would like to warn you that when it comes to veterinary medicines, it will primarily translate into food prices of animal origin and, in a situation of this good economic situation, the balance of sales of food products, which this year, I will remind you, only 8 billion additional in trade, will certainly reduce competitiveness. And not only competitiveness, but also the costs of all producers, especially as regards food of animal origin, and here we are mainly the main exporter of poultrymeat, whose price will certainly be much, much higher and competitiveness will change. My question is, are you working on this and are you predicting an increase in VAT rates from 8% to 23% in terms of veterinary medicines? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Excuse the question, but can somebody pinch me? This is the platform that raised VAT... [[In the crisis, not in the peak.]] ...now criticizes the increase in VAT. In a crisis, yeah, you're still in a crisis. [[Voice from the room: In crisis.]] Okay, thank you. My friend pinched me. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, but please don't interrupt me. The situation is that Law and Justice, when they came to power, promised that they would not raise taxes, that they were a party of low taxes. So I ask the question: How many times since the beginning of the term of office - this is a question to representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I think that this information is available to you - in the last 3 years, taxes have been raised in Poland? I ask for a specific answer, how many times and how much more money you're pulling out of citizens' pockets. That's the second question. The third question: Are you aware that this does not work on such a principle that the higher taxes will be, the higher the revenue to the budget? And the fourth question: Are you aware that if citizens who work hard and earn money, they would have this money in their pocket a little more, they would not eat them, they would not burn in the oven like Pablo Escobar in the film, but they would spend it on the articles they needed and their families, from which you will continue to collect taxes? So if there are lower taxes, then cash flow will increase, then economic turnover will increase, more money will be traded, and you will still take yours, only then citizens will be able to afford more. However, you want citizens not to be able to afford more so that you can addict them and give them other charities. There's no permission to do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u48	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Recently, the PiS government has often stressed the excellent condition of the Polish economy. It points out that in 2017 the revenue of the public finance sector from the tax on goods and services increased by more than 30 billion compared to the previous year. Although the Polish economy is still in an economic growth phase, GDP increased by 4.6 percentage points in 2017 and by 5.7 percentage points in three quarters of 2018, all indications are that VAT rates will not be reduced. During the 2015 election campaign, the PiS repeatedly declared a reduction in the rate of tax on goods and services once it came to power. Today, after actions, not words, we see that it was typical of this party of lies. The PiS indicated in this programme that in order to ensure an increase in budget revenue, it was necessary to return to lower VAT rates. And that could happen. 1 January 2019 we were able to return to VAT rates: 22% , as well as 7%. This is not the case, however, because there is this bill - a bill that will actually raise the rates of tax on goods and services, a tax that applies to all Poles and Poles, each of us. Each of us pays this tax because we buy food every day or we buy apartments. These are the lower rates. These higher rates apply, of course, to other goods, as well as services that concern every Pole: citizen and citizen. Therefore, my question is this: Minister, why did you promise and today you are lying? Why did you say it was so good? If it's so good, why raise taxes? This isn't the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. I can't see. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can say this: The PiS already acts as a criminal, because it is already the second law raising VAT, because you voted the first one. Therefore, you are really consistent in pulling money out of the pockets of Poles. The sad thing is that everyone will actually pay for it, and the least-earned people will be hit the most, because a penny of it is spent on first-needed items, so they will pay the most. And it is sad that you treat Poles this way. You're talking about how the situation is so great, and yet this is the second time you've raised VAT. I would ask the Minister here because it would really be worth seeing on paper what your fiscal policy in Poland looks like. I would ask you, Minister, to answer in writing and write down all the taxes you have raised in the last three years, all the tributes. Such a reading will certainly be useful not only to the Members of the Law and Justice, but also to all citizens so that they can see how wonderfully you manage the state and how you are simply cheating. So it seems that defending Poles against the Law and Justice is absolutely justified, because you will already pluck us to the bone with your fiscal policy. And I have a very big request for you to stop saying it's so good... [[Because it's okay.]] ...that you have such great achievements in collecting VAT, in collecting taxes, because it just has nothing to do with what you're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is kind of a weird situation, because by watching the news or reading information on various types of government-friendly portals, we can find out that there will be some tax reduction, success, that bread will be a little cheaper. In fact, you can do this, you can manipulate facts, and there is one thing that practically doesn't matter to the budget, because almost zero, you're going to conquer to the value of the VAT reduction, and it's just the harmonisation of the matrix, which will only come into force in 2020. By the way, you're not gonna hear a raise coming in a month. And already at this point, knowing that you must, you want to do it because you have such desires, at the end of November you are warming up information about the fact that VAT will be reduced and that Poles will get more money. This is what the media is talking about and covering up today's law, this information, which is the most important, because this is the amount of PLN 10 billion that the Poles will lose. And if we're talking about this matrix, there's 100 million zlotys left in the wallets, and it's probably not until next year if nothing changes. Basic question: Why is Law and Justice afraid of the truth and moving towards media manipulation, and simply not going straight: yes, we are increasing, we are unable, we are weak, we must raise tax, there is no money for what we promised? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u54	Due to these crocodile tears, which the opposition sheds over the fate of Poles, because we allegedly raise VAT, I wanted to ask: Does the bill raise VAT rates or does it maintain the VAT rates that our predecessors introduced in 2011? That's the first question. Second question: How does the Minister assess when the relevant level of these indicators adopted by the Act is a condition for reducing VAT rates? [[Never.]] What are they now? So that we can really assess when we can really expect this VAT reduction. Second thing. The level of life of Poles does not determine, Mr, the level of taxes, only the level of disposable income, so income earned, obtained minus all charges, minus taxes. In this sense, taxes They contribute to this, too, but not just taxes. I have a question for you, Minister. Please show us how Poles' disposable income has changed in recent years. I ask for an example, have they increased or have they not changed, or have they fallen? Because this is a measure of the standard of life and standard of life of Poles. And Mr Meysztowicz, you with your aggression, well-known for your seym speeches, judge us here, accuse us of some fraud, redecisive, etc. Count your words, because I'm not doing anything. I didn't say that in my speech what you called here, literally calling it cheating. Count your words. I'd like you to adjust your statements and take your hands out of your pocket when you're on the seymoral platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you could say, they promised, they cheated, not for the first time. However, the VAT reduction is an absolute symbol of the fall... [[A discount, that's great.]] ...and the lies of this government. We can see what you wrote in the 2015 election program. We read the PiS programme: To ensure an increase in budget revenue, you need to return to lower VAT rates. Another thing, the PiS Party Convention, July 2015, Beata Szydło said, waving her hands: We will reduce VAT to 22%, to 7%. Today is the third year of PiS rule, there is no reduction, there is not even a swallow of hope that something will change. But we have new data, ladies and gentlemen. The CSO will inform you of this. Do you know what the most frequently paid pension was this March? 1065 PLN gross, 906 PLN per hand. $320,000. The Poles and Poles received a pension of this amount. Communication on the fact that the PiS government does not want to reduce VAT, this is also a communication addressed to these people, to the 320 000. Poles and Poles who receive a pension of this amount. For them... [[After eight years of your reign.]] ...the issue of VAT is a fundamental issue, that is the issue that will affect their disposable budgets, their home budgets. 95% pension benefits are used for food, for housing fees, 10% He's staying for other things. Today higher VAT and [[♪ The bell ♪]] higher electricity prices will eat the whole part of their pension benefit. Shame, scandal. They cheated, and they promised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u57	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I have this basic question: Is it worth discussing changes in tax rates at all, since in the legal system there are VAT invoices such as: corporate advice, service: in defence of the Tax Office in Cieszyn - 110 thousand. zł, and the proceedings were discontinued by the tax office for 6 million PLN? Allegedly, this tax can't be levied because there's no real estate. The prosecution that initiated the investigation has been silent for eight months. The trader shall reply to the complaint that a disciplinary hearing has been held. So 6 million PLN went down, and the D.A.'s office said, "Nothing happened, there was a disciplinary conversation. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is expensive and until we pay the taxes due, the lower ones, this will result in attempts to raise them. We must reduce the cost of the state's activities through fair tax collection, not through the agreements that have been, are and will be. And that's a clue case. Thank you. I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of how it is possible that such invoices and such obligations are being resolved. This is the IRS in Cieszyn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We all know that 1% tax is real money, which every day you buy, when you use all the goods and services you extract from the pockets of Poles. That's 1%. VAT is 50 zł from the purchased computer value 5000 zł, this 1% That's 500 zlotys from a car bought for 50,000 zlotys, that 1%. This is 5000 from the apartment purchased for PLN 500,000. You have to count it anyway. For 3 years you have been saying that you are giving something to Poles, and in fact every day you are draining citizens' wallets through this type of indirect and direct additional burdens, which have been implemented in Polish law by the Government of Law and Justice. An example: you gave this year - that is what the PiS government says, that Poles got this - an expedition of 300 PLN. Through this 1% VAT Poles financed this expedition themselves. Every family that spends a month on their basic maintenance, for their needs, on electricity, water, gas, clothes, food, 2500 zlotys, brought 300 zlotys of additional VAT to the state's cash register and financed this expedition itself. Stop lying to your citizens about whatever you're giving them because everything you say you're giving them, you're taking money out of their other pocket. An example is the higher VAT rates that burden citizens every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u61	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. I will address these questions that I can address, those that have been asked rationally and not rhetorically. First of all, I would like to comment on the question asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska and somebody else from your country concerning what are the real chances of achieving those indicators that we have foreseen in the Act and if the disposable income of Poles has actually increased in the recent period. As far as this indicator of real income of Poles is concerned, we have calculated quickly now, but I can provide accurate data in writing if you wish that in 2017 this disposable income increased by 15%. compared to 2015. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: What about pensioners?]] This is the disposable income of Poles according to the CSO. When it comes to pensioners, we can count it exactly and then we'll answer. However, I would like to stress that what we are doing is pursuing a rational economic and financial policy. Of course, we're sealing the tax system and there's a higher income from the fact that we're sealing the tax system. We also implement aid programmes, social programmes on the same scale that no government in Poland, even for communes, has implemented so far-reaching, fair social programmes. Honest ones are the ones that give actual income to people who need it. This government gave us a 500+ program, medications for seniors. These are big, big transfers. We have objective data. In 2018, the rate of risk of poverty or social exclusion - that is EU and GUS data - fell to 19.5% , which was 21.9% in 2017. In 2015, it was 23.4%. So he's fallen from 23.4% since 2015. to a level of 19,5% presently. This is the indicator that, on average, has fallen most in the European Union during this period. That's the indicator. the risk of poverty and social exclusion. In this year's review of the Polish economy, the OECD noted that the benefits under the The spending of the 500+ programme in 2018 alone is PLN 24.5 billion. As for indicators - when will it be possible to lower the rate? For 2017, these indicators that we are introducing, which we want to introduce into the VAT Act, are, as far as debt is concerned, the relation of the state's net public debt... I'm paying attention here because one of you in the discussion said he was 50%. Sorry, that was Mr Richard Wilczyński from the PO. That's not the debt. This debt we're talking about here is a net public debt. It amounts to 2017. 47.7% Whereas the second indicator, i.e. gross domestic product to gross domestic product, amounts to 6,28% of deviations from the result of the public finance sector for 2017. We estimate that in 2018 this debt ratio - I can say today that this is respect for 2018, so please take this into account - we are planning at 45.9%. So we see that of 47.7%. in 2017, we plan to descend to 45.9%. So it's like these goals that we're setting, these goals that are going to lower the rates, these are goals that are real. I would add that in 2018 it is designed by the International Monetary Fund, i.e. by an institution independent of us, a very low deficit of 0.3%. So that it is not excluded that already in 2019 it may be possible to achieve the indicators we are talking about. I hope that this answer is sufficient in this regard. I understand that as regards the question of how many times taxes have been raised, we will prepare a written reply, as Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz wished. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Minister, about these pensioners.]] That's what I'm gonna have to do in writing, too, because I don't have the data right now. If Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska wishes, I will, of course, prepare it in writing. So what I can say is that what we do is a responsible approach to the sustainability of public finances. We are building countercyclical buffers that result from this responsibility, so we are linking the reduction of rates with the indicators resulting from the rule of expenditure. I would like to stress what I have already said, it is already seen in the statistical results, that the reduction of social inequalities, that is, the buffer that we give poorer people in our society, is much more effective with social transfers, because we direct help where it is needed. So it's not that keeping VAT rates higher by 1% will have an important impact on the poorest families, because these poorest families generally benefit from this more effective aid in the form of more efficient transfers. It's not like we're lowering our bread rates. I'm not ashamed to say that yes, we're lowering bread rates for the poorest. We want these rates to be as low as possible. This will be introduced and we will discuss this. As for the specific question about veterinary medicines, I would say that we really want to discuss such a project and what we are doing right now is opening a discussion about the matrix of VAT rates. [[So there's a project.]] We've published this rate matrix right now. We will discuss this in the form of a public consultation. [[Will it be introduced to the Sejm?]] Public consultation... This isn't something we bring into the Sejm. [[I'm asking if it will be.]] Yes, of course, it will ultimately be subject to normal public consultation in the legislative process, but we want to discuss how these rates are to be shaped. The bet matrix in our assumption will lead to a slight alignment of the bets - down. He's supposed to sort them out, but he's supposed to level them down a little bit. Hence, among others. it's a reduction for all kinds of bread. I think I've explained all the main questions you've asked. Some of them will be answered in writing. If you have any further questions, we will answer them in writing. However, I would like to ask that this discussion be more rational, so that we take into account that we are talking about the state budget, and this is a matter of high responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u63	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I understand that when it comes to Mr Grabowski's question about the number of new taxes and increases for 3 years, we can also count on a written reply, right? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: Yeah, that's a question... It's in writing. [[It's the same thing.]] That is the same question, two Members have asked de facto the same question. Great. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, print No 2995. Despite the economic prosperity of Poland and the world, the draft law retains for 2019 an increase of 1 percentage point in the VAT rate adopted from 1 January 2011 of 23%. and 8% and the rate of flat-rate reimbursement for farmers - 7% and a lump sum for taxpayers providing taxi services - 4%. The project envisages a return to reduced rates under conditions of compliance with certain economic indicators. According to these indicators, the reduction in VAT rates will take place in the financial year in which the adjustment mechanism stabilising the expenditure rule will be excluded. The correction of VAT rates will take place when the value of the government's net debt to gross domestic product is not greater than 43% and the sum of the annual differences between the value of the nominal result relationship to gross domestic product and the level of the medium-term budgetary objective shall not be less than 6%. The intention to keep higher VAT rates for the following year has no justification, is incomprehensible and inappropriate. Given the high household maintenance costs resulting from numerous fees, taxes and high price increases for electricity, the PSL-ED club will not support this project with another tax increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u65	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Print No. 2587). I ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u66	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Well, on behalf of the applicants, the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats, I have the honour to present a draft law on amending the law on taxation on goods and services, i.e. in substance similar in part to the previous point. This is a very short, clear, clear and readable project. Its content is contained on one page. We rarely meet such projects: two articles, one basic, the other implementing the law. We propose that in Annex 3: the list of goods and services taxed at a tax rate of 8% Because it was supposed to be 7%. And it's supposed to be 7%. , returning to the previous discussion, enter entry 188 with the following content. This concerns, I will explain, Annex 3 concerns the application of a reduced rate of VAT, in this case, at present, it is 8% ,the basic rate is 23% , regardless of the PKWiU symbol, for services related to installation of micro-installations of renewable energy sources. What kind of micro-installations are these? These are so-called. Prosumer installations up to 50 kW, in the bill is saved, and this also requires an explanation, 40 kW, but at that time we changed the law and there is a record that the microinstallation is up to 50 kW of installed power. What it is is about explaining to those who listen to us. Reduced VAT rate on renewable energy installations of 8% , it applies to all who do it on residential buildings or in residential buildings. But if this is next to the building, 1 m or 2 m, even though the installation is connected to the measuring device in this building, but there are no conditions to install photovoltaic cells or solar panels on the roof, because this is the construction of the roof and someone wants to put it next to the building, then they have to pay 23% VAT. This is incomprehensible, unclear and illegible. 15% more for the entire installation, which is not cheap, because these are devices which cost several dozen, and sometimes even tens of thousands of PLN. Many citizens, many residents would install this to themselves, because it is good, necessary, comfortable, it is actually even cheap, if we look at it, because there is a rule, there is even such a proverb that what is expensive, it is actually cheaper later. And then the cheap stuff could go to a lot of other things. After all, today we have a huge problem, discussed here just now, with the price of electricity, but in all this we have reason to believe that this is due to the prices of emission allowances. Well, then let's go liquefy that broadcast. Today, when we pass through, whether it's winter or summer, through many towns or even cities, we see smoke chimneys. That's the emissions, the low emissions. There's 47 grand. our citizens who die within a year because of bad air condition. In turn today the law is so vague and so illegible that instead of increasing the amount of energy, free, inexhaustible energy, energy obtained from the sun, from the wind, from the water, we do little in this regard. Recently, we have even done a lot of bad things to reduce the amount of energy produced from renewable sources. By 2020, we're going to have 15%. This energy, and for the past three years, this indicator hasn't even increased by a percentage. We're at 12%. , i.e. Today we have 12% energy from renewable sources. As all sources say, experts, experts, we are no longer able to accomplish this because we are on the eve of practically... So what? There is information that 8 billion will have to be paid for the purchased renewable energy. Others can, we can't. We could do that, so we need to use these incentives. I think it would be clear and legible if in this passage... Of course, it won't cause any boom, but if we show it, if we reduce it by 15%. It's gonna be something. Today, local authorities also have a problem, which have undertaken to implement these umbrella programs in many voivodships. They want to support these actions through regional funding for operational programmes. You're gonna have to pay an extra 15%. More. Not much, VAT is on the user's side in this case. VAT is not on the side of the municipality, local government, it is on the side of the user. All the benefits, because we can put it on the garage, which is sometimes almost an integral part of this building. We can put it next to the building. We're not destroying the roof plating structure. We have the ability to construct it so that this installation actually comes out cheaper, because you don't have to climb the roof, carry out these installations, wires, you don't have to destroy the building, but you can put it next to it. No, 15%. There's more to be paid. I know that the VAT law is a law related to European law, only that we have been saying for 3 years to deal with this issue that this law needs to be agreed with the European Commission. There's nothing wrong with that. I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Finance that this is a problem. It's incomprehensible. There's a need. Nothing has been done in this area so far. In the opinion, the government admits that it is right, it says that it is true, but that we are not able to do it today. We are able to interpret our constitution in the European Union, we are able to stand on our own when it comes to our legal system, but in such an obvious, necessary matter for our country, because it would be helpful for the entire energy system, we are not able to address this issue. We listen to all these conclusions, these comments that come to us. A panel was held in Krynica on the economic forum. Representatives of local governments, as well as companies that are involved in the installation, because they also have a problem with it, paid attention to why it should be 23% rather than 8%. I know that when the VAT Act was created, the VAT Act on goods and services, that was not the problem. Renewable energy was in its residual form, no one paid attention to it. This was assumed to apply only to residential buildings. There may be problems with interpreting it today, but it's obvious and clear. We have a clear goal, we have a right goal and we need it, which is why there should be a change here. As far as this warm water is concerned, some have long discovered this, it is possible to put water on the sun. She'll warm up and we'll have warm water. Some people use it on camping sites. Why can't you do it, can't you support it? Why punish someone for wanting to buy a solarium next to the building? In some ways it is a punishment, because if someone wants to produce renewable energy, whether in heat or in electricity, they still have to pay you additionally 23%. This country should pay for this, because this is an excellent argument for you. I said before: what is expensive is cheap. If we enter with this renewable energy, if we do not have tens, hundreds of billions of zlotys will be added to coal and we will change our thinking, it will also benefit Poles. Maybe in some way we can influence this electricity more expensive, I'm sorry, cheaper. When I present this proposal, I ask the High House and the Government to take this subject seriously. Let me put it this way: it's not maybe a revolutionary matter that would upset the state budget, the budget revenue. This is not - and I am aware of it - a thing that will cause boom to suddenly occur when it comes to renewable energy, but it is a concrete signal to people, citizens. Besides, it's a measurable help, because we pay 15%. less for those installations that we're going to put somewhere, including photovoltaic cells, solar panels for heating hot water, heat pumps, small windmills that are also built somewhere. Because if someone puts a windmill on the roof, they're small windmills, with the power of a few kilows, it's for its installation, and as far as the price of this device is concerned, 8%. But if he puts it next to him because he has a nice garden and he can put it on the side, that's 23%. So it is incomprehensible, illegible. On behalf of all those who are interested, and this is a wide circle, I ask that you continue to proceed with this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u67	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u68	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on tax on goods and services from print No. 2587. The subject of the amendment is the amendment of the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services in determining a reduced rate of tax on services relating to the installation of micro-installations of renewable energy sources and amendments to Annex 3 to that Act. The project provides that the VAT rate for this service will be 8% regardless of where the renewable energy source is installed. At present, the preferential rate applies only to the installation of renewable energy sources in buildings covered by the social housing programme. In other cases, the basic rate is 23%. According to the justification of the proposed law, its purpose is to support the development of renewable energy by the State by subjecting the preferential rate of taxes on goods and assembly services to all installations defined in the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources as prosumer, regardless of the location of the installation. I fully agree with the justification of the submitted project. I consider it necessary to increase the capacity to obtain energy from renewable sources. Further development of renewable energy is an opportunity to create new jobs, develop local entrepreneurship, increase the income of local self-government units and individual farms. The development of green energy will significantly reduce the harmful effects of conventional energy on the environment, mainly by reducing emissions of harmful substances, which will clearly contribute to improving the health of Poles. However, it should be mentioned here that the current government has already taken action to combat smog. It can be mentioned here that the "Clean Air" programme or the recently adopted law introducing income tax exemptions for people who spend on thermomodernisation of residential buildings. However, in the assessment of both the government and the Sejm Analysis Offices, the draft law proposed will lead to an infringement of Union law, since it cannot be ignored that the provisions on value added tax fully fall within the scope of Directive 2006/112/EC of the European Union and Poland as a member of the European Union in respect of VAT is obliged to comply with them. At present, Member States do not have the freedom to create their own solutions on this subject, but must take strict account of the scope of EU regulations. This parliamentary bill is incompatible with the article. Paragraph 98. 2 in conjunction with Annex III of Directive 2006/112/EC, therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice request that the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on tax on goods and services in print No 2587 be rejected in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present our position on the amendment of the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on the tax on goods and services contained in print No. 2587. Let me just remind you that the main objective of the contested law is to support the development of renewable energy directly by the State and to reduce the VAT rate for the execution and installation of any installations which are described as prosumer in the Renewable Energy Act, regardless of where they are installed. Let me just remind you that until today, until then, this reduced rate has only been applied to the installation of renewable energy sources in buildings which are covered by the social housing programme, i.e. in single-family housing and in residential premises whose usable area does not exceed 150 m2 and 300 m2 respectively. In other cases, also in the case of works in residential buildings carried out outside the building, a higher, 23 per cent VAT rate is applied. Further arguments on why this project is important and necessary and why we support it. First argument: this project will directly address the problem of interpretation of the application of different VAT rates depending on the type of housing investment and the location of the installation, which today complicates the everyday life and life of individual investors interested in these investments. Another argument: this project, this solution, will directly reduce the costs of installation of the prosumer installation in installations carried out outside the residential building, and this will thus reduce the time period for the return of such an investment. It is also important to recall all the shortcomings affecting the renewable energy market, i.e. the absence of a specific long-term state policy and its long-term prospects, as well as the absolute instability of law or even legislative incompleteness. It is then that solutions such as those contained in this project have an additional value and may have an impact on the scope of investments in the renewable energy market. One cannot forget today another argument, strong and sounding very, very strongly. This allows this project to take a completely different shape. I'm thinking of the announced energy price increases. Despite the fact that the Minister of Energy enchanted reality and promised that energy prices for individual consumers would not increase and then only provided a symbolic increase of not more than 5% We already know that today, we have information that this is going to be a 30% increase. This is a huge role of such projects, this project, which supports the whole renewable energy system, which is desirable from a social point of view. A small doubt about this proposal is that the VAT rules fall within the scope of European Union law and we are obliged to comply with the provisions of the November 2006 directive on the common system for this tax, but I believe that the joint work in committees, the further examination of this project, will improve the provisions so that this project remains in line with the requirements of the European Union. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes to transfer this project to further work and will support work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're in favour of this bill. A VAT reduction for electric micro-installations is a good idea. It is a real opportunity to diversify energy sources for Poland, greater independence of citizens, freedom as well as cleaner air. Of course, this also indirectly affects military security. That is why Kukiz15 always supports and will support laws reducing the tax burden of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that the fight against smog and the promotion of renewable energy sources should be a priority for the government. There is also no doubt that this is not the case. Despite the Prime Minister's many assurances that the government is starting to fight to improve the air quality that we are breathing, there has been little done so far. Meanwhile, smog directly affects our life and health, and indirectly also on the level of expenditure from the state budget, among others. For our treatment. These are expenditures embedded in the economy, resulting from our incapacity for work, and even from the fact that in agriculture there are lower yields, because smog, which is already scientifically proven, also affects the level of yield obtained on a given area. One form of fight to improve air quality actually is to support prosumer micro-installations of renewable energy sources. This should be a priority for this government. Support for such investments may take two forms: either aid directly directed to such installations or reduced tax rates. Indeed, if we look at the EU VAT directive, we see that some of these installations can be implemented on the basis of a reduced tax rate and some can't. The point is whether the installation is located directly on the building, is so embedded, or is located somewhere next to it. The form of this realization... It seems a little strange to delimit it this way, but this is directly shown in the annex. However, it does not exempt the Polish government from the fact that in the European Union, where it has its delegates, its Commissioners, where ministers directly have the opportunity to talk about new changes and rights, including tax, in Europe, to take this issue. We have taken up the subject of time change, whether it should be, whether this time variation should be further or not, and we have managed to reach some consensus at European level. So I see no reason why the government should not raise the issue of this type of debate at European Union level to change this so that all micro-installations can be carried out under a reduced rate, all the more so as there is a rather broad discussion on VAT changes today, there is likely to be quite far-reaching changes to give Member States the opportunity to be free, to grant a reduced rate, provided that it is not less than 15%. . So this is the moment when such a debate at the level of the European Parliament and of the European Commission can be triggered, even it should be the duty of the Polish Government to have such a debate, especially as we are a country with one of the biggest problems in the European Union in terms of air quality, to bring about. The problem of taxation of micro-installations is extremely important. In fact, these are specific incentives that could make such installations in Poland more, but not the only ones, because, of course, these barriers are also more. I'd like to draw your attention. In addition, the fact that the production and use of energy under the RES micro-installation in the discharge system should be available not only to natural persons or farmers, but also to entrepreneurs, local government units and cooperatives, because often these entities benefit from the highest rates on electricity in tariff C. If this discharge system were to be extended to enterprises, local government units or cooperatives, it seems to us that there would be a drastic development of civic renewable energy. Unfortunately, the government also does not want to decide on this step. This project could be the beginning of a major discussion on changing the approach to renewable energy sources, including micro-installations, including the Sejm, which is why we expect from the club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u76	...he left this project and sent it to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u77	...a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is the second time I have spoken, and I will not repeat these arguments that I have presented as an applicant, but I stress that this is a non-political program, really unpolitical. We do not want politics here, we are fighting for the health of Poles, for energy prices, for all of us to live better and easier. That's why I'm surprised at the PiS club here, because with such a light hand it rejects it, says: we reject this project, we ask for rejection. It would be wise to consider why. Why? He's good, he's needed, he should be, but we reject him. Maybe we should think about what to do, how to do it, because there's no turning back here, we have to go through this renewable energy, 50%. You will need to have it by 2050, these requirements will increase. We are still fighting the European Union that too much renewable energy is making us produce too much clean air? - Makes us eliminate this smog that we don't have enough emission allowances that they're too expensive, etc. I think, Minister, that the European Union would have nothing to do with this, because it is the Union that wants us to use as much renewable energy as possible, to produce as much incentives as possible in this direction. Maybe the Union doesn't even know that this is our problem. So the question is, Has anyone ever turned, or has anybody even taken this up? No, because we have buildings, and apart from buildings, the world doesn't exist anymore. This may have been the case, but today we need to take this subject more seriously, more prudently. Let me tell you more: we should at the moment consider whether in some places some farms, where this problem is so clearly present, do not buy these devices for free so that people do not have to smoke and burn what is possible all summer long, because this is usually the case on these farms. Restrictions are coming up, we're gonna control them, and so on. Before he controls himself, the fire in the furnace will go out. Every day someone needs warm water, and it burns, and you can see that - everyone drives, ministers, presidents - I sometimes see smoke in the city center like tar, that you can't breathe, plastic, everything burns. And here we have ready warm water, only we need to create conditions for people. This is one of the elements only. Of course, it won't make us heal... We, you remember, in that mandate, introduced fixed tariffs so that anyone who produces electricity could sell it at a fixed rate, a fixed tariff, after 65 gr per kWh, to the network. No, because the world's gonna collapse, because they're gonna steal, they're gonna try. Well, you have to actually build this law, because there are measuring devices already so perfect, you can trace it from afar, so that we don't destroy what is simple, clear, transparent. We should use simple methods here, simple and not complicated: a grant, a discount and a discount, and we'll still account for it, whether it's six months from now, or a year from now, or maybe two years from now. And these combinations are always uphill. You can't see these signals, these impulses about support. We're gonna hold auctions: one didn't go out, the other didn't go out, maybe the third one will come out, we don't know when these auctions will take place. And so time is running out, life is running away, people are getting old, people are dying, and we're still figuring out how to pack billions to the left, to the right. If we were to sacrifice the money that runs away from us in different ways for this most important cause... Energy is the most important thing for the economy, for the system, for every person, everyone uses it, it is a common thing. This is important. Let us work on this and I have an appeal on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats: do not reject it directly, because it shows that you are recklessly taking this, and this is a very serious matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u79	Thank you very much. The questions were raised by six ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[I'm asking for a long time. This is a very important topic. One and a half minutes. I'm asking for a long time.]] I'm afraid so. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club. Please, Mr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that applicants are guided by the noble objectives of submitting this draft amendment to the law. However, I have a request for clarification, especially if there is a representative of the Ministry of Energy in the Chamber. Does today's energy mix allow you to significantly increase the number of RES-based installations without prejudice to the energy system? I am referring to the issue of the stability of sources, the lack of which significantly undermines the cost-effectiveness of conventional energy necessary to ensure proper availability of capacity. It is important to take into account the promotion of specific solutions that will not deepen or perhaps even reduce adverse fluctuations due to the relatively high instability of the most popular RES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u82	Thank you very much. This is a very important bill because it gives entrepreneurial citizens the opportunity to reduce their household bills related to electricity charges. They will be able to install micro-installations for lower amounts, e.g. photovoltaic, solar or heat pumps. Today we know that electricity prices will go up dramatically. Today we know that the wholesale price of electricity on the stock exchange is 40% higher. These price increases are gonna ruin the house budgets. We already know that for sure. Therefore, let us give the opportunity, the opportunity of entrepreneurial citizens, to make the initial capital costs of micro-installations of RES much lower, up to 15% lower, so that they can reduce the price of electricity in their own homes. Today we have inconsistent VAT rates for the same micro-installations. Depending on where they are located, these rates vary. It happens that the roof of the house is located e.g. east-west side or is with forgings, or south side are tall trees, and already such owner of the house [[♪ The bell ♪]] cannot benefit from a lower VAT rate. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u83	Thank you, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. [[This is a very important matter.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u84	High Izbo! The more the PiS fights for clean air, in particular by supporting coal energy, the worse the air is, especially in rural areas. It is a fact that we will not fulfil our commitment to a 15% share of renewable energy by 2020. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that we have huge air problems, particularly in rural areas. And now the question is: Is it true that the EU directive limits the possibility of introducing this solution? This is a specific question for the Minister: Is it true? Because you declared that there was nothing impossible. Here I also refer to a representative of the club who referred to: we will not put in place a good solution because the European Commission does not allow it. Well, then you have to get up off your knees, take a conversation and do something that's just possible for people: logical, good solution. We will not solve the problem of air pollution in rural areas if we do not move towards renewable energy, prosumer energy, which is also implemented in neighbouring systems. The proposal to extend this solution not only to individuals, but also to all those who operate in rural areas is absolutely justified. I believe that this project should go to committee, this project should be the subject of profound reflection on how to deal with problems that are evident. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome. [[Thank you, Marshal, for your extra time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're all in favour of working on this bill. It seems that with the threat that we will not meet the 15% requirement As the Member said, by 2020, when it comes to the percentage of renewable energy... These indicators fall very much and the government does everything to ensure that in Poland there is no renewable energy, because what was done with wind energy shows that Poland is going in a completely different direction from the whole world. Abstracting from the fact that these installations can actually make those customers pay lower bills, which is quite important for households if energy prices are threatened, I absolutely agree with the request that we know exactly to what extent this directive can prevent the government from accepting the proposal made by the PSL Members. It seems to be as logical as possible, which is why we are calling for this bill to be dealt with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-governments were obliged to pay VAT on the grant received for the construction of RES installations. It is a situation where the municipality buys installations and then transfers them to residents who also contribute to the investment. A tax, 23 percent VAT, must be paid on the EU grant for the construction of renewable energy installations. The local governments were trapped because they had already signed agreements with the Marshal offices to finance the investment. This involved 160 investments for eligible expenditure in excess of PLN 600 million. In the answer received, because I wrote an interpellation on this matter, the Minister stated that the issue of taxation of activities financed from grants from EU funds is still being examined. I wanted to ask the department's representatives what about these analyses on this [[♪ The bell ♪]] The stage results in...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u89	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u90	...because the problem isn't clear yet... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'm asking for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u91	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club. [[Is this some kind of race, marshal or something? Are we in a marathon or something?]] You have to fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask for the support of the Polish government in implementing its national commitments on renewable energy sources by 2020. According to the GUS data on the share of renewable energy in national energy, we can unfortunately have a problem with meeting the mandatory targets, which together are intended to give the assumed share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption in the European Union. For Poland this target is set at 15% . I would like to ask whether these alarming data, coming from the Central Statistical Office, about the domestic production of green energy are justified. If the Minister is not prepared at the moment, because I understand that the project involved a tax reduction, I ask for this information in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u93	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Filip Świtała has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for this project, for the concern that you are expressing when submitting such a project on air in Poland. This project is part of the programme that we are trying to implement, which is about the introduction of financial instruments, which are intended to help to ensure that the air in Poland is clean. I would also like to thank you for supporting the draft of the thermomodernization relief. This is a relief that is about to induce households, in this case the owners of single-family homes, to introduce thermal insulation of buildings. But this thermomodernization relief also covers expenses that involve renewable energy, i.e. PV installations which can be mounted on the roof will benefit from a reduction. This type of assembly, as regards VAT, will then be subject to the 8% rate. It already exists right now. The project you are submitting concerns the authorisation of the 8% rate for those micro-installations of renewable energy sources which are installed outside the building. Currently, the reduced rate of VAT applies only to the installation of such renewable energy sources - it is now - in buildings covered by the social housing programme. As regards this social housing programme, this is the requirement of Directive 2006/112, which is the current VAT Directive. In Poland this housing program is understood quite widely, because it covers single-family houses with an area of up to 300 m2 and an apartment of up to 150 m2, that is, this program is quite generous, which allows to reduce VAT rates to 8%. To assess the project as such, it should be noted that the doubts you have raised here regarding compliance with Union law, i.e. Directive 2006/112, are justified. As a member of the European Union, Poland is obliged to comply with this Directive. In the current Directive, the application of a reduced rate is possible, but only in certain specific situations, which are listed in Annex III to the VAT Directive. Point 10 of Annex III to that Directive makes it clear that the VAT rate may be reduced to those services which are related to the supply of goods, construction, renovation and conversion of housing within the framework of social policy. Order of the Directive and of the Polish provisions which reduce this rate - where we apply the preferential rate 8% For services related to the supply of goods, construction, renovation, modernization, thermomodernization or reconstruction of construction works - it was the subject of the case law of the Polish Supreme Administrative Court. She was, for example. such a resolution adopted in the composition of seven judges - I can state the signature, i.e. FPS 7/12 - which states that the reduced VAT rate cannot apply to works relating to buildings covered by the social housing programme carried out outside the building. It's gonna be... [[I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you ……]] On the wall it's in the building, which means... Yeah, then it's 8%. The question was whether it was on the wall. The same is true if there is an example. installation on the roof. [[So there's an 8% stake, too?]] Photovoltaic installations. I think it's a thing. quite natural when it comes to photovoltaic installations. In fact, I think they're even designed to be mounted on rooftops. I'm thinking about it myself. I think this is something that is already covered by this 8% rate, in accordance with the Directive, by the directive, with the provisions of the directive reducing the rate on these forms of support for housing programmes. In the manner in which your project was submitted, it is incompatible with the Directive and we cannot accept it for that reason. However, she rightly pointed out I think Mrs Hennig-Kloska that in the EU we should be more flexible in shaping and influencing these rates. And that's what we do. Discussions are currently underway on the project submitted by the European Commission - COM (2018) 20 - which is part of the whole package on the investigation of the definitive system of value added tax. In this process Poland participates, we stand in a position, we present there such a position that in relation to rates we want to be more flexible. So there is the possibility that you mentioned, and we are quite actively taking advantage of this possibility. I would also like to point out that the current Polish government actively supports renewable energy sources through various types of instruments. Maybe I'll talk about those instruments that are tax-related. We've been discussing a thermomodernization relief in this room. This is a deliberate relief, which actually makes it very easy for taxpayers to make a thermomodern investment, including photovoltaic or related investments. with a heat pump, but mounted in the building. It's on one side. On the other hand, the process of paying subsidies related to this thermomodernization relief will soon be launched, which means we are giving people money so that they can carry out thermomodernization investments. Thank you very much for your support for this tax project, which we discussed here two weeks ago. This is a project that aims to make the air in Poland clean. On the other hand, due to the contradiction with EU law of this project that you have submitted, the government is negative, although, as I mentioned, we are doing a lot in this direction, we are not avoiding it and we will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u95	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... Please? [[Mr. Marshal, the applicant.]] Please, Mieczysław Kasprzak, the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u96	I thank the Minister for such a kind approach, but this does not solve the problem, because today we are not relieved of taking action by translating ourselves into a European directive and doing nothing. And this is what I said earlier: I think that today in the Union the overriding problem is air cleanliness and energy system, and this is an overarching directive, which should be subject to others. I am convinced that the problem we are discussing is not raised at the level of the European Commission and it is not known, so my request, Minister, is that if we are currently debating the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services, these negotiations are going on somewhere, let us leave it in the work of the Sejm, while there let us negotiate solutions that would be beneficial for us. Because we can't really be charmed another year, that we're doing everything we can to increase the amount of renewable energy, because it's the other way around, because it's getting smaller. You, Minister, are in charge of the finances, and you must keep an eye on the finances. But if there was an energy man sitting here, with whom I argue very often, and if the Minister looked at these statements, because these are things available to the public, it would turn out that we are blowing money into the air unnecessarily at the moment, because we are paying the penalty for windmills. Because we've come up with a stupid law on windmills, and right now we have to pay businesses and other countries because they're suing us. And why would you do that? What if we were to use it to support renewable energy in a visible way...? To this day, we do not have an energy development programme for 2030, and we are calling for this for the second or third year. What's next with energy? What kind of energy mix is that supposed to be? Because we say energy mix all the time, but what's he supposed to look like? Nobody knows that. We add huge money to coal and this is incalculable, that nobody can calculate, and little of that, from those forecasts that we have by 2030, shows that these subsidies will have to be even greater. The whole world is hitting the alarm, Poles are hitting the alarm, saying, do something, help us, and we can't do it. As far as the renewable energy support system is concerned, it was practically completely unstable because it used to be clear, clear, understandable, and at the moment there were probably five or six amendments to the Renewable Energy Act and it is heard all the time that it is not yet that it will be another and another, but nothing is happening in this regard. Let's make the law simple, transparent, the law for people who can use it for all of us, because it's not just that we're gonna give, like someone said, money to someone to make it cheaper. We're all gonna benefit from this, because if there's smoke in the oven and there's tar smoke, it doesn't just mean someone's in the country. or even in the city it's cheap to heat water, but it's poisoning us all, little children who play next door or in the neighborhood. This is important. You, Minister, are talking about thermomodernization, about how we're going to install it. No, 8% It's been a long time, and it's been on the front wall when it comes to buildings, whether it's on the roof or it's on the front wall. Only, as a colleague said, the Minister also wants to install photovoltaics, because there are individual and social benefits in this regard. Only if a neighbor plants a tall tree - I don't know what it has - or two or three trees and covers this southern side, then it's over, a flop. It would suit you to put it next to the house because there's a nice place, but you have to pay 15%. More. The minister may be able to afford it, but a lot of citizens can't afford it. It's all about that, it's simple logic, it's not very complicated things or looking for some extra money or profits, it's only logical: If it's easier to do it, it's cheaper if it costs less, if you can do it, why pay by 15% More? Somebody answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u97	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court (Print No. 3013). I ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present this project. In fact, the justification for this project is very short. This law is necessary in view of the safeguard provision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Poland is a member of the European Union and that is why we are doing it. That is why I will ask - to this end I will persuade the High House - to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u99	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the proposed bill. I would like to emphasise first of all that we believe that the proposed amendments to the Supreme Court Act are good, that we consider these changes appropriate, that in this case nothing changes, however... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Second thing. I would also like to stress that the Supreme Court Act adopted by the High Chamber was in line with the Constitution and there is no doubt about it. [[Why are you changing?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why the change?]] Let me remind you that in Poland, as far as the Constitution is concerned, there is an article in force. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2: the system and jurisdiction of the courts and proceedings before courts are governed by laws. I'll remind you of the article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1: Judges are free, but subject to constitution and laws. Finally, I will recall the most important article in this context. Point (b) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4, which states that the age at which the judges are moved to rest, also defines the law. High Izbo! However, we are a member of the European Union. [[More, more.]] Poles want Poland to be a member of the European Union. [[Voice from the room: PiS doesn't want to.]] According to various studies, 87% are in favour of this. Poles. In this respect, we are also obliged to comply with the provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this case. [[Where's that appeal the president announced?]] However, on this occasion, I would like to refer to what happened today in the High House, to the statement by one of the Modern Members that a direct safeguard provision should be applied. Well, High Izbo, we don't think that's acceptable, because it would be a waiver of sovereignty, a waiver of the rights granted to the High House. We believe that this cannot be accepted, because it is not about one law, but about creating a dangerous precedent at that time. We believe that this cannot be accepted, because it would apply to the principles of all law-making in Poland, that it would de facto mean breaking constitutional rules, breaking the Constitution, and Law and Justice has always been, is and will be in favour of the Constitution. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] [[That's what the president needs to be told.]] [[Zbigniew Zioba first.]] High Izbo! I would also like to say one more thing on this occasion. What happened during this discussion by the opposition Members is not only a fraud, it is simply a fake news of the opposition, an attempt to set up a public debate in such a way that we should not do it. [[The voice from the room: The witty one.]] Poland and the Government of Law and Justice and the parliamentary majority, on whose behalf I have the honour to speak, are absolutely in favour of Poland's membership in the European Union, as well as respecting EU law, even if we do not agree. I wish, High Izbo, there were some arguments here. As we have repeatedly stressed, as our practice shows, we always respect the law, so we also respect this safeguard provision. High Izbo! Finally, I would like to recall Terry Pratchett's words that a good plan is not where someone wins, but where no one thinks they've lost. [[Every loser says that.]] I am convinced that this is a good plan and that Poland will also benefit from it. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, is in favour of this bill. At the same time, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, pursuant to Article. 51 point 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I request that you join the second reading immediately after the first reading, without referring the draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court to the committee. [[No committee?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u101	Thank you very much. Now Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that in November, in December we have the Law on the Supreme Court, on the Constitutional Court, which is the next stage of your destructive activity. And it must be made clear that either my previous speaker, Mr Schreiber, does not know, either does not understand, or does not want to acknowledge that this project, in the context of the security issued by the Court of Justice of the European Union, is completely unnecessary, because the security is self-informed and effective. Let me remind you that when the Court issued a resolution on the Białowieża Forest, you did not prepare any special law to stop the cut-off, because the security is effective from the moment it was issued and it is in force in Poland. In this project you are really withdrawing from your bad reform, from your deformity, from how you ruined the Supreme Court and the Polish justice system. It was the Court of Justice of the European Union that introduced what you wrote in this project. Those judges have already been brought back to court, and your scouts and statutory swings have nothing to do with this case. Those judges are already adjudicating under the Court of Justice's protective decision. You lost this case fortunately for Poland, fortunately for the Polish justice system. This case is a loser to you, and we all know it. He lost the PiS, but won Poland, Poles and Poles, won the Polish justice system, because dozens of serious and good judges can return to judgment. This is the most important thing to us. If you really want to close this case and honestly tell Poles: yes, we have made a mistake, we are sorry, please withdraw from the emergency control, withdraw from the politicisation of the National Judicial Council, withdraw from the fact that the elections are approved by the National Judicial Council of the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs elected by the National Judicial Board. Go back to making sure that the elections are approved by the judges that we all have confidence in. In this context Today it may be two chambers of the Supreme Court, three chambers of the Supreme Court, let them jointly approve the elections. Then we will consider that you really have good intentions, and not that you simply want to deceive Poles again, you want to deceive the Court of Justice by pretending that you are fulfilling its resolutions. You really want to show that you're going to do something that's already been done, because the Court of Justice has already introduced it. Now there's a lot of understatements in this project, and it's on its knee again. That is why I would like to ask that a debate be held on the committee. It is not possible at a general meeting, without a debate in committee, without the opinion of the legislators, without the opinion of the Supreme Court to proceed with such an important project. This really taunts all principles of decent legislation. You may not remember, but once there was a concept of principles of decent legislation, according to which no 24-hour projects were adopted. You'll be here at about an hour. You're showing the project and you want it today at 10:00. 13 or at 11 p.m. 2.30 p.m. accept. This is an outrageous procedure. On this basis, the Constitutional Tribunal challenged several laws, since it concluded that the principles of decent legislation had not been respected, that the public, the social partners had no time to familiarise themselves with the project. And you guys do it in three hours, actually. This is outrageous. Therefore, I appeal to you to withdraw from this, so that you may at least give the Parliamentary legislators time to read this. If you gave lawyers, legislators, time to get acquainted with these projects, you wouldn't have to introduce today the seventh amendment of the Supreme Court Act. You do it on your knees, at night, you don't know who's with whom and who, and then you have to set up a committee of inquiry, and you have to explain it all to find out who actually wrote it, because of course you're going to smash up and say, "It's not us, it's the House, it's not each of us." You will not admit this, and this mess in Poland will remain after you. Really get out of this and give the Committee of Justice a chance or another so that we can debate this. I therefore call for the draft to be referred to a second reading in the Committee on Justice or another committee which the Bureau will consider appropriate, but it must be read normally. There's really a lot of sloppyness out there that will emerge in later stages. I therefore request that you be referred to the committee to carry out further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u103	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present Kukiz's position15 on the seventh amendment of the Supreme Court Act. [[And not the last.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an amendment. I do not agree with Mr Kierwinski that this should be addressed to the committee, because it should be voted out without reading, because it is nothing. This project is nothing, it should not be introduced at all. And in this situation I agree with Mrs Pihowicz and with Mr Pihowicz. But the Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen, is not justice in Poland. The justice system in Poland is the common courts, the courts of the first instance, and that is where it is wrong. You only focus on the Supreme Court. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like to remind you that, as a parliamentary team, Changes to the Constitution have been carried out research, met with the victims twice, developed and published in the Quartet of the National Judicial Council our project, assumptions regarding the amendment of the law on the system of common courts. In this bill - let me remind you in the points - we talked about the judges of peace, the jury, the transparency of proceedings, recording, starting with the prosecutor's office, ladies and gentlemen, we talked about day by day, the need for psychiatric examination of judges and prosecutors, the profession of judge as the crown of the competition, ladies and gentlemen. We were talking about an emergency complaint. And in this respect I do not agree with the Platform, because in Poland since 2000 there have been so many unfair judgments, that the complaint, which concerns a period of 5 years back, is not a complaint, these are appearances. Ladies and gentlemen, we were talking about simplifying the subsidiary indictment, the exclusion of the court, these laws are now fictional, the costs of court, the real complaint system, which does not exist in Poland. We would be able to talk to you - and we invite all political groups to this conversation - to create a kind of joint committee, involving of course also judges, and lawyers, and NGOs, to return to justice from the beginning, starting from the Krakow judicial school, from the law on the prosecutor's office, about the KRS and everything that followed, because all these laws are sick. And now we're focusing on the Supreme Court, and we're saying that we're going to restore... But I ask myself, "What about the judges who have been nominated, what about the prosecutors who are judges of the disciplinary chambers, what about the jury who have been elected in a compromising manner? What has been done with the election of the jury to the Supreme Court calls for vengeance to heaven. We have compromised the idea of a jury at all, ladies and gentlemen. So I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what was possible... I wonder at all whether this House is capable with such a electoral system to reform the justice system, whether the next Sejm and another Sejm will be able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, he won't be able to, in my opinion, he won't be able. You know why? That's 'cause there's a lot of party options out there. If we do not change the electoral system, if we do not lead to a JOW or mixed system that will change the level of debate in this Chamber, please, it will change for sure... You don't want to accept this. We all vote for the command and then we come in with some stupid laws that aren't necessary for anyone to laugh at, not to take seriously. And we say we have reformed the justice system. What kind of justice reform, I'm asking. Since prosecutors are supposed to be judges, I'm asking. I've been saying that since my first performance. The prosecutor is an institution of hierarchical subjection. He's got a broken back, he's never gonna be independent, and don't believe that he's gonna be independent in the Supreme Court or anywhere else. In Poland, a complaint system is needed. A citizen has nowhere to complain. And we're telling you right now that we're gonna bring the judges back or we're not gonna bring them back. Indeed, in order not to bear the consequences of the case law of the European Court, one can say. But here I agree that there is no need for a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, let's finally sit down, let's talk about the justice system, not about the political market--we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you, we'll give it to you. Right now we have the justice system, law enforcement agencies typically PiS, typically party. And that's what we want to avoid. A few moments ago, I was talking about the VAT invoice for guidance, how to avoid paying VAT, that it's being issued at 110 thousand. for a small company, and nobody's saying it. And here you're talking about VAT rates. What's the point of saying that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the VAT rates? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judges of the Supreme Court, who were removed from there by the current ruling team, returned to judgment under EU law, not by the grace of the PiS politicians. The safeguard provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union apply directly, there is no need for any law to do so, and questioning the application of the judgments of the Court of Justice directly means questioning the presence of Poland, the place of Poland in the European Union. This is the first step to polexit. [[Don't scare me.]] This PiS-owska law is in fact a law which withdraws only from part of the contested provisions which concern judges who have been forced to retire. This is absolutely half-way through, because most of the provisions of the Law on Purgatory in the Supreme Court will continue to apply. This amendment is also a de facto repetition of the acts already carried out by the first President of the Supreme Court by virtue of the Court's ruling. That's why I'm surprised some people treat this bill as an expression of the good will of the PiS. Nothing more wrong. This law confirms the total misunderstanding of EU law by law and justice and the lack of respect for that EU law. In general, this law is simply a prosthesis that removes of course faulty regulations, but does not really change the system flaws that arose after the PiS attack on the independence of the Supreme Court. In addition, although the decision of the Court of Justice was actually issued a month ago, this law is passed at some crazy pace. He's got rules that are internally contradictory. There are no legal opinions or analyses sought, including the opinion of the Supreme Court or the National Judicial Council required by the law. You don't give time for any analysis. This bill is just a legal piece of shit that can't be voted for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u107	Thank you. Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to specific comments on this draft law, I will refer to the statements of the applicant's representative and the representative of Law and Justice. Mr. Speaker! True, the Constitution gives us the right to adopt a law that specifically regulates the functioning of the Supreme Court. But since it is the basic law that contains a delegation, that means no less, no more, only that this law must be in line with the constitution. There's no other way. Since the basic law gives a delegation, it allows for the adoption of a law which is compatible with the basic law, or constitution. As far as the pace of work is concerned, I don't think there has been one yet, and this applies to one of the most important institutions in the state, the Supreme Court. Even if that were not enough, we have just heard a request for debate without a committee of justice, a committee where at least the representatives of the Supreme Court could express their position, because they have the right to do so, because the law concerns the Supreme Court. With this action, the state is actually denying the Sejm the opportunity to debate such a vital law. And now you're introducing e.g. to be recorded in Article. 37 the text that the Supreme Court judge retires from the age of 65. At the same time, in the draft, you are calling for the repeal of the article. § 111 (1) (b). It therefore appears that the Law on the system of universal courts will apply accordingly in relation to the extension of working time. But in this law on the system of common courts there is a provision that a resolution on the decision of the National Council of Courts, chosen so, and not otherwise, is a final resolution. You will also deprive the judges of the right of appeal, at least so far they have had them. Today, with regard to art. 69, that right is deprived of them. Writing rules on my knee is a bad thing, which I've had the chance to find out since the beginning of this parliament's work. Members have signed up for this project and none of them - most of them, perhaps not all - are not there. This shows how you avoid it, even though this project is prepared by the government, a path for a government project that requires consultation and requires an opinion. You're going straight ahead, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in breach of those provisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u109	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you very much. Now Mr Michał Kaminski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would appeal for consequence, because this bill we are considering today is an expression of your consequences. Why? Well, you guys passed the I.P.N. Act, which is a great act that you guys pulled out of. You had a great Prime Minister, who you canceled. You've done a great reform of the justice system that you're retreating from now on. I appeal for consequence. You're a fine group of great government and great parliamentarians. Fall back, just walk away, be consistent. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is, of course, your failure, your failure in confrontation with the European Union, the confrontation of Poland unnecessary, because the place of Poland is in Europe and the future of Poland is in Europe, which many of you unfortunately do not understand. But this is above all the success of civil society. Not even the success of the opposition, but the success of all these people, whom I would like to thank from this tribune, who spared no effort, without saving their time and health, protested in the streets of Polish cities against your pseudo-reform. [[Applause]] I would like to thank you, dear citizens, because it is your success, because as it was once said: everyone has their Westerplatte, and for civil society, for real citizens of the Republic, for us our Westerplatte will always be defending freedom, defending democracy and defending our place in Europe. But, referring to history, what is our Westerplatte is your Stalingrad, is the beginning of the end of this power. And today, the whole argument that accompanies this law is similar to the communications of the commander-in-chief of the German armed forces after Stalingrad. Every time they got the booty, the announcements announced that they were retreating to pre-emptive positions. Today you are trying to convince us that you are retreating into pre-occupational positions, and in fact, when you get out of your knees, you have turned because Europe has shown you the place, has shown you what freedom is, what democracy is and what the rule of law is. But there is no triumphalism in my voice today, because this conflict was not needed, it was not needed in Poland and it was not necessary in Poland. You need it. And today, from this stand, it is worth it on behalf of all those citizens who protested against your evil politics, to ask you: And what was it for? And why did you have this commotion, and why did you have to lower the authority of the Republic of Poland, the Lightest Republic, which was unnecessarily compromised by you, was exposed to humiliation? Because it is wrong if we Poles, if the Polish state Europe must teach freedom and democracy. And yet freedom and democracy, tolerance, freedom are so deeply inscribed in the Polish gene, they are so deeply inscribed in our soul that you have lost not to Europe today, you have lost to the spirit of Poles today, with the spirit of freedom, with the spirit of justice and with the spirit of freedom. [[Applause]] That is why I am convinced, speaking of this historical analogy, of this Stalingrad, who was the beginning of the end of the supposedly invincible army, that today we start marching to freedom. And this march will end when you leave power and your disgraceful reforms will be forgotten, your disgraceful assassination of our freedom and our democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u111	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I continue with the statement by Mr Kaminski, my club friend. You're supposed to be getting off your knees and scrubbing your head on asphalt, but that's your business. But why, having a mouthful of clichés about the policy of dignity, about how hard we will negotiate in the interests of Poland, the Polish Sejm, you treat Polish Members as a country farm, why are you introducing this law in such a scandalous manner, without giving the possibility of discussion, opinion, serious attention to the reversal of these bad changes that you have made in the judiciary? It is you who are responsible for the fact that the Polish Sejm has no authority, and it is you who are responsible for the position of MPs today... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u113	Thank you. Now Richard Petru, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law means that Poland is still in dispute with the European Union. Let me remind you, the Court of Justice has made it clear that the law you have adopted does not apply to the Supreme Court and no amendment is therefore necessary. That means the word "security." Secondly, it's hard not to get the impression that this show is about covering the issue around KNF, the Financial Supervision Committee. This is the biggest financial scandal since 1989. She's probably involved with the NBP president, the head of the Bank Guarantee Fund, and perhaps the Prime Minister. This bill really isn't needed today, but what does it show us? This is your surrender to the European Union. This is surrender before EU law, this is surrender before the truth. I have the impression, and it can be seen with the naked eye that you are disturbed by our Polish membership of the European Union, because if we weren't in the community, if we weren't in the community, you could change the law about judges just like that every day. You could remove awkward judges, you could cut out the cans and make money. And you need the Union only when under the cover of EU directives you are introducing changes that give the possibility of nationalising private banks. The question is, what was the whole conflict with the European Union about now that you are withdrawing from it, from this proposal? I also have a question, why did Zbigniew Ziobra ask the Polish Constitutional Tribunal about the compatibility of the EU Treaty with the Polish Constitution? Why are you doing this? At this point Poland is seen in the world as a country that breaks the law and is corrupt - precisely by this type of action. I would expect conclusions from all this confusion. If Mr Zbigniew Ziobro is not called off as Minister of Justice, then you are going on a collision course with the European Union, because that is where all these laws are being made, then there are proposals to question the EU Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, you show that you are incompetent, you do not understand the law. 'Cause what's security? I have a question for the Minister of Justice or the Vice Minister to explain what security is. This means that the Supreme Court Act has not been in force since then, and it also functions in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The rapporteur says 87% Poles are in favour of Poland still being in the European Union. Yeah, that's true, but you're not behind it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u115	Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we could say what a good government we have, how agreeable, how willing we are to make concessions to the European Commission and to dialogue. You can't be surprised what you're doing today. Suddenly, after months of the PiS battle on 21 November 2018, in the morning, he wants to admit the European Commission's point. We would like to say: better late than never, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not praise the day before sunset, because we know what law has come to the Sejm, but we do not know what it will come out, because it will not turn out yet. For a week now, ladies and gentlemen, you've been sitting in hot chairs. For a week now, the whole of Poland has been living a corruption affair with KNF, with which you are connected. For a week now, you've been doing everything you can to minimize this and to distract yourself from this issue, e.g. Yesterday was an attempt to cover the fact that there would be an accelerated election. Or that there's gonna be a government reconstruction, but the media didn't get it, so today what? Today is the law on the Supreme Court, but this law, ladies and gentlemen, is not a gesture of goodwill, and all Poles and Poles know about it, it is simply your cold calculation, because if there were really good intentions and those intentions were true, then in the Constitutional Court there would be no judges of doubles, there would be no purgatory in the common courts, there would be no politicised prosecution and the National Judicial Council, and all this is still, therefore this amendment is not any good will, it is simply your cynical calculation. I'm leaning on what my friend Michał Kaminski said so beautifully. It is not because of anyone who sits in this room, it is because of every citizen and every citizen who has been protesting on the streets of Polish cities for 3 years, sometimes alone. This is because of those people who often talk about how important the constitution is, and you should just be ashamed that you've caused such a devastation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u117	Mr Janusz Sanocki, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the day of the defeat of the Polish political system, the Polish Sejm. 80% society wanted change, it was in favour of changes in the justice system. There was an urgent need for reforms, fair reforms, pro-Citizen reforms, an examination of the situation: where there are causes of evil, causes of failure and injustice in the Polish judicial dimension. None of this was done. Minister Ziobro pushed through some party vision of change and it preserved in fact all the disadvantages that make the justice system of Poland not working and not working well, and we also compromised ourselves in the international forum. How is it possible that we have led to the Polish Sejm, which should be a place of debate, consideration, reflection... How is it possible that we are faced with this situation, that it is a serious law, which we are also going to try again, and it is the conclusion that without a debate on the committee... Then let's not have a debate at all in the Sejm, just let the minister or any party appointed by the governing party send an answer, write a bill, vote it out. Why? This conclusion and this situation show the fiction of our deliberations, the fiction of our being here. This means that Polish Members have not played their part, that they are deprived of their personal responsibility. I told you here, from this speaker, after the next change Mr Ziobro introduces here, that Minister Ziobro is a greater threat to the justice system than a million Arab Islamic immigrants. I said those words, and I stand by them. This is a disgrace after which Mr Ziobro should resign, and Mr Kaczyński and the PiS management should start the whole public debate on justice again. All the changes you've made should be undone because none of them lead to repairs. Therefore, this is the only honorable way out of this situation. We had two conferences with Mr Jachnik in 2016 for the victims, where there were more than 1000 people injured by the justice system. We've done a survey, which is what's causing the court's failure. No one took that into account. We've written a draft law on the system of courts. There's no such thing as a jury, like a judge of peace, nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? How can this Seym look itself in the face, and what is the cause of this condition that there are no sympathetic conclusions absorbed? It's not like we've been making these conclusions from the position of someone who's fighting the PiS, fighting the government. What is the cause, and what is the conclusion? The conclusion is that this Sejm does not fulfil its role. And this Sejm will not fulfil its role until the election system is changed until the Member is elected by the citizens and by the party's leadership. It is necessary to introduce one-mandate electoral districts, only from then on will real parliamentarianism begin in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u119	Mr Robert Majka, Independent Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm still a judge. I asked the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński to meet urgently on the reform of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, President Kaczyński hasn't found the time to meet me. [[Voices from the hall: Oh, dear, dear.]] Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy on the politics, easy on the nerves. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you are asking why this is happening in Poland, as it is happening. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all based on a very simple principle, the formula of General Czesław Kiszczak of August 31, 1988, which says clearly: We do not touch yours, you do not touch ours. And that's just the main cause. the failure of all reforms in the Polish state. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court Act and the Constitution of 2 April 1997 do not provide for constitutional liability of both the first President of the Supreme Court, nor do they provide for liability of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is proof that there is no equality before the law in the Polish State. And the last point I would like to raise here. As I said at the beginning of today's sitting, Mr.Ryszard Jach is making public criminal charges against the first President of the Supreme Court. And unfortunately, he informed former President Bronisław Komorowski - silence, current President of the Law Andrzej Duda - silence, then Prime Minister and present Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - there is silence, the previous Attorney General and current Prosecutor Zbigniew Ziobra - there is silence. I therefore ask the Attorney General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, to respond to the case that Mr Richard Jach presented, because this is a very urgent matter, a matter of state importance. Thank you, Marshal, for letting me speak. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u121	11 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The order of the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed only and exclusively the constitutional legal order in Poland prior to the application of the Law on the Supreme Court. Therefore, it makes no sense to proceed over this law because it is necessary to return to previous legal solutions. Suspend harmful laws demolishing legal order in Poland, withdraw from the KRS Act, stop politicising the Constitutional Tribunal. Your deposit today is merely an act of surrender before the Constitutional. Prof. Małgorzata Gersdorf was, is and will be until 2020, until April 2020, the first President of the Supreme Court and nothing will change that. Not even your majority in this Seym will change that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u123	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Warzecha, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Polish society is particularly sensitive to the high earnings of government officials. I would like to ask whether, by means of the amended act, judges who have retired, who are 65 years of age, will be forced to return their previous briefings. I would also like to ask if it is true that the rate for one day of unused leave of the Supreme Court judge is PLN 1150. [[They didn't ask for it.]] I would also like to ask, especially Members of the Civic Platform, who have recently organised the so-called. Is it fair for the first president of the Supreme Court to earn 27 700 a month? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Voice from the room: But not 40 million!]] Is it fair for her to make two... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Voice from the hall: How good is it why not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schreiber's words of doubt are still coming out of his mouth about the preliminary questions. Maybe I can help. This is a textbook for European law by Mateusz Morawiecki. Mateusz Morawiecki writes: If the standard of national law conflicts with the standard of Community law, then the competent national court may conclude that national law cannot be applied - Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Any Polish judge will be obliged, after Poland's accession to the European Union, to comply with Community law. Finally: Polish courts should give priority to the application of EU and Community standards in the event of a conflict of Community and national standards. I appeal to Prime Minister Morawiecki to refresh his knowledge transferred to the textbook, a very important one from which many law students also learned, and to you - to listen to Matthew Morawiecki's voice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u127	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the bribes some people want, the president's salary is charity at all. 40 million, sir. Maybe it's worth thinking about. [[Voice from the room: We'll make a movie sometime - 40 million.]] The fact that we're investigating this bill, and the fact that we're doing it in this mode... You insult this parliament, you insult the Members who sit here. It's even outrageous that you're doing something like this. You have a few hours, you can pass a bill saying that President Kaczyński is the President of Law and Justice. It will have the same effect as what you're proposing today, as you will confirm that the Supreme Court judges are judges. You're the only ones who haven't taken it into account. They're judges of the Supreme Court, just as your President is the President of the Supreme Court. Even if you're screaming and screaming, it's a fact, and this bill isn't gonna change anything. She's just embarrassing you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u129	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u130	I have listened very carefully to the applicant and I would like to tell you that you have said one very important sentence - that if we were not in the European Union, these regulations would come into force because you think they are good. Mr President, of course we are happy because if we were not in the European Union, you would already be raping the Polish Constitution, but you should observe the Polish Constitution because the Polish Sejm approved it, not because the European Union commands us. If you really want to be in the European Union, you want to be taken seriously, you want to respect the law seriously... One of the fundamental legal principles of the European Union is the principle of legal certainty. What kind of legal certainty can we talk about when you want a system bill in a few hours? Mr Schreiber is famous here for the Local Government Act. I will not mention salaries, increases for Members. Mr. Terlecki should still remember the BFG bill from the last Sejm meeting. Don't make that law because you're embarrassing the whole of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u131	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u132	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to address Mrs Pavłowicz. You wanted to tell me at one time that Mrs. Gersdorf contradicts the rules she's been learning since her first year of college. How will you look into Professor Gersdorf's eyes today? Who denies the rules, and who is wrong now, then, in trying to destroy the Supreme Court? I would like to ask you, Minister Sasina, who said in July that Mrs Gersdorf had completed her mission and is a retired woman: How do you feel today, Minister? I should also ask why they fell - supposedly they fell - from one of the politicians of Law and Justice's words that Mrs Gersdorf should sell at the bazaar, but I believe that this speaker and this hall are not from such shameful words to repeat. Finally, I would like to ask the President a question. Mr. President, aren't you? shame for the project you submitted in December 2017 in the Sejm, for the project that embarrasses Poland, lowers its rank in the arena [[♪ The bell ♪]] international? [[Applause]] [[When you talk to a woman, don't yell.]] [[A woman shouldn't scream either.]] [[If you ask a question, don't yell and take your hat off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u133	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u134	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is not a coincidence that a number of meetings of different committees are being held now. Usually, the marshal does not agree, but somehow these meetings are held today, during the examination of this point, concerning such an important issue for the democratic rule of law. This shows that PiS wants to hide from citizens at all costs the fact that this is happening, and that firstly, you lied to Poles, claiming that these laws are okay, and secondly, you broke the constitution. It is also symptomatic that the PiS submits such a law in a situation where it is de facto without object, because EU law applies explicitly. So you continue this way of getting Poland out of the European Union, but we will not allow it. We won't. We're gonna stop this march of yours. I would like to ask if it is fair that the judges of the House [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disciplinary... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u135	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. Mr President, you have already completed your performance, please leave the speaker. [[It's not a performance. It's a performance.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The last few days have best demonstrated to the citizen why independent courts and the importance of judicial independence when the citizen faces the machine of the PiS state. What can an entrepreneur count on, whose high government official threatens to take over his company for a dollar? What can an entrepreneur count on, to whom a high government official comes for a bribe? Only for efficient service, and that's what we've got a problem with lately, and a fair sentence handed down by an independent judge. But this just judgment will unfortunately never come if the judges who will deliver it have their colleagues of this high government official. That's the punch line from the last few days. Question: "Today you capitulate, but who will take political responsibility for the destruction of the Polish justice system?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u137	Member Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a very important day. This is the situation that the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is actually the European Union, instead of the Polish Members who represent the Law and Justice, is the guardian of the Constitution. This is a really big failure for you. I would like to remind you that the European Union is an area of democracy. When you repeatedly in your speeches, also from this tribune, announce that the opposition, that civil society is reporting on the European Union, you show that you do not understand the meaning of the European Union, because this is, once again, a field for negotiation. We opposition, unlike you, will have a dialogue with the European Union. I ask you to learn one thing: we, Poles and Poles are in the European Union because it is our European concern. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: There was still a common woman.]] [[Tell that to the Muslims.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u139	Member of the Commission, Marshal Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member who presented the bill which represented the Law and Justice said that according to this group the Supreme Court Act is in line with the Constitution. So what's the project for? What's the point of this project? He's gonna lead us right now towards unconstitutionality? What's it for? Why are you removing a record that prevents the first president of the Supreme Court from being removed, a rule that works backwards? These are the rules that are against the constitution. This is what we talk about in Poland, talks about opposition, talks about people on the streets, as well as bodies of the Court of Justice. The argument that this project, that this law on the Supreme Court is in line with the constitution, Mr President, is not true. Please do not mislead the public by saying that the Supreme Court Act is in line with the Constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u141	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dozens of laws in this Seym have been corrupted because the PiS ignores the scientific environments, professors, experts, NGOs, sejm lawyers who can make such comments, improve laws, make them better, avoid the mistakes you make all the time. Now we are proceeding on a bill at some extraordinary rate, which is foreseen in the event of some extraordinary situation. I'm asking you, what is the extraordinary situation that you want to proceed on this bill without work on the committee, without opinion, at a crazy rate. What's with the crazy pace? Has the war started somewhere at the borders of Poland? Is there any other fact that this law must be drawn up at such a rate, disregarding all procedures, not only procedures, but also the quality of the work of scientific and expert communities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u143	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question: Why isn't the first president of the Supreme Court, Professor Gersdorf, at this meeting? Has she been invited, Marshal? That's the first question. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Second question: Why did not one word, the word "sorry" come to an end during this debate? Why doesn't Jarosław Kaczyński come out on this platform, even without any mode, and say that word? This word belongs to us all, Poles and Poles, whom you cheated. You've also deceived people like Prof. Adam Strzembosz. This is a picture that's worth more than a thousand words. Prof. Strzembosz protests under the presidential palace on 22 September 2017. That's when President Duda didn't listen to him. Tonight I'm gonna sign these... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u145	The applicant's representative Mr Łukasz Schreiber has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As promised, I will try to persuade you to do this bill, to support it, and to answer a few questions. At the outset, we would like to point out that a large number of Members on the left side of the room resent the fact that the project is now quick to proceed quickly. To please you, it's probably harder than anything else in the world. I don't think there's a situation you could be happy with. [[You didn't even read it.]] [[Don't spoil it.]] High Izbo! Your marshal asks, "Why a project if it's constitutional?" The draft law on the Supreme Court, which the High Chamber adopted, was constitutional, yes, but precisely because Poland is a member of the European Union... [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Wait, wait.]] And that's what I emphasized. We also respect the safeguard provisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If you're surprised, it's very strange. [[You don't respect the Constitution.]] [[Voice from the room: You should have asked.]] Another point that might be worth saying is those things that the opposition Member has already called me back to Mr Morawiecki's textbook. Well, it is very valuable that you read the Prime Minister, but also read carefully until the end. [[You have to read it once and for all.]] In that case, the decision of the court concerns the identification of a particular case, and this must be said to be the case in which the standard of national law puts a party to proceedings in a worse legal situation than the standard of European law. So it can't be said that this applies to judges. Finally, another case that needs clarification. Those are the words that fell here, as if they were about some kind of surrender. No, High Izbo, it's not about surrender. [[No, victory.]] It's about respect for certain things that we commit to. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Why? You should have done it in April.]] But, High Izbo, in these changes that we have proposed, it is also about defending the subjectivity of this High House, because we cannot agree - and I have stressed this clearly and clearly - we cannot in any way agree that the safeguard provision is directly applicable law in Poland, because it is this Parliament, the High Chamber, that is from making law in Poland. I'd like you to remember that. High Izbo! Well, I'd also like to express... Here one of the Members referred to other draft laws which I was applying for. I'm glad you got the bill of the electoral code. Three times less votes that don't matter is really a success. Finally, I would like to inform and remind you that he is a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and not of any other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u147	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee and to refer the bill to the committee. We shall proceed to the settlement of these conclusions in the vote. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 42 hours 14 min 00]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Senior Convention, submitted a draft resolution to the High House on the commemoration of Isaac Bashevis Singer on the 40th anniversary of the Nobel Prize. The draft resolution was delivered in print no. 3030. I propose that the Sejm agree to complete the agenda for this draft resolution. The adoption of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of Isaac Bashevis Singer on the 40th anniversary of receiving the Nobel Prize (Print No. 3030). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the draft resolution: The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the commemoration of Isaac Bashevis Singer on the 40th anniversary of receiving the Nobel Prize. 40 years ago, in 1978, the literary award The Nobel Prize was awarded to Isaac Bashevis Singer, a Polish-born great writer and publicist whose work - in Yiddish - is an integral part of our cultural heritage. In the explanatory memorandum, the Swedish Academy stated that it rewards Singer 'for his affectionate prose art, which, growing out of Polish-Jewish cultural traditions, raises eternal problems at the same time'. Isaac Bashevis Singer occupies a unique place in the history of Poland as a writer who, in his work, preserved and commemorated images of the traditional Jewish community that no longer exists in our country today. The artist, born in Leoncin, Mazowsze, later residing in Warsaw and Biłgoraj, presented in his works a colourful and rich world of Jews living for centuries in eastern Poland. After his exile to the United States in 1935, he continued writing and journalistic activities, for which he received many literary awards. Isaac Bashevis Singer was also known as an animal defender. Appreciating the great contribution of Isaac Bashevis Singer to Polish and world culture, his sensitivity and originality of thought, the Polish Sejm today adopts a resolution on commemorating the outstanding creator, expressing its highest appreciation for his work and honoring his memory. I ask the High House to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Isaac Bashevis Singer on the 40th anniversary of receiving the Nobel Prize. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the act on tax on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Questions have been raised by the Members. Member of Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the debate, the Minister presenting this project stated that this was to be part of family policy. I would like to know how it is possible that 8 billion VAT from consumers' pockets, out of taxpayers' pockets, is to be part of family policies. This is a certain symbolism, because since 2019 it has been about 1% higher VAT and this is about 8 billion less in the pockets of Polish taxpayers, Polish families, and on the other hand there is another 1% - is 1% as a result of which there will be 40 million more in the pocket of the PiS-nominator. [[Applause]] I would also like to know what it is like with this alleged collection of VAT, because if it is as good as you say it is, then why, for God's sake, raise these rates and consequently draw about PLN 8 billion from Polish taxpayers' pockets. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u149	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no raise, and there will never be our consent. If you want to raise something, raise your moral standards by limiting nepotism or scandals in financial institutions. [[Applause]] The truth is, thanks to increased VAT rates, Poles lost billions and only gained theft. The VAT increase by PO, PSL and PiS caused the VAT mafia to take out an additional 20 billion PLN, and you want to maintain this state. Question: "Who do you work for?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u151	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The information for citizens is this: from 1 January 2019 Law and Justice raises taxes and VAT to you will be 23 and 8%. There was a promise from PiS before the election that he wouldn't do it. I am glad that you are Prime Minister Beata Szydło, maybe she will explain why she cheated before the election and in her exposé, saying that she will lower this tax. Now is the time to explain why you've been cheating society from the start and raising taxes, and that's the 30th tax you've been raising for the last three years. Congratulations indeed, and happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u153	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u154	Minister, is it true that this project introduces two indicators, including: the ratio of public debt to GDP, which if not more than 43% , gives assurance that there will be a reduction in VAT rates in relation to those currently in force and a return to 2011 rates, which later, in 2011, was raised by the PO-PSL government. Then tell me what the real odds are. [[There isn't.]] ...to achieve those indicators which give the right to reduce VAT rates. According to the Minister, today the indicators are very close to this level, which gives us real opportunities to reduce. Is it possible that in the next year, in 2019, real indicators will come closer to those enshrined in the Act and will authorise us to [[♪ The bell ♪]] reduction of VAT rates? Excuse me, one more question. [[Time, time.]] Is the truth... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...that Poles' disposable income, contrary to what you're talking about here, alarms...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u155	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u156	...in connection with the tax system very...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u158	...clearly increased in the course of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u159	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u160	... 3 years, 15% ? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u161	Is this where... Mr Latos? No, the Member will not answer. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2995, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. 177 voted against - 218, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the application and thus sent the bill to the Public Finance Commission. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court. In the discussion, requests were made to join the second reading without delay without referring the draft law back to the committee and to refer the draft law back to the committee. There will now be questions. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, is reporting the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a system act. For the seventh time, you're changing the provisions of the Supreme Court Act. It would seem like a serious approach to this. Let me remind you that legislative errors were the reason why even your Constitutional Tribunal repealed your bill last week. You have to take this seriously. Why are you even afraid of the debate on the Sejm committee? I think it's the first time someone's proposing that such an important, systemic bill should be passed without a job on the committee, the justice commission. Unless this is a kind of vote of distrust towards Mr.Peterowicz, who was the face of all these bad changes. [[Applause]] [[You will vote in favour.]] Oh, that's then yes, that's then we agree, but we have another proposition. Well, maybe we should cancel Mr. Peterowicz's disgraced one first, and then let's just renegotiate this project together in the justice committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u163	I remind the High House that according to the article. 51 - quote - The Sejm in particularly justified cases can shorten the proceedings with draft laws and resolutions by - and here is paragraph. 2 - accession to second reading as soon as the first reading has been completed, without referring the draft to the committee. So that's what the High House decides. The question is asked by Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's what I want to ask you: What's the hurry? What particularly justified incidents cause us to proceed on this bill at such a crazy pace? A month has passed since the Court of Justice ruling. Even if it is accepted that this law is necessary, but it is not, because the rulings of the Court of Justice apply directly, then why this haste? We proceed without analysis, we proceed without the required opinion of the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, without maintaining statutory and regulatory terms. There are rules that are internally contradictory in this law, but there are also dangerous rules, such as: Article 2 4, which gives rise to the abolition of all proceedings involving judges removed by the PiS, and consequently to the dismissal of proceedings which take place through questions referred by the Supreme Court to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Is that what this is about? ♪ To ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] were these proceedings terminated? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u165	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u166	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My question is to the right of this room: Why, with all this dignity, honorable, nationalistic phraseology in all these unfortunately empty phrases about the fact that no one is going to impose anything on us, that this Polish Sejm is the place where we will establish the law in force in the Republic of Poland, why do you today, in such a manner, proceed over one of the most important laws concerning the most important court in Poland? And why do you treat this Sejm like a country farm where Members are not representatives of a nation who have the right to debate, ask questions, listen to experts, but are puppets to raise their hands on request... [[The president.]] ...president, prime minister or president? This is an unworthy treatment of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u167	Thank you. The Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, asks for the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How's KNF?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! They have been known for many long months and since we have been debating the reform of the justice system, the various doubts that the state raises, which the various environments raise against the entire law, which is the subject of our proceedings today. I would like to make it clear here that we do not share these doubts. The law, which is the subject of an amendment today, is in line with the Polish constitution, is in line with European standards... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and is included in all the assumptions aimed at reforming the Polish judiciary. But at the same time our government, our environment, the environment of good change, consistently stressed that we are in the European Union, respect its rules and respect its principles. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Contrary to what Mr. Petru and other colleagues have said here, contrary to what you would like to hear here, we are today saying that we are consistent... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...that by not agreeing with the Court's case-law in Luxembourg, by not sharing the provisions that have been made, we consistently stick to the commitments that have been made previously, that we will uphold the rules. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That is why we are submitting this amendment, maintaining the full legitimacy of these changes which we have adopted, also maintaining and consistently implementing all the other very extensive changes in the area of justice that we are introducing and against you we will consistently implement, because Poles deserve fair and fast-acting courts. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] We know the courts in your case, we know the courts that were... [[Voice from the room: Read the statistics.]] ...on the phone, just like Judge Milewski. We know those hot judges who were willing to pass judgment on honest people... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Statistics read.]] ...such as CBA officers who have exposed your scandals, who have exposed those who sweat here... [[Voice from the room: 40 million.]] ...in this seym room, they said they were at the cemetery and at the gas station... [[Some Members chant: KNF, KNF, KNF.]] Well, the truth hurts. KNF will be your... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] KNF. Let me answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u170	The truth and our consistency in the KNF case will also hurt you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In pain, like hot iron, we'll burn out pathology. That's the state's attorney's office for a good change today. That's the Secret Service. [[Applause]] It's not gonna be like your time when that KNF notification about Amber Gold was waiting how long? 900 days. It took two and a half years before the investigation was launched. The next big economic scandals were happening, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Poles lost hundreds of millions of zlotys, and the DA's office, which you changed, reformed, didn't initiate proceedings. Months passed, years passed. And it's been three days. Three days and 1,000 days - do you see the difference? It's worth seeing. You will see our consequence... [[Some Members chant: Thieves, thieves, thieves.]] You're talking about each other. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u171	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u172	I know you're describing this because you know your environment well, so you represent them well. I know a little about it, too, 'cause I'm the Attorney General, [[Applause]] And I have to tell you and your colleagues, those you say there's nothing good for them: the prosecution will work and the thieves will always knock, not only at hours. 6:00 a.m. That's what you expect. Thieves can expect that. Honest people don't, regardless of party ID. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir, yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u173	Thank you. The applicant's representative Łukasz Schreiber is asking for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you'd like to know what hurts so much when it comes to this project. [[Voice from the room: KNF scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: KNF.]] Easy, easy. I told you... [[Some Members chant: KNF, KNF, KNF.]] Yeah, but screaming in this room isn't the best example. It's about how you're acting. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u175	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u176	I told you that the middle name of Law and Justice is dialogue and respect. [[Voice from the courtroom: Where's the acceleration in the courts?]] You, a party with the name "Citizen', have cut 6 million signatures under civil projects. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] It hurts. [[You guys don't even respect each other.]] High Izbo! It was said that things were bad when the Law and Justice had not made any changes in the last time. It is bad when you have a complex project and we want to debate it at a fast pace. Then how can you please? Well, it's very difficult, apparently. [[Voice in the courtroom: It's settled, Minister.]] High Izbo! I see here a very clear problem with understanding the essence of democracy. Well, you're confusing surrender with respect for the rules. Poland is a member of the European Union, Poland will be in the European Union no matter what you do, and on fake news about polexit that you spread. Yes, Poland wants to be in the European Union. Remember this. [[Elections are coming up.]] And, High Izbo, this case shows in an important and proper way the difference, one fundamental difference, between the left side of this room and us, and that difference is in respect for the rules. Well, we're presenting the attitude you see, and the State with the mouth of the leader of the opposition after your adverse judgment has been said: the names of these judges will be remembered. Yeah, that's the difference between Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. [[You don't even know what respect is.]] And, High Izbo, at the end - yes, we defend the subjectivity of the High Chamber, we defend the subjectivity of the Sejm, because we want changes in Polish law and principles that apply in Poland to be adopted here, in the Polish parliament, because we are Members of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u177	Thank you. I will now put to the vote a proposal with a proposal to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill as the most far-reaching proposal. [[Voice from the room: Against!]] Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law in print 3013, without referring the draft to the committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 217 voted against - 179, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm accepted the proposal and therefore agreed to join the second reading of the bill immediately. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Members have spoken. I'm opening a discussion... I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[Objection.]] I hear an objection. Then I shall put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the proposal that we should listen to 2 minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the debate, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 221 voted against - 179, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: 30 seconds, maybe?]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the bill submitted to the High House. At this point, I would just like to say one thing, to present an amendment that I would like to make on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. [[I mean, that was a good bill.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 the content so far to be marked as paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 2. In general, it's about... [[It's a great bill. What's the amendment for?]] This amendment aims to supplement the provision of the Article. 4 concerning the dismissal from the law of proceedings relating to the transition to retirement of judges who, under the proposed law, are returned to office in a former position, for a regulation concerning the remission of proceedings for establishing the existence of an active relationship of a judge. The purpose of the amendment is to exclude the possibility of continuing proceedings aimed at establishing the status of judges who have retired and whose return to active status is envisaged by the draft law, while recognising the active service as continuous, in accordance with Article. 2 (2) In the second sentence. I ask the High House to support this amendment, and I encourage it to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u179	Thank you. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, even if its intentions are good here, is scandalously prosecuted. About an hour. 10 you show it on the web pages, and at 10 o'clock. Fifteen, you want to vote him out. There used to be a concept like the principle of decent legislation. Today, it's not even about the fact that there's no decent legislation, it's about the fact that you lack common decency. [[Applause]] You didn't invite the first president of the Supreme Court, you didn't invite the Sejm legislators to proceed on this project, no one could comment. It's just that today, the legislative path should look like this: from Nowogrodzka to the Journal of Laws. Neither the Sejm nor the Senate nor the President - no one is needed. [[Applause]] You just want to send it right away from Nowogrodzka for publication. That's the legislative system. And you're talking about the dignity of the Sejm? This is the downfall of the Sejm. Don't you see what you're doing with the Polish Parliamentary Chamber? You completely ignore our procedures, completely ignore the elementary parliamentary decency. And that's what you call defending dignity and honor? In fact, remember that the Court of Justice has already introduced all that you want to do here today. The Attorney General today, from this speaker, says he's overseeing the D.A.'s office. Then why did the D.A.'s office issue orders for KNF so late? Why wait a week to enter Mr. Chrzanowski's house? And you're talking about equality of criminals? Your criminals are always protected because the son of a service coordinator works at the World Bank. And you guys are doing one big scam. [[Touchdown, applause]] That's what you need the D.A.'s office for. What you are doing with the Polish state is a scandal, because proceding this law shows how you treat the Polish Parliament, how you treat the legislature, how you treat the prosecution. You want everything under your shoe so you can sweep everything up if something's uncomfortable for you. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u181	There are amendments, just check that they are properly folded. Ladies and gentlemen, I draw your attention to one thing. The Sejm has decided to use such a rapid procedure... [[Voice from the room: Nowogrodzka!]] [[Nowogrodzka!]] ...in conjunction with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which was established in 1992, namely 30 July. And for each previous term of office, this article. 51 was often used. [[Voice from the hall: But not in such matters.]] So that I draw your attention not to mislead the High House. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is the seventh amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court and not the last one, ladies and gentlemen. Because this amendment is about nothing. She doesn't say anything about judges so far called, she doesn't talk about jury or jury, she doesn't talk about anything. [[It's interesting how you vote.]] This is a bill for you. It simply shows that this Sejm is unable to proceed according to the electoral order which is now in force. Until we change this electoral order, it's always gonna be like you're gonna say that they and they're gonna say that you guys. And we don't want that. The level of this debate must change. Justice is meant to be for the people, not for you. And I say it a hundred times. Prosecutors can't work in the Supreme Court because it's another embarrassment. People want an open trial, objective one. Justice is meant to be for the people. What are we giving them? We're giving them pseudo-criminals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u183	Thank you. Mr Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What does the PiS say not to admit that he passed a law against the Constitution? He says: We believe that the Supreme Court Act is in line with the Constitution, but the EU authorities want otherwise, so we agree to change. It was these EU authorities who, when issuing the freezing order, assessed the questions for a preliminary ruling. These EU bodies listen to what Polish citizens say. What are they saying? They say this Supreme Court Act is against the constitution. And today, with this project, you want to change, among others. the provisions relating to the non-action of the law backwards and the expiry of the mandate of the first President of the Supreme Court. These rules are directly incompatible with the constitution. You don't want to confess, you don't want to say that the Supreme Court Act you passed is against the constitution. But she is. Whatever you say, this bill is against the constitution, however you want to explain it, it violates the constitution completely. The Minister of Justice said you're reforming the justice system. But how? Which law is reforming the justice system and which law? Recently, the queues in the courts have increased and have not been reduced. Which provision do you reform common courts and the Supreme Court? Even if you curse reality, we all know very well that you must change the law that is directly incompatible with the constitution. It contains a number of irregularities that we will have to change in the next amendment, in the next project to correct. Please read this project and process it only then. You've allowed me, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want it to be a parliamentary project to make it quick, but unfortunately, it's just as simple as that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u185	Thank you. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - ED.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the hurry? The answer is very simple: shame. This haste is a shame because you are ashamed of your failure. But I have good advice for you: I advise you to fail to get used to it, because now you will. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yes, it will now, because you were going to Europe strong, short and ready. How'd it end? Not strong, not short, not ready. You are fleeing Europe today and praise God, though I will say it again: it is wrong that your foolish politics, to say the most delicately, humiliates the Polish state. You wonder why we question the sincerity of your intentions and ask whether you want us out of Europe. It is not the Members of the opposition, nor the Platform, nor the Modern, nor the PSL, who call the flag of the European Union a slut. She's called your messenger. Shame on you because it's not a flag that's a slut. [[Why?]] That's our flag. [[We have ours, white and red.]] It is you who call the Court a foreign tribunal, and this is our tribunal. It is you who call the European Parliament a foreign parliament, and this is our parliament, because this is our Europe and this is our homeland in our Europe. Today you are rightly ashamed, and you have to get used to the next failures, because you will lose and Poland will win. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u187	Thank you. Mr Jack Protasiewicz has 21 seconds left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u188	Yes, Mr. Marshal, thank you. I will add only one thing to what Mr Kaminski said. This is our community, and for you - says your president - this is an imaginary community from which nothing results. That is the truth about your intentions, that is the truth about your attitude towards the European Union, and that will be the punishment imposed by the Polish people in the vote in the forthcoming parliamentary elections, that you will be left with power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dismissed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u189	Thank you. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two articles of the Constitution. [[Voice from the room: No, there's a little bit more.]] One speaks of a six-year term and the other speaks of a retirement. I'm a physicist, a mathematician, and as I read straight, I don't find the answer to which article is more important. This is a matter of interpretation. Interpretations. And now we can't be the interpreter's point of view, we can be the democratic point of view. When there was a previous law, I abstained from voting because in my opinion it was a law consisting in the superiority of legislation over the judiciary, and in our constitution is the balance of the authorities. It's not about the authorities fighting, but it's about the authorities communicating with each other, being in balance. And now it's not a thing... We can't give it to interpreters. And if the European Union now gives us its reasons for this internal dispute, we will respect this reason. That is why I will now vote in favour of this law and I ask all of you to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u191	Thank you. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Circle of Members Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few moments ago, we had here a performance by Minister Ziobra, who came through here, popped up, and with the baked goods on his face, he tried to scare us. I wanted to tell you that no one is afraid of you. So do we. You said we know the judges on the phone. We know all your names, too, and I promise you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...that if you lose the election in 2019, everyone will be sitting where you should be sitting. That's once. [[Game in the O.R.]] Secondly, Mr Schreiber, Mr Schreiber, it is to you that you have already been admitted to the mine, as I recall, as was the payroll law. And now you're on a mine, too, and you'll be the face of what's going on here in the Seym today. You mean you're a party of dialogue and respect? This is ridiculous. You guys are... You're not even a party of Law and Justice. You're not even that. You're a party called pride and sonship. Yummy and my son's. [[Applause]] If you are talking about dialogue, dialogue and respect, why is it that Marshal Kuchciński or Marshal Terlecki - whoever is sitting there - will not allow us to ask questions about this bill? This is a dialogue? That's what you call a dialogue? In fact, you're after something else. Of course, there is no Mr Kaczyński, who is a coward, and every time he is afraid to be here and listen to this... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u193	Madam, I draw your attention...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u194	...what do we have to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u195	...to express yourself in the way you've been accepted here as... [[Everyone is responsible for their words. You don't have to review.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u196	Please give me some time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u197	...due in the High House...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u198	So let me remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u199	...and she didn't insult other people.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u200	...all those who see us: this bill has been passed because the Law and Justice can't deal with the corruption issue, the KNF. That's the only reason you threw that hot potato in today. Not because you have good intentions, just because, ladies and gentlemen, you are cynical and calculating. No one's gonna believe you. Nobody. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u201	I appeal to your Members to use words that are not insulting to other people. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading of the bill submitted... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, formal application.]] ...and the motion in writing for the Sejm to proceed with the vote on this proposal after the texts of these amendments have been delivered to the Members, I propose that we accept this proposal. If I don't hear any objection... [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[To the committee!]] There's an objection. There is an objection and at the same time a request for referral to the committee. In that case, I will put to the vote the proposal to vote on this proposal after the text of the amendments has been delivered to you and your Members, because this proposal has been opposed. [[To the committee.]] I would like to remind you once again that I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed immediately to the third reading of the bill after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We'll proceed with the vote. [[But what are we voting on?]] Who among you is in favour of proposing to immediately proceed to the third reading of the draft law in print 3013, after serving the texts of the amendments to the Members, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. 209 voted against - 177, with 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm adopted the proposal, and I would like to remind you that it agreed to join the third reading of the bill immediately after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the Members. In order to prepare the printing of the amendments and to deliver them to the ladies and gentlemen, I am ordering a 30-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 39 hours 15 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm agreed to join the third reading after serving the Members with a table of amendments without referring the draft law to the committee. Amendments were delivered for print no. 3013. We therefore proceed to the third reading of the bill. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. The 23rd Supreme Court Act. The question is raised by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u202	Dear Marshal, This amendment is a test for the credibility of Poland today. She's going to have the approval of the election in the Supreme Court by the Civil Chamber - a chamber where there are no doubles. Because this problem is gonna come back. As the matter of the first Supreme Court President has returned, so will the issue of understudyes, and in a moment you will have to unscrew everything that you started to unscrew today. This amendment is so that in a very important electoral year, in the year in which we will have elections for Europarlament, in the year in which we will have parliamentary elections, the approval of elections is through an House in which Mr Piotrowicz did not put his fingers and did not bring in people whose presence there is legally questionable. This amendment is a test for your credibility. That is why I would ask you not to reject this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u203	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[What are you afraid of?]] 385 Members voted. The vote was 153, against 210, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. High Seym! I would like to inform you that the meeting is being held at the moment by clerics and priests from the Higher Seminary. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Archdiocese of Czestochowa, welcome, [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]] as well as young people from the First High School of General Education in Zawiercie, we also warmly welcome you. [[Game in the hall, applause]] In the second amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 31 add a new wording § 1 and 4 and add § 5. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment, we want to restore normality, which, unfortunately, is alien to you. You've turned the world upside down and you think it's normal for you. But there's still normal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] outside your chambers, really. You're not the normal democracy, unfortunately. You're closer to Putin's democracy. You are closer to sovereign democracy, as Putin says. [[Game in the O.R.]] You don't want parliamentary democracy. You think you're the smartest, because in four or five hours, you're gonna push the bill. I'm afraid that's sick. You insult the Polish Parliament and Polish legislation. We want the first President of the Supreme Court to announce the release of vacant posts in the Supreme Court, not the President. You guys have some kind of phobia, and you want to pack up politicians everywhere - either the Attorney General, or your children, or the president, or the minister. This is unfortunately your illness. This is nepotism plus squared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u205	I ask you and all your fellow Members to use the words that are more relevant to the House's importance... [[Voice from the hall: Then act normal.]] ...not words that provoke and which are a form of insinuation and introduce... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's for Minister Gliński.]] ...of various forms of insulting. [[The voice from the room: The truth!]] The question is asked by Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u206	This law is an unsuccessful attempt to enforce a judgment of the Court of Justice - a judgment which EU law does not require legal changes to be made, which is directly applicable. Some say this bill is a good gesture from the PiS. Is that a good gesture from the PiS? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A good gesture on the part of the PiS would be to introduce a law that would remove all the changes that would deprive the Supreme Court of its independence from the politicians of PiS. That would be a good gesture. And this amendment, which we... which the Civic Platform is proposing, is a step in the right direction, is a step that says that the President is denied the right to decide how many judges decide in each Chamber in the Supreme Court. This is a step in the right direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u207	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. 156 voted against - 219, with 21. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose in Article. 4 of the amending act delete the words and appeal proceedings in these cases. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With this amendment, we want to enable the judges to obtain valid decisions on appeals against the resolutions of the National Court of Justice, in which the Supreme Court asked a number of preliminary questions. Your regulations make it impossible to obtain such decisions. But in this case it is also worth mentioning Judge Stanisław Zabłocki, a judge whom you have moved to rest and who spoke in his dramatic speech during the Senate session: Even if there are no more free courts and free elections, there will be free people who will remember them. And a specific question for you, Mr Kaczyński: Will you apologize today to Judge Stanisław Zabłocki for all this... [[There was this.]] What are you doing and firming your own person in this case? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u209	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the fear of the PiS by adopting a law that deprives Polish judges of the right to a court, which leads to the dismissal of all proceedings initiated in respect of preliminary questions raised by the Supreme Court to the Court of Justice of the European Union? Because PiS is afraid that independent of the PiS' influences, the EU Court will clearly explain how far Poland, under the PiS rule, has deviated from European standards, from democratic standards, how it drifts to the East, destroying the achievements of many generations of Poles who fought for Poland to be in the heart of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u211	We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 157 voted against - 220, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2 The 4th Amendment Act. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club has tabled an amendment that is worthy of little Kazia. Mr Schreiber, no offense, but I suspect that someone just slipped you that amendment, just like Mr Smolinski on the issue of the Financial Supervision Committee. [[Applause]] This amendment, on the other hand, will cause a smaller mess, but it will. Namely, you are trying to deprive Polish citizens of the right to court. At the moment, proceedings are being initiated to determine the existence of employment relationships in courts. And these citizens have a sacred right to settle these cases and enforce their legitimate rights in court, but you're afraid to take responsibility because you know these cases are lost in advance. You know, this is about paying compensation from the Treasury, and you're cowardly running away, through this whole bill, you're cowardly running away from the liability for the mess you've made over the last few months. And I do not know whether Mr Schreiber or Minister Ziobro or any of his deputies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who over the past few months have been so smart about the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u213	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u214	He's gonna apologize to all the judges they've exposed to this whole mess. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u215	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u216	Thank you, Marshal. This amendment, tabled by the PiS Club, is intended to terminate by law any legal dispute concerning the employment of judges of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court who have gone from the Presidential Act to the resting state. In this situation, she is de facto approving the fact that they are legally returning to work and service in the Supreme Court. In this context, I would like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki, who has repeatedly spoken about the fact that that law you are updating today was to exclude from the Supreme Court judges issuing shameful judgments in a state of war. Are you ready, Prime Minister, or do you have the honour, or do you have the courage to apologize to Judge Zabłocki after all these calumnies - a defense attorney in the state of war and Professor Strzembosz, whom the Supreme Court has decommunised? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u217	The question is asked by Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Schreiber's amendment does indeed deprive the Polish judges of the right to obtain a decision independent of the influence of the politicians of the Court of Justice. This is an amendment that PiS is very afraid of. If he hadn't been afraid, you'd have waited for this ruling in peace, patiently, while you're running some crazy race against time. Why? Because you are afraid that the Court of Justice could judge not only the Supreme Court Act, but as a result of these questions it could also assess what you have done with the National Judicial Council, turning it into the National Council of Ziobrovnictwo with your PiS nominates instead of independent judges, the people who elect the next judges to the Supreme Court against the very order... [[Why do you insult people?]] ...for the protection of the Court of Justice. You guys are chasing fear right now and you're making this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u219	Once again, I appeal to you to speak in accordance with the importance of this House... [[But no appeals. This is not a marshal's role.]] ...not in a way that provokes... [[Voice from the room: For what?]] ...a variety of reactions. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, write to...]] We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. 217 votes against, 156 against, 24 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 4a in the Amending Act. The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment aims to fully implement the freezing order. You really want to pull out the individual elements that would fit you and the Treasury, which would not expose you and the State Treasury to possible consequences, but you are creating a prosthetic that will actually create an even bigger mess in the Supreme Court. In fact, after the adoption of this law, no one will even be able to say how many judges will be able to judge and how many will be at rest. In fact, it is not known, although the freezing order clearly states that we are to return to a state prior to the entry into force of the Supreme Court Act. It will not be known why the Polish legislature distinguishes the status of judges of the general court from the status of judges of the Supreme Court. According to this law, there will be different rights regarding the state of rest. So I ask you to take over this amendment, because you [[♪ The bell ♪]] you do not fully implement this provision on security, putting us, Poland and Poles at risk of losing the case before the Court of Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u221	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among your fellow Members... [[Voice from the room: One more question.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Question.]] Oh, yeah. Excuse me. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. [[So no one's gonna answer those questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is this law implementing, as you claim, a decision that protects the Court of Justice? No, this law does not, at least, implement this recommendation of the Court of Justice, which says that any procedure for the assembly of judges in the Supreme Court should be suspended, who are elected by an unconstitutionally-managed National Judicial Council. And we know very well that the head of the KRS said that he is still asking for opinions on the candidates for judges. We know that these procedures are still under way, that you have not complied with the Court of Justice ruling in any way. And anyone who at this point is questioning the judgments of European tribunals is really questioning Poland's place in the European Union and taking the first step towards polexit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u223	We're voting. Who of you is voting in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. The vote was 158 against - 216, with 22 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Before voting on the whole draft law, Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, asks questions. [[Can you count on an answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u224	And now a fundamental question about what you were after. Take over the Supreme Court. Why did you have all these attacks on the common courts, the tribunal, the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council? It wasn't a target in itself. All these attacks were for one purpose: to achieve impunity of all those PiS nominates who are involved in the scandals that the media are talking about at this point. The media is reporting an attempt by the PiS to extort a 40-million-dollar bribe. 40 million PLN - for this amount the Polish teacher would have to work 1000 years. That's why you're taking over the courts to create an outlaw caste, a caste of PiS politicians, PiS nominates. This will be the caste outlawed by the law you will create with these laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u225	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the words spoken in the High House. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Ziobra, who has always given an excellent and intellectually deepened speech in which he gave us an invaluable message that Poland belongs to the European Union. The question is, did you come up with it yourself? How did you figure that out, Mr. Ziobro? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] By the way, Mr. Schreiber, the new star of reborn parliamentarianism, asked a dramatic question: What to do to please you, democratic opposition? Mr. Schreiber, it's very simple: to go away, to go away in shame forever, to go away now. [[Applause]] Leave Poland alone, Mr. Kaczyński. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u227	Please... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has the right to vote within their time limit. [[Everyone says what they know.]] Mr Richard Petru, Circle of Members now!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're about to vote on this bill. [[Voice from the room: Not soon. Now!]] [[Now, not now.]] Mr. Marshal! We're about to vote on this bill. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Now!]] There is one person responsible for legal chaos, for conflict with the European Union. This is Zbigniew Ziobro. I'd expect you here not to make such speeches as you just did, but to resign honorably. Minister! Tell me what you did in Poland... [[Voice from the room: Now!]] ...that we have a conflict of law with the law of the European Union, that you have actually made mistakes that you are now silently withdrawing from. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] What is more, I ask you, is a further dispute with the European Union. You're talking about dialogue and respect. What kind of dialogue is this with you guys if you're not listening? What kind of respect is it when in one day we work one law without experts, without analyzes? Thank you for being so respectful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u229	Please. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Proceding this law will be described in the books as a shameful example of legislation. It is really necessary to try very hard to break the procedures of the Polish Parliament and to say with a smile on your lips that it is in the name of the rule of law and in the name of the dignity of the Polish parliament. Maybe it's your dignity, but thank you for it. We want to have a normal dignity, as stated in the Constitution in the article. 30. It's on your head, and you have no idea what you're doing. Listen to your legislators. Your legislators, the experts of the Sejm Analysis Office, clearly wrote in the conclusions of the opinion, which is on the pages, you could read it: Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court may lead to defective implementation of the TSUE. It's just your hypocrisy. Ask your lawyers, they'll tell you. You just don't have any shame, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Destroying Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u231	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] that the procedure for working on billing projects, including this... [[Change.]] ...on which we vote... [[It's a system bill.]] ...runs by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm adopted in 1992... [[Mr. Marshal, in exceptional circumstances.]] ...so honored by all terms, also by the two terms of your group, which ruled before. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that withdrawing from proper reforms in the area of justice under the pressure of the EU institutions used to fight politically sets the limits of our sovereignty in a very uninteresting place. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, an hour ago, you were putting each other on the spot. Some say they're right, others - why this bill, the third one said something else. Ladies and gentlemen, now you're making five amendments and no one has asked the Legislative Bureau if they're going beyond the framework of this bill. I think they're leaving. So why don't you demand an opinion? Lawyers and honourable Members, Mr Kropiwnicki, say: yes, the legislators say so. And did the legislators say whether these amendments are good or bad? [[Voice from the room: There was no committee.]] It's okay. You guys were the ones who passed the bill years ago. Thank you. [[PiS!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u235	Thank you. The applicant's representative, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to answer briefly the questions you have asked. [[Mr President, finish what you started.]] [[No one asked you.]] High Izbo! I will stress once again with all force: the Law on the Supreme Court, which was adopted in the Polish Parliament, was in line with the Constitution and the Treaties of the Union. That's a fact. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: Really?]] [[The voice from the room: Why are you changing it?]] [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] But with us and in us, High Izbo, there is also responsibility and respect for the principles to which we have committed ourselves. [[Voice from the room: Nepotism, for example.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be ridiculous anymore.]] Poland is a member of the European Union. Poles want Poland to be a member of the European Union. Poles voted in favour of accession to the European Union. [[Voice from the Chamber: Krasnodębski wants a referendum.]] That's also the answer to my friend's question about sovereignty. Yes, it was a sovereign decision of Poles and Polish parliament to join the European Union. That's why we might have a different opinion today. We argued, we showed our rations, but we can also act responsibly in this situation. High Izbo, however, does not mean that we are going, as part of the left side of the room proposes, to create a very dangerous and very dangerous precedent for a provision of protection directly applicable by law. [[He's letting go of Bialowieza.]] We are fighting for the sovereignty of Poland, we are fighting for the dignity and position of the Polish parliament, so today we are carrying out this law in the Sejm, because here, in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, there is a place where the law is established. [[Voice from the room: Is that why there was no committee?]] High Izbo! That's good, too. There was a question about votes, about breaking the rules of parliamentarianism. Oh, my God, who's talking? This is said by a party representative who stole money from OFE from Poles in 3 days. Do you have any more shame? [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Some Members chant: KNF! KNF! KNF]] We'll get back to you in a minute, take it easy. I can see you're in pain, but the truth must be accepted. High Izbo! There were some amazing words here about the Constitutional Court. Let us remind you, then, when you bring up this subject, who has chosen to promote the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, the Seym of the previous term. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And what's the majority of them? I think you all remember very well. Why? I don't have to tell you that either. [[The voice from the room: You did the same thing.]] As far as the Constitution is concerned, we believe that the present constitution is nothing dreamed of, yes, but we observe the constitution's provisions. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: If you make a mistake.]] On the other hand, I will remind the High House of how it is trying to assassinate the Constitution. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Art. 57 - freedom of assembly. Do you remember who made the decision to solve... [[Voice from the hall: Only the capital is Warsaw and the end.]] [[Mr. Marshal, spare the shame.]] Art. 105 - parliamentary immunity. Also during this debate in this House there were accusations, not accusations, threats against Members of the Sejm that they would sit because they vote and carry out their duties. [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the room: You will be!]] Art. 152 - Voivodeship as a representative of the Council of Ministers. Whoever's on the show wants to take out, you know that. Art. 178 - judicial independence. Who showed how he doesn't respect court judgments? Who's threatening the judges? You remember. [[Yes, sir!]] The names of these judges will be remembered. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? [[Of course, your name will be remembered.]] When will the word "sorry" come out of your mouth to the court and those judges? High Izbo! We've heard a lot of words about nepotism, about things. There's a good example for that, a good characteristic. [[Get to the point.]] [[Voice from the room: Kaminski.]] At 3629 employees, ARiMR 1707 has repeated names. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Szysko?]] [[Name.]] High Izbo! This is an example of an institution managed by the PO-PSL coalition. That's how you used nepotism on an unprecedented scale. And High Izbo... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the hall: How many Schreibers are there in the Seym?]] I see you're still in pain. High Izbo! You're saying something about an affair. Yeah, there are big issues to explain. [[Some Members chant: KNF! KNF! KNF!]] There are big issues that Poles remember. Today, on the VAT investigation committee, we heard how the law was created, how independent lobbyists acted in KPRM. That's what we heard. [[Mr. Marshal, get to the point. Get to the point, man.]] We remember the infoafer, and not that someone supposedly wrote on a piece of paper that nobody saw, 1% but 5 million zlotys were circulating in cash, in assets between officials. It was a big deal. [[Voice from the room: Silver.]] There was a scandal that I think you're forgetting, a gambling scandal that had to be replaced by half the government. High Izbo, therefore, Law and Justice cannot go away so that no repetition of these governments can take place. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Finally, I wanted to answer to the party's representative the End, i.e. Now, if you'll excuse me... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha ha!]] ...but I didn't think it made any sense anymore. I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u237	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3013, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 215 votes against - 161, 24 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Supreme Court Act. I inform the High House that tomorrow morning at the hour. Nine doesn't have votes. The votes are tomorrow at an hour. 19. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 13 hours 16 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection (prints No. 2959 and 2967). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on the Protection of Databases from Printing No. 2959. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the proposed amendment is to implement into the Polish legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain works and other subject matter protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, the visually impaired or the disabled, and on the revision of the Directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, the date of implementation of which expired in October of that year. The provisions of these Directives aim to bring Union law into line with the European Union's international obligations under the Council Decision on the signing, on behalf of the European Union, of the Marrakesh Treaty on the facilitation of access to published works by people who are blind, visually impaired and those with print disabilities, as well as by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Marrakesh Treaty requires the party to specify exceptions and restrictions with regard to copyright and related rights for persons with these disabilities. These objectives are set out in the Directive as follows: the Directive aims to improve the availability of books, including electronic books, magazines, newspapers, magazines and other types of written text, notations, including musical notes, and other printed materials, including in the form of sound, digital or analog books, online or non-Internet books, in forms whereby these works and other protected objects become accessible to those persons to the same extent as to persons without such limitations or disabilities. High Izbo! Marshal in accordance with Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The Commission adopted it unanimously after first reading and considering this draft law, which amended it on legislative and editorial matters. I therefore request, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, that the High Sejm adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u239	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the Act amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. High Izbo! The Government of the Republic of Poland is obliged to implement Directive 2017/1563 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017. It concerns certain permitted uses of specific works and other subject matter protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of blind people, visually impaired persons or persons with print disabilities and amending the Directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. Blind, visually impaired or disabled people face numerous obstacles to access to books and other copyright and related rights. It is estimated that the availability of books in formats that allow access for people with disabilities to read print is between 7% a 20% Despite the fact that digital technology makes it much easier to publish in accessible formats. Such formats include e.g. print with Braille alphabet, large print, electronic books, books spoken with special navigation, audiodescription and radio transmissions. Directive 2017/1564 aims to bring Union law into line with the European Union's international obligations under the Council Decision of 14 April on the signing, on behalf of the European Union, of the Marrakesh Treaty on the facilitation of access to published works by blind, visually impaired and disabled persons who do not have access to print, adopted on 27 June 2013 at the Diplomat Conference of the World Intellectual Property Organisation. The Treaty, so-called The Marrakesh Treaty was adopted to facilitate the availability and cross-border exchange of books and other printed materials in formats allowing access to disabled people around the world. The Treaty was also signed by the Union in April 2014 and the Council decided by Decision of 15 February to ratify it on behalf of the European Union. The Treaty also requires the parties to specify exceptions and restrictions on copyright and related rights for blind, visually impaired and disabled persons who do not have access to print and to allow for cross-border exchange of copies of books in special formats, including audiobooks and other printed materials between countries which are parties to the Treaty. High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, in a positive opinion on the draft, I also make amendments, unfortunately, which will aim to improve the quality, clarify the records and give the right wording to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the bill amending the Act on Copyright and Related Rights and the Act on Database Protection. It's a 2959 print. The Government of the Republic of Poland is obliged to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain works and other subject matter protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of persons with disabilities. And when it comes to disability, they are blind, visually impaired, people with disabilities that make it impossible for them to read the print. Furthermore, this is also a change on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. This directive aims to align EU law with the international obligations under the Marrakesh Treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind, visually impaired and those who do not have the possibility to read print. The Marrakesh Treaty was adopted in 2013 at the World Intellectual Property Organisation in order to facilitate the availability and exchange of books, other printed materials in formats allowing access to disabled people around the world. People who are blind, visually impaired and with other disabilities who have problems with reading printing experience huge problems in accessing books and other materials that are protected by copyright. The availability of books in formats that allow access to those who have a problem with reading printing, is between 7% and 20% despite the fact that digital technology has made it much easier to publish in formats accessible to people with disabilities today. Such formats are: print with Braille alphabet, large print, audiobooks with special navigation, audiodescription, radio transmissions, electronic books. The implementation of this Directive will allow for greater availability of magazines, newspapers, magazines, books, written texts, notes, printed materials, including in sound, digital, analogue and online and non-Internet formats, in which protected works will become accessible to people with disabilities. This law will contribute to the fact that access for people with disabilities will be the same as access for people with disabilities. The proposed amendment also aims to identify the actors in this area and to introduce rules for the exchange of copies, thereby creating a coherent international environment conducive to cross-border exchange of copies in accessible formats. For the benefit of people with disabilities, it is permitted to use works which are widely distributed when they are directly related to the disability, the use is not of a commercial nature and are taken into account in terms of the nature of the impairment. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of the amendments presented in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u243	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u244	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The Modern Posel Club will, of course, vote in favour of the Government's draft Print Act No. 2959 and 2967. I will only say one sentence, supplementing the previous speeches, namely that there is no more dramatic reality than when people who are disabled are excluded from participating in culture, from participating in society. This is the great neglect of all these governments, all those international organisations that have so far refused to deal with this problem holistically. Therefore, this law is extremely important from this point of view, so that one can be aware that social cohesion also means the participation and presence in society of people who do not have the full opportunity. So this is something that is deeply humane and deeply human. Today we are aware that society is not only made up of people with disabilities, but are also surrounded by people who are not always able to cope with each other or with the tools of the latest civilization, with the latest technologies. Here we have a case of the fact that the latest technologies will enable participation in culture. This is a very important law and this directive should be introduced long ago. Thinking about the future of a diverse society, a multi-level society, I am sure that all those who feel excluded will have a chance to return to a society with which they will be able to have an open, equal, partnership dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Pasławska made her statement in writing. One Member asked the question. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I ask Mr Pyzik, the Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Loss of vision or significant permanent visual impairment are a huge limitation in everyday life. However, those affected can maintain an admirable amount of self - independence in their daily lives. In contrast, restricting access to much of the literature, the press and other written works is difficult to overcome. Therefore, the proposed measures implementing the European Union directive - hopefully - will contribute to greater accessibility and, above all, to reducing the additional costs of people with disabilities today. I'd like to ask you about the instruments. What instruments do you put in place to monitor the effects of these provisions? What instruments do you put in place to verify whether they fulfil their functions sufficiently? It is about instruments that will allow monitoring of this solution to both ministry officials, representatives of the third sector and, of course, the environment concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Minister Paweł Lewandowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As regards the question that has just been asked, I answer that those who are obliged are primarily libraries which are required to provide information on the use of this exception to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage as part of their reporting. However, the introduction of this exception does not have to be additionally controlled, because it results from itself, i.e. Everyone has an obligation in the world to comply with this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u249	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u250	The PSL - ED Poselski Club welcomes the bill submitted and will vote in favour of it. We fully agree with the intention of adapting Polish law to the European Union's international obligations resulting from the Marrakech Treaty to facilitate access to published works to blind people, visually impaired people and people with other visual dysfunctions. According to scientists, a healthy man in 80% gets to know the world with his eyesight, and the other four senses together make up only 20% of our perception. It is therefore necessary to help people with vision disabilities in all ways. Facilitating access to spoken books, musical works and other material protected by copyright is an important form of support for improving the social functioning of people with vision disabilities, which is almost 1.8 million in Poland, i.e. almost 2% of the country's population. We also agree with the argument that the proposed changes will not affect the publishing market in a negative way. The draft law also adapts Polish law to EU legislation. We will therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u251	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on security of mass events (prints No. 2933 and 2978). I ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, I have the honour to present a report on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on security of mass events, print No 2933. This is a committee project, I will remind you, a draft of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, which I am chairman. He assumes, in short, the following goal. The purpose of this amendment to the Law on security of mass events is to temporarily suspend the provisions of the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act in force. This suspension is made, requested in connection with the organisation of the FIFA U20 World Championship tournament, which will be held in Poland in 2019. I will remind you that the championships will be organized in Poland, in six cities: Bydgoszcz, Bielska-Biała, Gdynia, Lublin, Łódź and Tychy. Due to the international nature of the event, due to the experience we have, because the temporary suspension of this article was requested by us before Euro 2012, as well as before the European Football Championship until the 21st century in Poland - everywhere there the suspension of these rules worked out because nothing bad happened, there were no dangerous phenomena - we ask for this suspension. Of course, the point is that, in accordance with this article, which we will suspend, on which suspension by the High House we request, the sale of an entry ticket for football matches or the transfer of another document authorising a specific person to stay on it shall be made after obtaining the data referred to in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, in accordance with the identification document. On the entrance ticket, I'll remind you, there must be a name, a name and a PESEL number. This limits the possibility of passing tickets between family members, as well as between groups of children and young people, whom we expect most at this type of event, at a party of this nature. These previously mentioned experiences and the improbable promotional dimension of these events for Poland are an additional argument. In Poland, not on Euro 2012, but at the European Championships up to the years 21 we recorded the highest turnout in the world when it comes to filling stadiums at youth teams matches. It hasn't been done anywhere so far. We want to do it again. The organizer is UEFA, but of course also our football federation, the Polish Football Association. We want to help with this so that we can have these tickets. I would also like to say that at international events foreigners, fans from other countries who come to us for senior football matches, also benefit from this exemption. It is written directly and works in Polish law. So at these events this right will be equalized for foreigners and - most often for young - football fans in Poland. So that the social impact will be positive. Economic, financial and legal not here... The project has no negative effects. We are therefore proposing in this report... I would like to remind you that after the first reading that took place on 7 November 2018, we adopted this proposal without amendments. I propose, on behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, that the Sejm adopt these amendments without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u253	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Thank you very much to the rapporteur, thank you to the Members of the Parliament's Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, and thank you to all those who have worked on this project. The Law and Justice Club supports the project in its entirety. The project shall be designed to suspend the provisions of the Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 currently in force law on the security of mass events in connection with the organisation of the FIFA final tournament U20 of the World Championship Poland 2019. The introduction of the proposed solutions will make it possible to align the legal situation of Polish citizens with the situation of foreign fans and to participate freely in this sporting event mainly of families, people who often have to exchange tickets among themselves, even inside the family, between siblings. This is a youth tournament. On this occasion, I would like to say that our main motivation in terms of the full support of this bill is, above all, certainty, which has its origins in previous experiences. For a few years now... Here I wanted to say this very clearly and thank you, to the police and other services of the Polish State: fire department, State Security Service, Border Guard, because I think this is the main guarantee that this event will be held safely. Poland against the background of Europe, for which I thank all services, has recently been able to boast very successful projects of international nature, but also local, but on a huge scale, such as the White-Red March, which has been recently, or other marches, including opposition marches, but also youth events on a huge scale. During these celebrations, we feel really safe. I think it is of great value, and for this it is important to thank everyone responsible for the security of mass events in Poland, because it is precisely these experiences that other countries of the European Union can draw from, they can learn how we can do this in Poland. Hence, I think that with great peace we can fully support this draft amendment to the Law on the security of mass events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u255	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Roman Kosecki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will begin by congratulating our young people to the age of 21. Yesterday she won Portugal and moved to the European Championships in Italy and San Marino. I think that these countries will also benefit from our experience, because we have a lot of experience in organizing youth events, since there is, you can say, a new hand. We remember the last European championship until the 21st and great, indeed, as President Raś said here, a great, best turnout so far. And we're having another party: this time, the world championship until the 20s. By not repeating all these paragraphs and points here, which is the purpose of the relationship of the amendment, namely the suspension of this provision of the law, art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One and two... What exactly is this about? This will enable the stadiums to be filled mainly with groups of children and young people, because at these events, as we have recently had the European Championship, there was a full interest of children and young people. What's important is these parties don't put the police, the police, anybody down. That is when you have the most work and indeed we have great experience after Euro 2012, after the last European youth championships, now will be the world championship. I think we have a lot of experience and we can probably share it with many countries. So it certainly does not put the service down and we will all want to represent Poland beautifully at these world championships. As I say, we've made these changes before with these kinds of laws. May I point out that the law does not provide for financial implications for micro-enterprises, the proposed solution does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units, the proposed amendment to the Law on the security of mass events does not require the issuing of implementing acts and the proposed solution is not covered by European Union law. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I propose to adopt a draft law from print no. 2933 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u257	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I think I'm gonna be a traditionalist and I'm gonna be brief. A bill like this is very good. We had a similar one, as my previous speakers mentioned, also a year ago. I think that the draft law was very well presented by the rapporteur, Mr Raś, who explained exactly what was going on. Therefore, it would be unfair to waste the time of this House and the honourable Members. Therefore, I would like to inform you that Kukiz15 will fully support this bill, I think that like all Members in this Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u259	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm not gonna chat around here, either. Let me say that it is good that this project has been submitted, the Modern Club will vote in favour of this law in its entirety. I can only say that I am pleased that more and more world-class events, world championships, European championships are being held in Poland. It is pleased that Poland has been granted the right to organise these World Football Championships for football players until the 20s. We have good experience. I will not hide that this also affects the fact that more and more events are being handed over to the organization because the opinions about how we prepare these events are very good. We also welcome the cooperation of everyone that we are working beyond divisions on this issue, and we are all trying to make sure that, first of all, we are safe at these events. Unfortunately, it is not up to us, and I wouldn't mind if the Sejm passed a bill that Poland would be the world champion, but unfortunately it depends on the players. So that I wish them all the best and, of course, we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u262	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Posel Club accepts with full understanding the Commission's draft law on amending the law on security of mass events. This change deals with the introduction of an accident provision. The aim of the revision of the law on the security of mass events in this room today is to temporarily suspend the provisions of the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the current legislation. This situation is integrally linked and related to the organisation of the FIFA final tournament U20 of the World Championship Poland 2019. This tournament is organized by the International Football Federation, FIFA, together with the Polish Football Association between 23 May and 15 June 2019 in six Polish cities. Given that the nature of the tournament is to include the competition of youth teams, the destination of entry tickets for matches, which is not difficult to predict, will be mostly a group of children and schoolchildren, as well as sports with families and guardians of these children. Faced with the situation of athleticism of children and young people, instilling in them the beauty of sport, my club is in favour of introducing the proposed changes, which will, however, make a good contribution to the departure from the existing legal regulations of rigors, which in other cases should take place and be justified. We should fully agree with the justification of the committee project, that during every mass event, I mean the sport nature of events, there may be unforeseen situations of an even extreme nature. Literally applying the provisions of the part of the available mass event security law would prevent the participation of groups of children and young people in such situations, for example because there is no possibility of passing tickets to other persons in the event of an emergency. The introduction of temporal legal solutions for the period from 23 May to 30 June 2019 will facilitate not only the organisers, but also young people and children and their parents or carers interested in developing sport and healthy competition. The introduction of the proposed solutions will allow to align the legal situation of Polish citizens with foreign supporters. It is noted here that the project under discussion today does not have any financial, legal or economic impact. This solution also does not entail a burden on the state budget or on the budgets of local self-government units. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the belief that this noble purpose will be served by the amendment of the law which we are leaning on today in this Chamber, the Polish People's Party's Association - the European Union of Democrats fully endorses the solution contained in the report of the printing commission No. 2978 and will vote in favour of the amendment of the amending act. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u263	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If you don't... We have one question. It is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to obtain information from applicants as to whether the institutions responsible for security in Polish stadiums, especially the State Police, confirm a different composition of the audience at youth representation matches, which would justify a waiver from strict rules adopted. The proposed solution seems interesting, but I believe that the High House should obtain such information before taking a decision. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u265	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer this specific question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u266	Dear Marshal! High Seym! This question was not addressed to me, although I will answer it of course, but you will allow the marshal and the High House to say a few words. It's a little wider. First of all, I would like to remind you that art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Law on the security of mass events on the entity distributing tickets to the mass event requires the entry to a football match or another document authorising the presence of personal information of the fan, i.e. the name, name and number of the PESEL, as well as the number of the place to which the ticket relates. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. In paragraph 15, paragraph 15 is replaced by the following: 1 provides that the sale of such admission tickets shall take place after obtaining the data referred to above, in accordance with the document confirming the identity. This draft amendment is aimed at facilitating the distribution of tickets to the World Junior Championships, which will take place in Poland from 23 May to 15 June, where 24 teams will be held, thanks to the suspension of the obligation to place personal data of participants in football matches on tickets or other documents entitled to stay at a mass event. This is justified and possible because we actually have good experiences, without them it would probably be a discussion about whether such solutions should be introduced. I would like to thank President Arkadiusz Czartoryski, who had to attend other classes, and Mr Roman Kosecki for his good opinions concerning, among others, the following: services responsible for the security of mass events, including football matches, youth football championships in the scope entrusted to these services. This is precisely one condition: good work, good performance of tasks by security services. Without this, we would certainly be discussing whether this solution should be implemented. Secondly, they have been addressed to the organizers, and rightly, praises for the fact that they prepare well organized and organize such championships well, because this also gives assurance and assurance that everything will be all right. And the third factor is the experience of responsible behavior of the participants, fans at these matches. This is where I answer Mr Pyzik's question. In fact, there is another group of fans at the Junior Championships. Young people come here, young fans come here, families come. Experience is very positive. There are no such problems, there has been and - I hope - there will not be, which sometimes occur at games of adult, non-young, league or in international competitions, in world championships of non-young teams. But we also have progress there, and I hope that the solutions that are put in place and those that are still being discussed will allow us to feel that security and experience - because this feeling must, of course, be the result of experience - are growing. As for these championships, as in previous cases, because this solution has actually been applied several times, we hope that it will be the responsible composition of the fans, that the organizers will be up to the task, that this solution will simplify participation in these matches, that it will result in a greater attendance of organized groups, especially youth groups, that it will also allow families to be present at the matches and will provide further confirmation that it is possible to experience these sports events together in a responsible and joyful way and participate in them as fans. I would also like to point out that these championships should - all of us want - be a joyous sport spectacle, as I have already mentioned, addressed to families with children and young people, to those who are schoolchildren and will come to these games either individually or with families or in organized groups. Perhaps, I hope, in the future of them, these young people will recruit for example. national team footballers. After all, interest and active participation in sport are the way to do so. Therefore, it is worth making it easier for young people to have access to sport, especially to these matches, to the championships and to the youth games that await us. We are pleased that they will be held in Poland. Indeed, a similar solution was already applied in 2012 during the joint organisation by Poland and Ukraine of the European Football Championship, as well as during the final tournament of the European Junior Football Championship in 2017, which is quite recent. These were on 16 and 30 June 2017. The use of these solutions in the cases I mention did not result in a decrease in the level of safety. This is the assessment of the services responsible for security, so it is a very important factor and, we hope, a lasting guarantee. But of course, the servants will do their job. I would just like to remind you that the remaining rules of the Mass Event Security Act, apart from the one that is suspended, will be applied to the youth World Championships that are approaching, which we are talking about, FIFA U20. This is particularly the case for Article. 5. That is also what I want to remind and make clear in this context. once again, according to this article, the organizer is responsible for the security of the mass event in the place and the duration of the mass event. On the other hand, other entities, such as the Police, the State Fire Department, other actors and services, are required to secure the event within the scope set out in the relevant legislation. I have to say this so that it doesn't feel like the police or other state services are responsible for everything. That's not true. The services shall be responsible for those tasks which are defined in the laws and for the safety of the organiser in the first place. In view of what has already been said in the speeches of the Members, bearing in mind the experience I recall, and the good assessment of the efficiency of the services, as well as the occasional nature of this provision, I would like to say that in the assessment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, as well as the chiefs of services, because at the committee meeting they also expressed their views, the draft law can be assessed positively and accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Ireneus Breś.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! In one opinion, Mr President, let me answer this question, even though Mr... No, not in spite of it. The Member is not in my parliamentary club, but we support the same club: Cracovia Kraków. I would like to say this: With regard to the experience mentioned by the Minister, the services are positive. I will even say more, Minister: We could put this limit, it is the exclusion, in relation to all the matches of the Polish team, because there are no more such events, because these games are different, but it is only about representation matches, not club games, because there are still problems there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u269	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on a governmental draft law on a European political party and a European political foundation (Prints No. 2827 and 2928). I would very much like to ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I present a report on the examination of the Government draft law on the European political party and the European political foundation, print No 2827. The draft law aims to ensure that EU regulations on the status and financing of the European political party and European political foundation can be applied in Poland. These regulations regulate the legal status of European political parties and related European political foundations as bodies pursuing European political objectives. Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure the effective application of the Regulation. The Commission for European Union Affairs considered this proposal at its meeting on 7 November. In the course of the work on the project, Members tabled amendments. Most of them are editorial and legislative amendments. All amendments were accepted by the Members of the European Union Committee on Affairs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the European Union Commission, I request that the draft law be adopted together with the amendments proposed by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u271	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, the Law and Justice, is the first to speak. There isn't. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. There isn't. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Members representing other clubs who were to speak before me in the order of the Rules of Procedure are probably not present because this law does not really cause controversy. This is, as the rapporteur said, the implementation of the European Union regulation on how to register in the Member States of the European political party and possibly affiliated to this foundation party. Our doubts that we had at first reading, which we also formulated during the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, were resolved during the discussion, and therefore the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats is in favour of adopting this law, while stressing - this is already a comment that may be submitted only to the protocol, possibly for those who will see it - that we are talking not about parties that would replace the Polish political parties, but about European parties, i.e. those operating within the European Union, going beyond one member country and not least competition for national parties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Acting in the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u273	Thank you very much. And, please, Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u274	Dear Marshal! With regard to the report submitted by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on the Government draft law on the European political party and on the European political foundation, I would like to maintain the support of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for this project, which I have already expressed from this point of view. The regulations proposed in the draft law cover, in particular, issues related to the closer definition of the national legal regime for these entities, as well as their formation, transformation and elimination. That is why we reiterate our support for the project under investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. And you are the only one asking Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a doubt. Is the ability to act so-called. the European political party in Poland is not in conflict with the article. 11 constitutions? I understand that, in the light of this provision and the Law on political parties, the European political party is not, in principle, a political party in the Polish legal system, but only an entity registered under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please indicate whether there is a legal possibility to change the contents of the above mentioned document. a regulation and thus provide European political parties with more opportunities to act than the Member State has given them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u277	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform, has come to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a rule, the Civic Platform club agrees, of course, with the proposed law, but doubts are raised by one provision. Because supervision in the form of a request for deletion from the register of a European political party and a European political foundation is to be exercised by a prosecutor-general. The same Attorney General, who today - I am talking about today - has not yet settled itself, and this is subject to scrutiny by the European Parliament, from the proper spending of funds within the European Parliament's activities, within the framework of its activities in the European Parliament. So here the question arises as to whether the Attorney General is today the right person who should be able to apply such a request to be removed from the register. As a rule, the Civic Platform Club supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u279	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer the questions briefly, first Mr Pyzik. Of course, as you rightly said, the European political party is not a creation that will work in any way in the area of national policy. For completely different purposes, this construction is intended. In this connection, the national party and the European party have little in common, in fact, beyond the name. The extent of their impact is different. National policy takes place in principle through Polish political parties, if we are talking about the Republic of Poland. And, of course, it is theoretically possible to amend the EU regulation in any way, so that, theoretically, some changes could be imagined that could enter national policy issues. But the EU legislative process involves the active involvement of national actors, national governments in the negotiation process. For now, of course, there is no indication that such initiatives will be, and if they ever occur, the Polish Government will of course react. In advance, I don't think it would be intentional for the moment. The government would probably object to mixing these orders. National policies should remain as exclusive national parties. But this, of course, is a question of a uncertain future. No one has ever, at least for what we know, signalled the intention to amend the regulation in this direction. This cannot be ruled out, there are different ideas, both at national and European level, but during the negotiation process we are able to counteract changes which, from a Polish point of view, would be unacceptable changes for the parliamentary majority as well as for the government. As for Mrs Pomaska's question about the Attorney General, we are talking about this once again. We talked about this at the first reading and during the committee meeting, so tradition must be satisfied - we will also talk about it at the second reading. Let's not mix the Attorney General's office with Zbigniew Ziebra or any other person in the past or in the future. This is about the issues of the rule of law body. Of course, someone's got to be acting as the Attorney General. Today it is such a person, who once was another person's office, and in the future it will be another person's. We don't see any risks arising from the fact that this is the office of the Attorney General. On the other hand, when it comes to personal matters, I will not comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch also wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs very warmly for supporting this bill. I would add that this project was very widely consulted. The comments to this project were discussed at the agreeing conference on 6 October 2017. At this conference, the participants who gathered, after hearing the draft, after certain explanations within the prescribed time limit, maintained... simply informed here that they had withdrawn from these comments or had been submitted to a project which had been discussed and previously at a committee meeting, and today here in the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u283	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services (Prints No. 2904 and 3014). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we discussed a government bill amending the act on value added tax, print No. 2904. Three amendments have been tabled to this draft law. After a broad discussion, the High Committee accepted all the amendments. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this bill together with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law amending the Law on value added tax provides for amendments to the Act of 11 March 2004 on value added tax. The proposed amendment is necessary in view of the obligation to implement two directives of the European Union and aims to align the provisions of the Polish VAT Act with those of other Member States of the European Union in respect of the taxation of vouchers for goods or services issued after 31 December 2018 and on VAT clearance by entities selling telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to consumers from other Member States of the European Union. The proposed amendment regulates two fundamental issues. Namely, it is about the rules of taxation of vouchers for goods and services, including the introduction of new concepts such as vouchers, single-purpose vouchers and multi-purpose vouchers, the issue of vouchers and the transfer of vouchers. Secondly, the project also envisages changes in the clearance of the tax on goods and services in the case of telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services provided to non-VAT entities located in Member States other than the provider. The implementation of the Directives will achieve the overarching objective of the project, namely to harmonise legislation at EU level. In analysing this project from the perspective of the socio-economic impact it may have, it should be pointed out that the introduction of a threshold of 42 000. PLN for telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services will reduce the number of documents and procedures related to the cross-border provision of these services. Turning to the analysis of the socio-economic impact of the implementation of the Directive on voucher taxation, it is important to provide taxpayers with uniform VAT rules, vouchers for goods and services in the territory of all the Member States of the European Union. The proposed amendment will pursue the objectives that the designer has set before it, namely, firstly, to harmonise the rules on taxation of vouchers for goods and services at the level of the European Union as a whole, and secondly, to simplify the documentation obligations of some providers of telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to consumers from other than Poland Member States of the European Union and at the same time to increase the competitiveness of businesses. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u287	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services. The aim of the project is to implement two EU directives: the Directives of 27 June 2016 and the Directives of 5 December 2017. They still change earlier directives, refer to vouchers for goods or services and to the provision of services and the sale of goods at a distance. The project solutions for vouchers for goods and services in principle deserve a positive assessment, which does not mean that minor reservations cannot be raised. The proposal also amends the principle of taxation of the provision of telecommunications, broadcasting and electronic services to non-taxable entities in the Member States of the European Union, introducing facilitations for traders providing such services. The original text completely ignored the issue of changing the place of supply of services to Polish consumers by service providers from other Member States whose value of services falls within the tax threshold according to the rules of their country of residence, as we pointed out in the opinion of the Civic Platform club. In this state of affairs, the original project was a incomplete implementation of the Distance Selling Directive. It is therefore a good thing that during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, an amendment was tabled aimed at applying the relevant provisions also to taxable persons established there - the term: business headquarters - permanent residence or normal residence in a Member State other than Poland, as this eliminates the disadvantage I have mentioned above. On the other hand, it should be noted that, unfortunately, the amendments were only submitted to the members of the Committee on Public Finance during the meeting of this committee. This is unfortunately not an exception, so Members had no opportunity to read the amendments before the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, so they were not prepared for this committee. However, as I said, in general, neither the objective of the project raises reservations nor, in principle, an overall assessment of its solutions. It is a positive assessment. I'll tell you some details in the question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u289	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Długi, Club Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Pampuch and Mrs Genowefa Tokarska made their statements in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask for a brief explanation as to whether the proposed amendment is envisaged to amend the tax administration regulations accordingly, so that the mechanism of the voucher distribution chain cannot serve as an illegal transfer of taxation outside the Polish fiscal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u291	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the question of terminology was also raised at the committee meeting. In the legislation on the common system of VAT of the European Union, the term "head office', in English "establishment', is used to designate the head office of the business and the permanent establishment of the business. On the other hand, the English terms "business establishment" and "a place where business is established" are translated as a business headquarters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have said that, therefore, it should appear in our law in such a way that the term "seat" should be used. Our legislative services were then asked how this should be done. The answer was not exactly that, it was not exactly the answer to that question, but it sounded so that in our files we used such terminology. Because I believe that this is incorrect terminology, regardless of the fact that I have not studied previously what terms are used, I have a question as to whether the Ministry of Finance intends to address these terminology issues, so that our terminology corresponds to the terminology of European law, in the English language version, at all...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u293	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u294	...in others. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u295	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Philip Light to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u296	Thank you, Marshal. Philip the Dawn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u297	I'm sorry. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: My name is often wrong. I'm sorry. I'm very sorry, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: It's okay. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions. With regard to the first question concerning the envisaged signals concerning problems with VAT carousels, in terms of vouchers alone, we do not have such signals as would require us to take action here. Consequently, a number of such safeguards have been introduced in this law, and there have been several parliamentary amendments that clarify certain issues, e.g. performing certain activities using foreign vouchers without remuneration. So that certain such safeguards were introduced into the bill. Speaking of Professor Nykiel's question about the definition of the entity's seat - the terminology proposed by us may be somewhat inconsistent with English-language terminology, here I have to agree. On the other hand, we consistently apply this inconclusive terminology in the law and, in fulfilling the purpose of the directive, we implement it correctly. It's about small businesses, it's about not having a lot of seats. Therefore, this phrase, which may not be a literal translation of the English translation, is a terminology correct... [[Acceptable.]] ...to be accepted, yeah, maybe acceptable, exactly. On the other hand, it correctly reflects the objective of the Directive. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the draftsman of the committee, Mr Andrzej Noblechta, still wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is rare in our practice at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances that we adopt tax laws in consensus. Here, this event took place and I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs that they were able to recognise the right resulting from the procedures for implementing European Union law. I would like to thank the professor who brought such an intellectual layer into this debate to clarify some doubts, and thank you very much to all the clubs for voting in favour of this project. I think that this practice, if it were to enter into other projects, would probably be beneficial for financial law as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u299	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, in print no. 2904 and 3014. The aim of the proposed project is to implement two EU directives. The first amends the provisions concerning the tax on goods and services and the issue of vouchers for goods and services. The second directive regulates the provision of certain services and the sale of goods at a distance. The direction of changes in the law outlined by the EU directives is undoubtedly right and should lead to simplification and harmonisation. Unfortunately, the proposed proposal does not address the errors affecting the whole implementation of the directives. Among other things, the definition of the voucher contained in the project is not precise. In particular, there are ambiguities regarding whether the voucher is a means of payment or a discount and whether the voucher can be issued in non-cash form. During the consultation, a number of stakeholders raised doubts about this issue, but the Ministry merely informed them that clarification was in the Directive. Such an approach is far from satisfactory and does not fall under the principle of good legislation. The Ministry even refers to the fact that a taxable person, if he is still in doubt, may benefit from an interpretation of tax law. Both the Ministry and Parliament should seek legislation that is transparent and understandable for entrepreneurs. Individual interpretations should only be a truly unique element in the application of tax rules. As I mentioned, the draft submitted contains shortcomings, but as it implements EU directives, Members and Modern Members will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services, in print No. 2904 and 3014. The draft law implements two EU directives: Directive 2016/1065 as regards VAT on vouchers for goods or services and Directive 2017/2455 as regards VAT in the case of the provision of services and the sale of goods at a distance. The draft law, which in many cases mimics the provisions of these Directives, aims to harmonise the rules in force in all EU Member States from 1 January 2019. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting yesterday gave a positive opinion on this proposal, introducing a number of editorial and clarification amendments tabled by Parliament's legislators and three substantive amendments. Substantive amendments are also, in principle, clarification of the regulations and definitions contained in the draft law. I would also like to point out that in the course of the work on this project, very many institutions and, above all, business associations have expressed their position, paying attention to unclear and incomprehensible definitions and regulations. Due to the short implementation time, and because of their convergence across the EU, we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u302	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law on ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fights for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State (print No. 2920). I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Piechota to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a proposal that has been adopted by the Committee on Petitions. The Committee on Petitions addressed this project to the Marshal of the Sejm at the initiative of the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. It was these two organizations which, together with the Warsaw insurgents and the memory of their achievements, took the initiative to specially protect the graves of national heroes. The petition points out that this protection is insufficient today, and that is why national heroes are sometimes buried again and again, and sometimes these graves are destroyed. This is often due not so much to the bad will of the cemeteries managers but, sometimes, to their ignorance, to the unawareness of the special merits of those who have been buried in these places. Therefore, the Association of Warsaw Insurgents and the Foundation for Remembrance the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising requested that such places be protected by very specific actions. Firstly, the petition indicated the need to establish a National Heroes' Base of Rest. The Institute of National Remembrance, the President of which would be an important participant in proceedings for the special protection of such places, would run the base of these places. Thus, this database would contain information that is widely available and thus facilitate the protection of such places, such graves. Secondly, the petitioners proposed that the President of the IPN should be allowed to ban another burial in a grave deemed to be the resting place of the national hero, just in order to protect the uniqueness of this place. In this regard, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that today's existing procedures, although they mention such exceptional graves, do not, however, introduce a specific systemic, consistent protection of such sites. It was pointed out above all at the expiry of the 20-year period, after which another burial may be carried out in such a grave, and that the procedures in force in cemeteries under the current law cause e.g. that no one will report, because he does not know... there are no such relatives who would look after this grave, who could respond to the information that this 20-year protection period has expired and that, therefore, if no payment is made, another burial may be carried out here. Thus, the idea is that the President of the National Heroes Restaurant Base, who has knowledge of the IPN, may issue a ban on another burial, and the associated costs are covered by the state budget through the Institute of National Remembrance. The petition and the draft law attached thereto also indicated that the costs of maintaining such graves, those places of rest of national heroes, should be financed from the state budget, because they are part of the protection of national heritage. Therefore, the entire national community should take over, take on the costs of ensuring proper care of such places. These were the essential elements of this project, which also contains a preamble very strongly revealing the reasons why this law would be adopted, as well as the procedure for providing such places with this special care. At a committee meeting, a representative of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers pointed out that these proposals coincide with a project on which government work is underway and that this project will soon also be addressed to the Sejm. As a committee, we had the conviction that both projects would meet in the Sejm and that it is clear that the government project would be considered as a basic project, but when considering the provisions contained in the government project, the solutions proposed in the social project will be taken into account, and therefore in this project which was attached to the petition. I would therefore like to express my regret that this did not happen, that these projects here in the Sejm do not meet, that the government project was considered at first reading at the previous meeting. Today, at second reading, we will only adopt the committee report and any amendments. Unfortunately, this means a separate examination of both projects and makes this social project to some extent questionable and not fully participating in this new regulation. And yet, because of both this, I would say, integrity to the social partners and such legislative rationality, it would be good if these projects were considered together, and that is precisely now that we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. After all, this 100th anniversary isn't about one specific day. 11 November is a symbolic day, but regaining independence lasted long before 11 November, and the process of forming an independent Republic lasted for a long time after 11 November. These are just the next years when the borders of our country were forming, and these borders were very long uncertain. In a moment, at the end of December, it will be the anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, which was very important for the shape of the Republic of Poland. Once again, I regret that both projects are not considered together. Of course, the proposals included in this social project, in the project attached to the petition, in the project of the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Memorial Foundation, can also be taken into account very specifically. about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising, even during work in the Senate. And even if that had not happened, it would, of course, be possible to consider in the future an initiative to amend a law that will be adopted on the basis of a government project. I am therefore convinced that, as Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, I hope that the solutions proposed by the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Foundation for Remembrance about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising will be fully taken into account in the creation of this new system of care for the resting places of national heroes. Finally, I would like to mention that an important element of the social project was the proposal that two years after the entry into force of this law, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance should present information on what the collection of data on these places of rest looks like, how much care is already in place today, and how much it should be modified to be effective and well served the purpose of this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is one of many that have been prepared and addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm in the Committee on Petitions in the last 3 years. I will only inform you that, during these three years of work, the Committee on Petitions has decided to present 44 draft laws, 29 of which have been addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm. I would like to ask for a specific, detailed, very thorough examination of this project and to take into account the proposals it contains also in the work on the government project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Before we proceed to further work on this bill, I would like to warmly welcome the Warsaw insurgents who are listening to today's proceedings, Mr Eugeniusz Tyrajski and Mr Zbigniew Galperyn, and Mr Rafał Szczepański, who came with the insurgents. Thank you so much for listening to our deliberations. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u305	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is of course justified by the statutory regulation of the protection of the resting places of participants in the fight for sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Poland. It is worth noting - as noted here - that the High Chamber is sitting simultaneously on a government bill on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, which concerns the creation of records of veterans' graves fighting for freedom and independence located on the territory of the Republic of Poland and abroad, as well as the launch of public support systems for care over veterans' graves. They rightly point out to the applicants of this Commission draft law that preserving the memory of national heroes is an essential element of every national community. One way to preserve the memory of national heroes is to provide adequate care for the burial sites of those who participated in the struggle to defend the independence of our homeland. The task of the State and of all its authorities is to ensure that the graves of national heroes are kept in good condition and that they are not wound up, especially in cases where there is no possibility for members of the deceased's family to continue to take care of the resting place. Indeed, the current state of law does not entirely allow public authorities to carry out this task properly, so we are actively and respectfully supporting the project and engaging in legislative work in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u306	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u307	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to welcome guests to the gallery, in particular representatives of the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Memorial Foundation. about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make it very clear that the project that came out of the Committee on Petitions has been addressed to the Sejm by these two important environments. It is a project expected by the Warsaw insurgents' community, but also by all the veterans' communities fighting for freedom and independence. Indeed, insurgents, socialists have long received disturbing information about the possibility of eliminating national hero graves. The insurgents of Warsaw and those who fought for independence and sovereignty of the Polish state were increasingly marked with information: a grave to be wound up. In many cases, the reason for this is the lack of payment of cemetery fees. Therefore, the union, and the foundation have prepared a bill that will protect the graves of heroes. The possibility of liquidation of the grave appears most often after 20 years of burial when the cemetery manager did not come forward to pay the cemetery fee or the administrator would not consider the grave to be a historical memorial. The lack of knowledge about the independent activity of the buried person may result in the tomb being destroyed by the cemetery manager and used to re-buy him. I would like to make it very clear that these regulations come from the 1950s, i.e. from a period of deep PRL, when respect for national heroes was not the subject of much interest from the authorities. There is a special duty at this moment on us next generations to restore the memory of our heroes, to restore their dignity. According to the author of the bill, which I would like to mention right now, Dr. Hab. Prof. Marcin Wiącka University of Warsaw, the situation in which national heroes' graves are threatened with liquidation is a legislative omission. The Polish state, its citizens are obliged to show gratitude to the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other national heroes who risked and often sacrificed their lives in the struggle for sovereign, independent Poland. This obligation arises, for example, from the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but of course it must also be said very clearly - the liquidation of the national hero's grave is an act that violates the dignity of the entire Polish society. This is why the aim of the draft law is to remedy the legal situation leading to such effects. Ladies and gentlemen! It was very bad that before this project, the commission project, was aimed at first reading, the work on the government project accelerated very much. The government project is, of course, a desirable initiative, because it will enable some part of the funds to be made available for the renovation of national heroes' tombstones, but what the Commission project provides for, and what the Foundation has proposed, and the Association of Warsaw Insurgents, is above all protection. And that is what I would like to make very clear to the High House. We also dealt with specific situations when both the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the foundation took a number of actions of a social nature. This is mainly about the tombstone, where General Zbigniew Ścibor-Rylski, nicknamed Butterfly, now rests. It's a neglected grave in which his wife, the national hero, also lies. Thank you very much for this initiative, which has been taken, especially in the field of public collection for this purpose. But this is above all, and that is what we want to emphasize very clearly here, the responsibility of the Polish state towards national heroes, that such actions should remain [[♪ The bell ♪]] systematised and could count on full support from the state budget. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you again for this initiative, which was taken by the Warsaw community. This is an important initiative, and we will support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u308	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the Commission's draft law on ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fights for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State, print No. 2920. The bill is good. Its decisions should be considered, as has already been pointed out many times here, in connection with the Law in print 2902, the government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence. The proposed law entrusts the protection of listed places of rest of the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and the fight for independence of Poland to the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. By the fact that they will also be cared for by local cemeteries, the legal and financial consequences, but above all consciousness will extend to the whole of Poland. This is well due to the formation of identity and historical awareness of Poles. We should all worship those who, under different circumstances, have died or lost their health, fighting for a fully independent Poland. It is happy that such an initiative has now emerged. Therefore, Kukiz15 is in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Warsaw insurgents! We, the Polish people, all the citizens of the Republic of Poland, grateful to our ancestors for their work, for the struggle for independence occupied by huge victims, will remember the bitter experiences of the time when fundamental freedoms and human rights were violated in our homeland... - so stated in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. From her art. 5 On the other hand, it is clear that the preservation of national heritage is one of the most important tasks of the Republic of Poland and of all public authorities. But not only does the constitution respectfully refer to veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, to national heroes. A number of laws, including the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, declare that it is the duty of the public authorities to preserve the memory of the great amount of victims, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War and to cultivate the patriotic traditions of the Polish people's struggles with the occupier, Nazism and communism. The preservation of the memory of national heroes is an essential element of every national community, and one of the forms of preservation of this memory is to provide adequate care for the burial places of people who participated in fights for the defence of Poland's independence. It is the responsibility of the State and of all its authorities to ensure that the graves of national heroes are kept in good condition and that they are not wound up, especially when there is no possibility for members of the deceased's family to continue to take care of the resting place. And that's what two drafts of prints 2902 and 2920 are about today. We will read such words in the justification for the project prepared by the community of Warsaw insurgents. November is a time of special memory of the dead, saints, preserved in our memory, about heroes, thanks to which we live today in free and independent Poland. Therefore, from this place, from the heart of Polish freedom and democracy, which is Parliament, I thank all those who contributed to the preparation and submission of this project in the Sejm. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad you're here tonight. The two prints I mentioned, of course, need to be clarified and harmonised. I hope that the Final Act will be, despite what Mr Piechot said here... We hoped that these prints would be processed together, on the committee, to choose the best from these prints, to complement them to be consistent and full and meet everyone's needs. I hope that this bill will ultimately be a compilation of the best records from both prints. It is worth noting that this project in the petition committee submitted an environment of Warsaw insurgents represented by the Warsaw Insurgents Association and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. The Commission was unanimous on the need to adopt the draft law submitted and to take up legislative work. We had guests that were important to the whole country. We also welcome you today, Warsaw insurgents, our national heroes. I believe that the whole Parliament will be equally unanimous on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u312	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Pasławska gave her club statement in writing. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Commission's draft law on ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other people deserved in fighting for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State. As the applicants point out, this project responds to the petition of the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. According to its regulations, the main body responsible for ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of heroes' resting places fighting for independence and sovereignty of the Polish state will be the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is also envisaged to create a public resting place for national heroes and that the funding for the maintenance of the graves in question will come from the state budget. The bonding protection of our national heritage is enshrined in our constitution. I have no doubt that those who have shown courage and fought for our free and sovereign homeland should have the highest respect after death. Thank you for taking the legislative initiative and we appreciate it. We will vote for this project as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u314	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, is the first question to be asked. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask a question to the representative of the Committee on Petitions. Mr President, we have now received a notice that tomorrow at 3 p.m. 8.30 a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will be held on the consideration of possible amendments to the government draft law on veterans graves. I hope, however, that this committee meeting will not be held because, as I understand it, the intention of the Members who have been expressed in their speeches is that these two projects should be considered together. I will only give one example to the President, as well as to the High House, our guests, what are the differences between these projects. First of all, there is no reference in the Government Act to the Veterans Act. Let us remember that the legislator considered it a veteran activity [[♪ The bell ♪]] activities of those who have helped e.g. Jewish people were hiding under threat of losing their lives. These people are excluded. What do you think, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw the attention of the designers of the bill to some insymmetry. In accordance with the provisions of the Art. 2 The law will apply to all participants in the Warsaw Uprising. The question is whether it will apply to all participants of the June 1956 Uprising in Poznań. I will remind you that there are still participants of the Warsaw Uprising and the Poznań Uprising. Well, you don't literally mention them, you just refer them to the first four articles of the Veterans Act. In the law on combatants we can read that it concerns those active participants in the armed application for the freedom and sovereignty of Poland in Poznań in June 1956, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which it caused death or damage, and therefore not all insurgents from June 1956. This is an insymmetry that, in my opinion, is worth considering. I, of course, call for the proposed law to apply to all participants in the uprising of 1956. Thank you, and I apologize for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u318	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad we're proceding a project that at least partially protects hero graves from liquidation and oblivion. In this way, such formal and informal groups as e.g. Gliwice Patriots, who have been collecting for years for cemetery fees for for forgotten tombstones of people deserved to their homeland, will receive institutional assistance. However, I have the following remark. Wouldn't it be appropriate to establish a catalogue of persons, e.g. honored with some State decorations, members of certain armed formations whose graves, if the President of the IPN had not made any other decision, would be bound by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant, a representative of the Committee on Petitions, namely the solution which appears in print No 2902, i.e. the draft law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. For some reason we have to... we should consider these two projects together, they really should meet. It's about this tool, which is the public burial register. There is no such solution in your project, and it seems that such a register is quite a fundamental issue here. The aim is to ensure that these places do not fall out of collective memory and public responsibility. What do you think of this register? Shouldn't there really be an amendment in the project or a change that would also include this register in your solutions? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u322	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Piechota, the representative of the applicants, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The starting point and the essence of this law is the objective expressed in the preamble, the objective to which Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska has so clearly referred. This purpose and this intention expressed in the preamble should be subordinated to all detailed solutions. As I have already mentioned, the committee has decided to put this project in place as quickly as possible. We were convinced that the Council of Ministers was working on a project on the same issues. That is why we were convinced that when these projects meet as part of the joint examination, there would be a place and time to examine in detail how much of the project to draw from, so that the final effect would be as complete as possible. As I have already mentioned, unfortunately this did not happen, and hence, today's doubts about this commission project can be said. However, this does not mean that the solutions proposed here cannot be implemented in the future. Although it is not in my opinion that these projects can be combined today, since the first reading of the government project has taken place, since today we have a second reading, this means that the project is at a completely different stage and cannot be discussed together today, even though today there will be a second reading and only those amendments which will be tabled in the second reading may still be included in the government project, but this does not exclude the possibility that certain solutions from this social project of the Warsaw Insurgents Association and the Memorial Foundation will be possible. about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising introduce to the government project at the stage of the Senate's work, and to this day I strongly urge you to do so. It's procedurally obvious, possible. However, if this is not the case, there is nothing to prevent it from being modified in the future after the final adoption of this law. [[We're making adjustments.]] Mr Szczerba says that there are amendments, they will be tabled at second reading and, I understand, they will also refer to this social project. It is therefore possible for these social proposals to be taken into account in the work on this project, which is likely to be adopted, very possibly still at this meeting of the Sejm. Questions were raised on specific issues, e.g. to what extent participants of Poznań June 1956 will be included. In my opinion, this social project, which the committee has undertaken, creates such opportunities. If there are doubts, then they should be decided in determining what circle of people will be included in this database created in the IPN, i.e. the base of resting places of national heroes. It should be decided clearly there. The social project still has this unique value, that in my opinion it creates the conditions for protecting the resting places of people with different views and different political beliefs, as there were different people who were involved in the most important issue for them, in the matter of Poland, and as you can see in the circle of the fathers of independence, from the left to the right and vice versa, from Ignacy Daszyński, Ignacy Paderewski by Józef Piłsudski, Vincent Witos by Roman Dmowski and many others who took the highest risk to act and fight for Poland's regaining independence, as you can see in the tragic fate of Warsaw insurgents, then in the overwhelming majority of very young people who risked their young lives, gave - they gave to Poland. And I think it is important that, in this final form of this law, this objective of combining and building the foundations of the community is fully taken into account. I also think that this simple solution, which is also proposed in the social project, will be useful for this purpose, so that after a period of 2 years the President of the Institute of National Remembrance will provide the Sejm with information as to how the law is implemented, in so far as the solutions put in place are sufficient, whether people, especially people most interested, most involved, raise doubts, proposals for further modifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u324	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is a desirable action aimed at establishing a statutory regulation of the protection of the resting places of participants in the fight for sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Poland. This project is a reaction to the petition of the Warsaw Insurgents Association and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. The project meets the demands long formulated by the environments fighting to commemorate the character of the heroes. However, this is an excellent opportunity to return to the subject of the care of the graves of heroes of past times who lie in the graves of the family. The situation about which I informed, recalling an example of the catastrophic state of the grave of Gen. Mieczysław Poniatowski, indicates the current inability of the institutions of the Polish state. Does this regulation also provide the possibility for state authorities to act in such situations? What funds are transferred to implement the provisions of the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u326	The bill, with the initiative of the living veterans themselves, associated in the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and supporting their Foundation of Remembrance about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising, can only be assessed positively. The questioning of the need to take this initiative was simply unworthy, especially in the year of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. It is regrettable to say that although we celebrated this important anniversary less than three weeks ago, we are slowly forgetting about it, because the organizers did not care to commemorate it in a truly worthy way. Even the communists in 1966 on the 1000th anniversary of the Polish state were able to build a thousand schools, which mostly function to this day. And what will we leave to the posterity after the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence? Therefore, the bill on which we are proceeding is extremely valuable: after the anniversary of regaining freedom by Poland, at least properly cared for graves of patriots and heroes who have fought for this freedom for years.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u327	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Commission's draft law on ensuring the worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons worthy of the fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State, contained in print No. 2920, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland (prints No. 2902 and 3005). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At its previous meeting, the Sejm referred the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft and introducing several clarification and explanatory amendments on 20 November 2018, invites the High Sejm to adopt the draft law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u329	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Daniel Milewski, the Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The governmental bill on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland concerns the creation of records of graves of veterans of these fights located on the territory of the Republic of Poland and abroad, as well as the launch of financial support systems from public funds to care for the graves of veterans. Ladies and gentlemen! Generations of Poles and all nationalities living in the land of the present and former Republic of Poland offered the most precious gift on the altar of their homeland: their own life. Fortunately, many heroes managed to save their lives. Those who fought in regular formations, but also guerrilla troops, conspiracy. They are also victims of repression of invaders and invaders, tortured in prisons, camps and camps. All of them, even after their death, should be honored and honored, and future generations should cultivate their due memory. The independent Republic is obliged to show them such a memory and respect as their fallen comrades of arms. Therefore, as a Parliamentary Club, we support legislative work on this government project. We are positive about those issues that have been clarified and clarified at the previous committee meeting. We will continue to support this project. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u331	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a representative of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to meet the situation that is taking place. The point is that the government project is at a different level when it comes to legislative work. I would like to propose a very constructive solution to the House, the Minister, in the hope that it will be adopted. Namely, we hereby submit as a Civic Platform Club amendments to the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence, which contain all the proposals which were presented in the framework of the committee project for which the Warsaw Insurgents Association worked, as well as the foundation. We would like the government proposal, which is going in the right direction, to be extended to include all those issues which aim to ensure the dignified memory and protection of the resting places of those deserved in the fights for independence and sovereignty of the Polish state. First of all, as part of these amendments, which I am about to present to your marshal, we would like to give the President of the IPN the power to issue an administrative decision to ban the liquidation of the national hero's grave. Such a decision may be issued either of its own motion or at the reasoned request of the voivode, of other organisations. The cost of maintaining the grave, the liquidation of which has been prohibited, will in principle be borne by the state budget. The President of the IPN will also be able to communicate with local authorities, foundations or associations whose aim is to preserve a worthy memory of national heroes, and entrust them with the tasks involved. I would also like to propose in these amendments a solution, according to which all those who had the status of a combatant during their lifetime will be included in the records of the graves or included in their activity as a combatant. We would like this group to include all those who carried out during the war activities referred to in the Act on Combatants and Repressed Persons, including the Righteous Among the Nations, as well as the heroes of the Uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto. We'd like this catalog to be full. Another issue is the protection of the graves of national heroes, namely, there is no consent to insulting the graves of national heroes, to show contempt not only to the buried person, but also to the buried family. Therefore, we propose to increase the penalty for insulting the grave of such a person. All these amendments are a natural complement to the government project. We would like to see a comprehensive project coming out of the Sejm during the 100th anniversary of Polish independence in the jubilee year. He is in no way in breach of those provisions which have been proposed by the Government, these amendments only complement the government project with all the issues that have been raised by the applicants. I would like to stress very clearly that it is a good tradition for this House to adopt laws or to adopt resolutions on a cross-party basis. We had this situation - I would like to remind the High House very clearly about it - in September 2015, when the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the 2nd October Day of Remembrance on the Civil Uprising People of Warsaw. At that time, the High Chamber unanimously adopted this draft resolution. We would also like a full project to be adopted at this meeting, which will also show respect for applicants, to take into account all these requests for dignified memory and the protection of the resting places of the well-deserved [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the struggle for independence. Thank you very much, and I am making the amendments that have been mentioned on your hands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u333	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government's draft law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, print no. 2902. I presented the main arguments concerning the relevance of this law and the need for its implementation at the previous session of the Sejm. Poland owes its honor and respect to all those who for independent and sovereign Poland gave their health and life around the world. Their resting places should be kept in stock and protected with dignity. This year is a special occasion. The 100th anniversary of regaining independence should make us sensitive to these places, those necropolises on which the bodies of those who died in battles for independent Poland in 1918, including the Lviv Cemetery. This cemetery testifies not only to the Polishness of Lviv, but also to the heroism of its inhabitants fighting for their independence in 1918. It is also a cemetery of those who died in fights for free Poland in 1918 and 1920. The political situation has caused Lviv to be located outside the borders of the Polish state, but this is no reason to forget about the cemetery in Łyczak. This cemetery is not only a single tomb preserved on it, but also its general decor, including two stone lions that were once an integral part of the Column of the Monument of Glory. Today the statues are covered with boxes from the October board. This is undoubtedly the beginning of actions towards depreciating this necropolis in order to deprive it of Polish symbols, but also the destruction of the Polish tombs of victims of fighting for Polish independence. We are actually investigating the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland in the 100th anniversary of Lviv's defence. This is a good opportunity for the Polish government to intervene in the case of lions from the Lviv cemetery. It will also prove that the majority of the Sejm, when adopting this law, does not treat its matter PR, but has the courage to deal with matters that may be difficult, but are consistent with the letter and spirit of this law. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u335	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u336	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! In the justification of this project we read that the last 250 years of history Poland is a struggle for independence and its recovery. These fights have ended, as we know successfully, with the blood of heroes who spilled it and gave their lives for the freedom and independence of our country and of all Poles. Today we live in the dream country of our ancestors, grandparents and parents. We can worship and reward their sacrifice beautifully - from the festival, but we often miss the memory of those difficult times on a daily basis. We forget more and more that some of our national heroes still live among us, often in loneliness and difficult material situation. The care of cultivating memorial sites and taking care of graves is lost in complete oblivion. The current laws provide the possibility to eliminate the graves of people who participated in the fights for independence of the Polish state, including the resting places of the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. This possibility arises if the cemetery manager does not recognize the grave as a historical memorial, and by the date specified in the Act, the person is not ready to pay the cemetery fee, and these people, as we know, the family of our national heroes is getting less and less. Thus, having graves of many national heroes lies largely in the free recognition of the cemetery manager. This law is a gesture of the government, a good initiative, because it responds to the calls of the already outgoing environment, which is to change today's underprecise law on this issue. It is wider in its scope than the project submitted by the insurgents themselves, but unfortunately it does not contain many issues that were already discussed in previous readings, issues raised by the Warsaw insurgents' community itself, which know perfectly well how important memory and concern for graves and resting places are. In addition, the Act concerns only the graves of participants in the fight for freedom and independence of Poland. As regards the comments submitted, among others. by Mr Szczerba, thank you very much for these, I will not repeat this, but I will add that all the amendments tabled by the Member are fully supported by the Modern Parliamentary Club. As I pointed out during the reading of the previous project - submitted by the Warsaw insurgents, we still hope and believe that there will be a meeting on these two laws, that the best things will be selected from both projects and that there will be one law corresponding to the needs of all. In addition, I miss the concern for the so-called. memorial sites, of which there are thousands throughout Poland. Often they are forgotten places, which are devastating places that nobody cares about. Funds should also be earmarked for the renovation of such sites. In Warsaw itself there are more than 160 so-called. Thorek's memorial plaques that commemorate the scenes, victims of Nazi crimes. The inhabitants of Warsaw repeatedly ask us, Members, for financial support - it is the inhabitants who try to take care of these places - to keep these plates, to help in their renovation so that they do not destroy them. All over Poland we have many other places and plaques that require proper care. Therefore, I ask the government as a projector to take into account the solutions developed by the community of Warsaw insurgents in the form of a social bill in the Sejm, the print no. 2920, previously processed, as well as to include other memorial sites mentioned in it. Issues relating to the calculation of costs and sources of funding need to be refined, as can be seen from the calculation set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Act of 7 000. PLN was to be enough to repair or replace one monument, which seems to be a value far too small, even unreal. It would be necessary to assess this issue after a year or two, as has already been mentioned, the validity of the law. I think it will be a beautiful gift on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence - for all our national heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u337	Thank you. Mrs Pasławska made her statement in writing. So I ask Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland after work on this project in committee. Let me remind you that this project assumes that the Polish state will take care of all veterans' graves fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, regardless of whether they are in the territory or outside our country. In addition, a specific fund is also envisaged to finance grants to cover all or part of the costs of caring for such graves as well as their renovations. The President of the Institute of National Remembrance will be responsible for the creation and keeping of special records. During the work on this project, no amendments were made to the committee to change its original assumptions. So the solutions contained in it do not raise my doubts. I'm sure they'll only serve our society. I happen to meet with claims that the current rulers care more about our history than about our present or our future. However, in my opinion, in order to be able to create and manage a well-functioning and progressive developing country, none of these issues must be forgotten. We must be, and fortunately most of us are, proud that we are Poles. This pride is shown, among others. by caring for the memory of those who fought for our country, for it to be free and sovereign. Without this, without building our national consciousness, it will be difficult for us to ensure the sustainability of our national community. These regulations are, therefore, in my opinion, fulfilling not only the expectations of the veteran environments and families, but also all for whom the good of Poland is important. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the presented project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u339	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform, will be asked as the first question. Time -1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions first of all for the Minister. Tomorrow, like I said, at hours. 8.30 a meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights will be held in room 102 to examine the amendments I tabled to the High House. The question is very simple, Minister, and I ask them in the presence of the applicants - the Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising: Is it the will of the government to make these amendments which are legitimate, because nevertheless they concern the protection of veterans graves, accept? Will we be able to count on the support of the government in this matter? The second case concerns costs. You assume that the expenditure of the state budget will not amount to more than PLN 5 million. Shouldn't this amount be higher in the following years, when there's already the right experience [[♪ The bell ♪]] on renovation and grants in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u341	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Marcin Święcicki. There isn't. Then Mr Piotr Pyzik. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask if the proposed project provides for funds that are intended outside the construction, maintenance and registration of graves also for research and search for unknown resting places for veterans fighting for freedom and independence. The collective memory of local communities often preserved traces indicating certain places where the soldiers of September 39 or guerrillas had to rest. The Institute of National Remembrance, of course, is gradually verifying these stories within its capabilities. However, I think that the bones of almost forgotten heroes, especially those of September, demand greater commitment from us. I would also ask, by the way, whether agreements concerning the maintenance of veterans' graves and heroes will be able to include, among others. educational establishments, making such care permanent elements of the education of their pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u343	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I assume that in terms of the protection of the resting places of people who deserved in the fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish state there is no political rivalry, and the separation of both projects that we are investigating today was accidental and unintentional. I would definitely like to strengthen the voice of my colleague Michael Honestby on the issues of the solutions he presented, because it seems that these two projects create a coherent, good whole. As regards the inclusion of these amendments, I would particularly like to emphasise the issue of protection against re-buying, which is very important. That's not on your project. There is a register, but only funds are derived from this register for maintenance, for revitalization of these places, but there is no means, there is no way to bring the grave to a place where it will be maintained. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the fact that it will be protected and that it will be borne by charges to maintain it. I call for these issues to be taken into account in the course of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u345	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the Act obliges the voivodships to inform the President of the IPN about the discovery of the grave, which in his view can be regarded as a grave of a veteran fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, I would like to ask whether assistance in this matter was also considered for ambassadors of the Republic of Poland, so that they too are obliged to inform immediately about the graves in the countries where our offices are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u347	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm referring to the questions that have been asked here in this courtroom. The first question and as part of a permanent club speech, and as part of the parliamentary questions, you asked Mr Szczerbo from the Civic Platform. Mr. Speaker! The Commission gathers as far as I know, tomorrow at 3 p.m. 8:30. I can't declare anything without a detailed analysis of the amendments. I wanted to say one thing: the government law is a system and it is comprehensive. I'm not going to tell you at this point whether it's possible or justified that the mechanical incorporation of records from the commission project is possible or justified. We will analyze these records and convey our position in this regard. There is one thing I do not fully understand in your speech, sir, because there is a suggestion that the government project should be supplemented by the graves of the heroes of the uprising in the ghetto. I do not understand why you seem to claim that their graves are excluded from the provisions of this law. I do not see such a threat, I do not see such a provision that would exclude the graves of the heroes of the uprising in the ghetto from the privileges provided for by the law, sir. The purpose of this law is that it concerns the heroes of armed combat or the political leadership of armed combat. As far as those who helped Poles are concerned, their graves are not provided for in the provisions of this Act. Remember that. There's no difference when it comes to nationality. More questions. Mr Pyzik asked a question about taking into account the costs of research. Mr. Speaker! The costs that are foreseen and indicated in the clause, in the Financial Regulation, also concern the handling of applications and ex officio proceedings, i.e. that IPN will also spend on such research work as you mentioned in your speech as part of the initiation of proceedings ex officio. Will grave care contracts be allowed to include educational establishments? Absolutely. The law provides for a very wide range of subject matter here. Organizational units without legal personality, if the law gives them legal capacity, will be able to benefit from the provisions of this law, also in a financial sense. Mr Wilczyński asked for protection from re-buying. Mr President, I understand the provisions of the Act in the sense that these cash benefits can also be paid to cover the cemetery fee, so I think the answer to your concerns here is this financial benefit. Mr Gonciusz asked about the graves of people located outside Poland. The law here is very precise and provides for an obligation to carry out such activities, not by ambassadors, of course, but by consuls of the Republic of Poland, and this is a clear indication of the law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Please accept my explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u349	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u350	Dear Marshal, On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I support the adoption of a government bill on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. On the 100th anniversary of regaining sovereignty, it is our duty to specially honor the memory of people who paid the highest prices for dreams of a free country. Also those less well-known, as actively fighting the Germanization of activists of the Mazury People's Party, which are far too rarely spoken of today. Each of the fighters who died in the years 1768 and 1963 had a greater or less contribution to regaining independence, each one should be remembered and respected. We therefore support the intention that the National Remembrance Institute will deal with the graves of the state veterans, and their protection will be properly financed and structured. Especially since it will probably be the only initiative that will be remembered for years after the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Polish independence. At least we can resurrect the memory of Polish patriots, heroes. Members of the club PSL - ED are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u351	As amendments to the proposed bill were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Following the second reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, item 15. of the agenda: The report of the committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court became unobtrusive. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents (prints No. 2992 and 3012). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on disclosure of documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs for first reading on 7 November 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 20 November 2018 request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. I would like to add that at first reading this project was supported by an excellent majority of committee members, both from the governing party and from the opposition. It's a long-lost phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u353	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joann Lichock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm just looking to see if I have any of those documents on me that... Yes, I do. The point is, we're gonna make some adjustments. Of course, Law and Justice support this bill. It's obvious. A law that will finally lead to a certain order, both as regards matters of security and sovereignty of Polish diplomacy, and as regards ethical issues. Until now, only members of the foreign service have been subject to the mirroring obligation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, as you know very well, according to the current law, that someone declared in the mirror declaration that he had cooperated or was an employee of the communist repression apparatus, in no way prevented him from working in the diplomacy of free Poland. It seems that this situation is difficult to accept from both the point of view of security and the sovereignty of this policy. After all, we know that the communist special forces of the Polish People's Republic also had their superiors in Moscow and both their work cards, documents and various sensitive information can be available at least for Russian special services. But it is also a matter of ethical order, moral order. If we have a free state, non-communist, sovereign, then we should not agree that the diplomats of this country, foreign service workers, embassies, employees of subordinate MFA institutions, expert institutes should be stained by cooperation with communist special services. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1991 I have been a journalist who has always repeated and waited for this - to be honest, there are probably a lot of millions of Poles in Poland who are waiting for this - so that finally in the most important places in Polish politics, in the Polish government, government administration there are no people tainted with work in the apparatus of repression of the Polish People's Republic. I hope that this bill will finally lead to such a situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We want to make amendments to clarify the scope of this law and how it is implemented and appeal to all parliamentary clubs - built by the fact that the opposition had no doubt on the point of supporting this project - to support this law, so that we can promote it without obstacles. Thank you very much. Here are the adjustments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u355	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Krzykala, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u356	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990, print No 2992. The aim of the project is, according to the applicants, to extend the obligation to submit a illustrative statement to all categories of employees employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and institutions and bodies supervised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and consequently to terminate the employment relationship with all employees who have made a positive illustrative statement within 2 months. According to the applicants, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, those who started working for the PRL security apparatus before 1990 may not be more than 100. It should be added that one of the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office casts doubts on the basis of this calculation, since the obligation to make a illustrative statement has not so far been applicable to all persons subordinate to the Foreign Minister. This is not the only error in the justification of the project. For example, in point 7, where the principle of free movement of workers is referred to, applicants refer to Article. 39 (1) (a) 4 of the Treaty on European Union. Meanwhile, art. 39 concerns the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. Perhaps applicants were concerned with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but there was Article. 39 describes the objectives of the common agricultural policy. It is also regrettable that at the meeting of the committee the applicants were not able to clearly justify the answers and resolve the doubts raised by the Office for Sejm Analysis as to whether such a way of putting out the employment relationship as proposed by the law is compatible with national law. Despite the issue of urgency and sloppy legislation regarding the implementation of this project - perhaps they wanted to cover diplomatic failures, such as the last scandalous statement by Ambassador Przyłębski from Berlin, nicknamed TW Wolfgang, who, in the light of the proposed law, hopefully will lose his job - the Civic Platform Club will support this project. At the same time, we are aware that this solution is now symbolic and has no impact on the shape of the current foreign policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u357	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. In that case, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. If this project were refined, it should be said that it is better late than never, but it is not. For almost 30 years of the existence of a democratic state of the Polish Republic Poland could not eliminate people associated with the so-called camera from foreign service. the security of the People's Poland, a communist state directly subordinate to the Soviets. Let me remind you, this camera is so-called. The security of the People's Poland was obliged to send to Moscow all its files and there are documents in the archives of the Kremlin that show the dependence of many people from the current Polish political candlestick on international centres of power. I would also like to remind you that in the foreign service or in the bodies associated with it, there have been people such as TW Carex, TW Buyer, TW, Must, TW, Ralf and TW Wolfgang. Some of them even served as Foreign Minister. The act under investigation prevents or cooperates with persons who worked in the organs of the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland listed in the act of illustration in the foreign service. It is particularly important here to cooperate as a negative indication for hiring mentioned in the project. To date, there has been a bad rule that it is enough to admit to this cooperation. It didn't eliminate work in foreign service. From a legal point of view, this may give rise to a certain danger. Persons exempted from foreign service because of their admission to such cooperation and to work in so-called bodies. The security of the People's Republic of Poland, which had not been threatened before, will be able, as it seems, to appeal to the courts and receive compensation for this. And it doesn't matter that these people aren't really going to be much. In order to remove this possibility, it would be necessary to amend the illusory act. In general, the disclosure of work in the communist security bodies or cooperation with them cannot be an excuse. This issue of disclosure is a bad thing. Unfortunately, this has been the case and is still the case in many areas of public life. All you have to do is admit to this disgraceful step in your resume to purify yourself of this blemish. And yet the service in these bodies and cooperation with them meant accepting political commitments and acting against democratic and sovereign Poland. This fact can be used today to harm the interests of the Polish state by various international centres. A case which is not solved by the current project and which should be resolved unambiguously is the adoption of a decision that persons who have so far withheld or cooperated with the communist authorities will be threatened with criminal penalties. The problem which once again arises with such laws introduced by the Law and Justice is that the PiS cannot or does not want to completely break away from the legacy of the People's Poland. It chooses areas of public life in which it wants to make changes for itself comfortable, but it does not serve Poland. Illustration procedures had to be extended to the whole area of the public life of free Poland. No less important than foreign service, whose notabene effects, as the political reality of the world shows, are miserable... Other areas should also be covered by this illustrative procedure: energy, communication, telecommunications, media, the arms industry, raw materials and finance. The problem is also that the current law of illustration is evil and does not cover other authorities of repression of the People's Republic of Poland: courts, prosecutors' offices or higher levels of communist Polish United Workers' Party, which authorities in principle never represented the Polish state, represented the power-makers in Moscow. Persons working in these institutions, e.g. Judge Iwulski, prosecutor Piotrowicz, perform important public functions today, which is evidently immoral, but also politically harmful. Once a slave, this slave will remain forever. The issue of the elimination of temporary or permanent persons involved in cooperation with the apparatus of repression or those working in the apparatus of repression should be dealt with systematically, starting with a revision of the act of illustration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not too late, but it's definitely the last bell.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u359	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u360	Despite these criticisms, Kukiz15 is in favour of further proceding this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u361	Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern One, I would like to express my position on the draft law proposed by the Group of Members of the Law and Justice on Foreign Services. Firstly, it is certainly an incomparably better law than the government's draft law on foreign service, which is in the Sejm, which is a draft law - proposed by the government a few months ago - basically liquidated foreign service and in an absolutely unconstitutional manner dissolved employment contracts with all persons employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Service in order to make an absolute staff purge. This law is very short and has two essential elements. The first relates to the extension of the catalogue of persons who are obliged to make illustrative statements. The second element concerns the termination by law of contracts concluded with all persons who have made such statements, so to speak, in the affirmative. As for the first item, we have no doubts and there is no problem with that. In fact, it would be good for the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Director-General to know what employees work in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially since there all information will be given in the illustrative statements, specifically who worked in the department and what kind of person he was. As for the second element, i.e. the termination of contracts by law, we have doubts and these are doubts of two kinds. First of all, it's a legal defect. Well, the Office of Sejm Analysis has made it very clear that firstly, the records are incompatible with the current law of illustration, and secondly, that this exposes the Republic of Poland to a number of legal consequences, i.e. persons who will sue Poland because their employment relations have been extinguished by such law will most likely win these trials under the applicable law and, in addition, possible actions in tribunals will also result in such solutions. Therefore, we should not adopt solutions that have some legal disadvantages on their part. Secondly, I am absolutely a very hot proponent of cleaning up and looting all those who are responsible for reporting, for surveillance, for fighting against those who fought for free Poland, but in this particular case it is about 100 people, and I believe that these people should be expelled, but - in accordance with the law in force today - by decision of the Director-General. The banishment of all contracts by law of all persons, regardless of their function in the special services until July 1990, is merely an attempt at political revenge. I'll give you two examples. I hope you understand the difference between the man who was monitoring the opposition, reporting, reporting, being a secret collaborator and an officer of Polish intelligence. I would like to say to you that, under this law, a person such as the creator of GROM General Petelicki - if Mr Brynus believes that he had a lifetime of powermakers elsewhere and in no way deserved Poland, I disagree with you - would be expelled from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even if he were a perfect ambassador in the United States, say. Those who carried out the operation "Samum" were fundamental in terms of building our international position at the beginning of the 1990s. - it was incredibly important - but they were in the special forces. We do not give ourselves any opportunity to think about whether a person is needed in Poland and should perform a role, and what role he played over the 20 years, and we put them all in the same bag, placing them on equal footing with people who were absolutely criminals. I take it from the fact that you approach the settlement with the Polish People's Republic selectively, because the face of your various laws is the man who sentenced people in war or accused people in war, and your Deputy Minister of Justice, Deputy Minister in the Government of Jarosław Kaczyński, was Judge Kryże, who handed down sentences for 11 November, while your Member is Piotrowicz. If you want to account with the Polish People's Republic, start with each other. We are against this law because of its legal disadvantages and unilaterality.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u363	Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to stress that my club will support this law, although, in fact, when it comes to opinions about it, such as Prof. Piotrowski, it raises a number of doubts about the mode of release. Perhaps, in fact, the amendments that Mrs Lichock is proposing today on behalf of the PiS Club will remove these legal shortcomings, so we will look at them with curiosity, but in general, in principle, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u365	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present our position on amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The proposed bill regulates issues that should be clarified in Polish almost clearly. The scandal is that, after all these years, persons serving or working in security bodies or collaborating with them represent Poland in its foreign policy. The introduction of an obligation of illustration extended to all categories of workers employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in Polish foreign offices, as well as entities supervised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, appointed on the basis of separate regulations, seems to be not only an activity expected by the environment, which has suffered communist repression, but also all for whom the welfare of the country is the highest value. Finally, after years of enslavement, we regain a substitute for normality. Therefore, we should strive to settle all those who acted to the detriment of the Polish state. The bill is intended to ensure that people associated with that communist apparatus of power are not able to work in the structures of government administration. Such provisions of the Act are consistent with common knowledge about communism in Poland and social expectation. What is worth pointing out, these provisions are not an exception in the Polish law system, but duplicate existing solutions. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill under review and will vote in favour of further, as soon as possible, proceeding over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u367	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will be the first question to be asked. One minute, ma'am. Mr. Peter Pyzik, are you asking a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u368	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the negative condition of employment in the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not to serve in the bodies of totalitarian security, non-sovereign creation of the state under the Soviet Union, then what is it? Only a statement remains, why only now, after almost 30 years of the Soviets in the structures of free Poland diplomacy, we can finally adopt the necessary law, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u369	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign service is a public area which is particularly sensitive due to the sovereignty of the Polish state. Therefore, people with flawless biographies should work in it. How will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs verify whether the persons concerned were not secretly co-workers of the security services of the People's Republic of Poland, since the practice so far shows that it is difficult for them to prove that they were, as evidenced by the preserved files at the Institute of National Remembrance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u371	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u372	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question for the Minister. Namely, I wanted to ask whether this bill includes Ambassador Andrzej Przyłębski as well. Is he going to lose his job as a secret associate named Wolfgang by virtue of this bill? And is the Ministry already looking for a successor to replace him? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u373	The question is now asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! It is a pity that we have so little time to ask questions, because this matter is extremely important. I will answer you, sir. He will not lose because the judgment of the Constitutional Court in matters of secret co-workers is so terrible that it would really have to be proved that it was because of the reports, etc. Someone really lost his life to consider him a secret co-worker. Then it won't work. But I have a question. The problem is, Mr Szłapka, that one should learn to understand the relationship between the so-called. Polish interview of the Polish People's Republic and Soviet services. Without GRU's decision, Polish intelligence wouldn't even write. Everything that was in this interview happened with the GRU's consent. And the problem is that today many areas of public life are simply devouring such oligarchic-mafia cancer because people who are present in public life have ties to the apparatus of repression. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People's Poland. When will the Mirror Act change to eliminate it? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And that is the problem that you cannot understand this important law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u375	Thank you very much, ma'am. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As to why now, I don't think I'm competent to answer that question. It would seem that the answers would have been given to those who had had the opportunity before and did not have such a bill. As regards the answer to the question of exclusion of individuals, e.g. I would point out that this law does not provide for any exemptions. This law covers all persons who are subject to its rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u377	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990, as well as the content of these documents, provides for an extension of the obligation to submit a mirror statement to which so far only members of the Foreign Service are subject, to all categories of employees employed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in Polish foreign offices, as well as to units supervised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs appointed on the basis of separate provisions. A positive illustrative statement is intended to constitute a negative condition for employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In my view, this is of all intents and purposes, after all, the work or service of state security bodies or cooperation with them in 1944 and 1990 was extremely negative. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that the amendment of the Act will result in about 100 people. I have a question about the effects of the last year's amendment of the law on members of the foreign service on the same issue, i.e. negative grounds for employment in case of positive illustrative statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u379	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee for the presentation of the report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the R &amp; D report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and the Law on forests (prints No 2998 and 3003). I ask Mr Mieczysław Miazga to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u380	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I am pleased to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 and the Forests Act 2998 and 3003. The proposed amendments aim, in particular, at shortening and simplifying the selection and payment process as well as taking into account changes to the Rural Development Programme in the legal system. Proposals for amendments to the Forest Act are a consequence of changes introduced in the above mentioned law. Act on adding sub-measures: Support for investments to enhance the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value. Amendments to Article 1 is the consequence of the adoption of a resolution of the Monitoring Committee for the Rural Development Programme, which was approved by an implementing decision of the European Commission. On the other hand, on the basis of the article. The sub-measure referred to in the Regulation of the European Parliament is currently being implemented under point 8 of the amended law. Thus, the proposed amendments to the law allow the launch of another forest sub-action. Specific conditions and modalities for granting support under sub-measures: Support for investments enhancing the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value will be set out in the Regulation of the Minister responsible for rural development issued on the basis of authorisation. Legal regulations will be similar to those laid down for sub-measures: Support for forestry and the creation of wooded areas. Support under the sub-action will be granted on the basis of an aid application, by means of an administrative decision issued by the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. The amendment will also allow farmers who have completed their postgraduate studies in the field of a particular specialisation in accordance with separate regulations, without the need to complete the training carried out by the Agricultural Advisory Centre based in Brwinów and the examination carried out by the Director. In addition, the proposed changes by simplifying and speeding up the evaluation of operations and the payment of funds to the partner of the National Rural Network will improve the whole selection process of operations under the competition and the reimbursement of the costs incurred to those partners for the operation. During the meeting on 20 November this year. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held a substantive discussion on this project at first reading. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the draft law presented, advocates it and asks the honourable House to adopt it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u381	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report on the draft law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Law on Forests, prints No 2998 and 3003. The proposed amendments include, in particular, the introduction of a new sub-action in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs as a consequence of the adoption of a resolution of the November 2017 RDP Monitoring Committee on Changes in Action: Investments in forest development and improving forest viability. A new sub-measure has been introduced in the programme: Support for investments to enhance the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value. The new sub-measure will be implemented in accordance with the principles established for the existing action: Support for forestation and the creation of wooded land, which provides for a one-off payment for the cost of establishment, in accordance with Regulation 1305. According to the proposed changes in the Forest Forest Act, at the request of the owner of the land intended for the implementation of investments enhancing the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value, he shall draw up a plan for this investment and confirm its implementation in accordance with that plan. The proposed changes make it possible to prepare investment plans to enhance the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value for applicants under the new forest sub-measures. The revision of the programme should be assessed as important for the consolidation of the effects of land deforestation so far. Further changes relate to the way in which the action is implemented: Transfer of knowledge and information activities to which the provisions of the Public Procurement Law will apply when the beneficiaries are selected. A similar scheme exists already in operation: Advisory services, farm management services and substitution services, therefore the proposed change is not a new solution. The provisions introduced will not apply to aid applications submitted under the first edition of competitions not yet completed in 2017. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 9 of the proposed law proposes an amendment aimed at making the provision more flexible to take into account both recent changes to European Union legislation and possible future changes to the obligation for Member States to define criteria for selecting operations under specific actions or sub-measures. The proposed provision is of a regular nature and makes direct reference to the European Union's rules - directly applicable. An important change is to allow agricultural advisors who have completed their postgraduate studies in the field of a particular specialisation, without having to complete the training carried out by the Agricultural Advisory Centre and pass the examination carried out by the Centre's Director. Postgraduate studies in a particular specialisation conducted by research institutes or universities cover a sufficiently wide range of knowledge in their programme that they have been considered sufficient to achieve a particular specialisation. The last important area of change is to simplify and accelerate the evaluation of operations and the payment of funds to the partner of the National Rural Network. According to the current procedure, tasks related to e.g. with the selection of the national network partners' operations carried out at national level and the payment of funds for the implementation of those operations shall be divided between the unit authorised to act as a central unit, i.e. The Agricultural Advisory Centre in Brwinów and the Managing Authority, which is the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. This division of tasks between two institutions means that the process of selecting operations, concluding contracts for their implementation and the payment of funds is significantly extended, which adversely affects the timing of the operation by the national partner of the network and extends the deadline for reimbursement of the costs incurred by the partner. The change consists in assigning responsibility for the implementation of the whole process of one institution, i.e. Center for Agricultural Advisory in Brwinów, as a central unit. The main advantages of the proposed solution are: speeding up the payment and return of funds to the national network partner and simplifying the mode and shortening the timing of the selection of operations. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of the bill, will vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u383	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u384	...for the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u385	Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government's draft Parliamentary Print Act No 2998 introduces provisions aimed at shortening and simplifying the selection process of operations submitted by competition by the partners of the National Rural Network to the national unit and the payment of financial resources for the implementation of these operations to the partners. The draft law amends the legal system of the Rural Development Programme for 2014 and 2020 and the Forests Act. On the basis of the proposed provisions, a new forest sub-measure is introduced under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 to support investment in private forests. Thanks to this sub-measure, we achieve greater resilience and environmental value of forest ecosystems. Sub-measures are envisaged: Investments in forest development and improving the viability of forests in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs of approximately EUR 30 million over 10 years. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that these solutions do not affect the public finance sector and that the transfer from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to the Agricultural Advisory Centre will not affect the structure of employment. Then, Minister, we ask: How will the new tasks be carried out at the Agricultural Advisory Centre? It is estimated that there will be an increase in the target grant for the Brewinow Agricultural Advisory Centre, which is expected to amount to around EUR 14.5 million in the years 2019 to 2023 and thus until the end of this financial perspective. I would like to ask the question: Will it be funds allocated from the state budget or from the Rural Development Programme? We would also like to ask the Minister whether he can set the limits for the financial resources available under the technical assistance of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 until the end of the programme, i.e. until 2023. How many employees of the Agricultural Advisory Center will support this sub-measure? We do not obtain information from the draft law: firstly, how many beneficiaries will benefit from this law; secondly, how many hectares of agricultural land will be forested; thirdly, what environmental effects Poland is expected to achieve as a result of the implementation of the law; fourthly, whether the Agricultural Advisory Centre has enough experts, advisors who, in cooperation with the beneficiaries, will implement the provisions of that law. Minister, I ask you to answer our doubts. We understand that the bill is expected by the environment and by interested farmers themselves, while on behalf of my club, the Civic Platform Club, I would like to propose an amendment to this bill. The aim is to ensure that the benefits of the law are also covered by the forests that were affected by the storm disaster in 2017. That's it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u387	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the draft of this law as a project to simplify this, which is intended to resolve these doubts, reduce the administrative burden and red tape, as a Kukiz club15 we are very much in favour of this project because of the deregulations it introduces. As a club we are in favour of simple law, we are in favour of supporting such projects in such situations. If we are already on the subject of deregulation and simplification, I would like to ask the Minister for proposals, it is about compensation for farmers affected by tobacco companies. From this point on, I would like to thank Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, for the initiative to sign these documents and take an interest in the matter. I was still dealing with this case as city councilman in Proszowice and later with Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel. I would also like to say, bearing in mind the KNF scandal, that there are scandals that are taking place somewhere in the lockdown of the cabinet, and that, with the cooperation of the opposition with the ruling party, it is possible to bring about a happy ending, and I am very happy about it. It's gonna be 80%. money paid to these farmers, that is about PLN 15 million. The only thing I would like to ask the Minister for is that there are already proposals for farmers, because the documents are signed, the money is already secured and there are no requests. Farmers come to the parliamentary offices in areas where tobacco is grown and ask when these applications will occur. They're already impatient about whether it's a campaign issue, and we know it's not, because the regulation was signed by the Prime Minister. That's why we're explaining that we have to wait. According to the Ministry, the agency has to wait, possibly even by the end of the year. So that we would ask that there be a deadline for these proposals, even information on the website, then farmers would be calm about the money. Another case because you are Minister Romanowski. I would like to mention that farmers in Łosiów in the Opole Voivodeship, where we were together at the meeting, ask for another such meeting with the Minister and Minister Ardanowski. If that's possible, I would ask very much for a deadline, because I would very much like to attend this meeting. I hope that this will be a substantive meeting, with a view to estimating drought losses, because we know very well that farmers have suffered there, and it turns out that for various formal reasons this money will not be paid to them. I think, as with tobacco claims, we can sit together and help these farmers, because that's what this is all about. It's not about warming up the atmosphere, it's about serving farmers and all those who are hurt together in a good tone. Thank you very much. As Kukiz,15 we support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u389	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa made his statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u390	Minister! The Act envisages supporting investments in forest development and improving forest viability in the framework of the RDP sub-actions: support for forestry and the creation of green areas. This sub-action is dedicated to private individuals. The question is whether or not the ground communities. We've got a few thousand, over 100,000. ha is in these communities. That's the first question. The second point that is drawn here is that in which area it will be possible to intervene, a little bit beyond the statutory matter, and entering into the area of the RDP, in which area, because we know that this support can be given de facto from 10 a, and we know that in order to conduct rational forest management, you need larger areas. And here is the question, the issue of the consolidation and functioning of the ground communities of a completely new type, where it would be possible to rationally conduct forest management in areas that fell out of agricultural production and have now been transformed into different types of forests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] through plant succession.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u391	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendments proposed in the Act should contribute to improving support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. Hence my question: What about the compensation? Why do Polish farmers have fewer than German farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u393	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask, when do you from PiS show your true face? When you attack the European Union, do you enjoy using this money, proof of the law that we are working today to support rural development involving the European Agricultural Fund? When, a few months ago, the MEPs voted against the resolution in the European Parliament, a resolution that would limit cuts for Polish farmers? Only because the PiS state voted against the good, against the interests of our farmers, that the initiative had members of the Civic Platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u395	The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether, in connection with the introduction of a new forest sub-action on investments to enhance the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value, the Ministry provides adequate support for the county offices of restructuring agencies and the modernisation of agriculture. Is it possible to increase the burden on new proposals and is the current scale of employment sufficient to avoid an unintended negative impact on the handling of other procedures and applications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u397	Thank you. The question is asked by Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In this bill we amend the Forest Act. There is a record that, at the request of the land owner, a forest plan is being drawn up. It also sets out a plan for the implementation of investments to enhance the resilience and environmental value of forest ecosystems and confirms the implementation of this plan. I have a question to ask the Minister: Are adequate funds foreseen for the preparation of these plans and confirmation of their implementation? And another question: What amount is planned for 2019 as regards the implementation of the projects under the Act that we discussed today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u399	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the High Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has noted, this is a simple scheme of legislation regulating the simplification of procedures, in particular the procedures of the central institution of the National Rural Network. To date, the formal evaluation has been carried out at the centre of agricultural advisory, in the central unit, while the substantive evaluation has been carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. This scheme is simplified. The Central Unit will carry out this assessment, which will shorten the time taken to examine the beneficiaries' application in the National Rural Network. These areas are currently registered over 2300. You can register at: ksow.pl. There, all applications submitted for individual competitions can be reviewed on an ongoing basis, as well as the ways in which these proposals can be implemented. These are really very transparent methods for the National Rural Network. As regards the question of handling, Mr Plocke pointed out that there were no additional resources for public finances, that there would be no additional burdens. These measures will, of course, be carried over within the limits of technical assistance from the 2014-2020 programmes. In 2019 11.5 million will be transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, from technical assistance to an agricultural advisory centre. It's about 800,000 a year for service. zł. This assessment concerns about ten or eleven employees, so there will be no slightest problem with the measures. By the end of 2022 approximately 14.5 million are planned for the service of these competitions, and by the middle of 2023 - i.e. until the end of the perspective - about 7 million PLN. The limits will, of course, be laid down in the Regulation of the Minister responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development. As far as land communities are concerned, I will answer logically: this is foreseen on private land. On the other hand, for a detailed reply, we will give it in writing. As to the compensation of direct payments, I would like to say that Mr Ardanowski, as Mr Ardanowski himself pointed out, was at the last meeting of AGRIFISH on 19 November. He once again raised the issue of stopping the reasons for why direct payments are not equal for all beneficiaries in the European Union. There are no more reasons. He therefore once again raised the issue of equalisation of direct payments in the presence of Commissioner Hogan. As regards the preparation of the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the agency is prepared for recruitment, for additional action, so there will be no additional problems. The Agency will meet these challenges without a single problem. On the other hand, on the other hand, on Mr Bąk's question, I would like to say that the Minister responsible for the environment did not call for additional resources in relation to the State Forests. As regards those plans, which will be approved and monitored in the case of these investments, this was not taken into account in the OSR, no additional comments from the Minister responsible for the environment were made. I return to Mrs Chmiel's question when there is a real face. Your Marshal, if you'll excuse me, I'd prefer not to respond. [[Don't say anything.]] [[You weren't supposed to respond, you were supposed to answer the question.]] I think that the European Parliamentarians of the Civic Platform have discussed the Polish state a lot more than once. Therefore, I will leave this without comment. Thank you very much. [[You were supposed to answer questions, not make opinions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u401	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am honoured to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Forests Act, print No 2998. The draft law introduces a number of solutions leading to shortening and simplifying the project selection process through a competition by the partners of the National Rural Network and the payment of funds to these partners. The amendment is also linked to the addition of support for sub-measures in the RDPs: investments to enhance the resilience of forest ecosystems and their environmental value. The regulations adopted are similar to the existing support for other sub-measures: Forestry and the creation of wooded areas. In view of the above, the Posel Club The modern one is in favour of further work on the above mentioned. The bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u403	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Feed (prints No. 2997 and 3004). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u404	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present to the High House a report of this committee on the draft law, in print No. 2997 and 3004. This is a government project, which concerns, in short, the extension of the deadline to 1 January 2021 of the entry into force of the prohibition on the production, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of feedingstuffs which are produced inter alia. on the basis of genetically modified organisms. In the case of the topic we are talking about when it comes to Poland, but not only because it concerns all European countries, it is about soya, protein obtained from soya. It is a plant which naturally does not exist, it is not produced virtually on a large scale in Poland or in the European Union, because in order to produce well-balanced energy and protein feed, it is also needed in the structure of the feed produced, and it is unfortunately available on the world markets practically and exclusively as a product for which human interference is and which is genetically modified. This bill, print 2997, is a short project, two articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 Government proposes to include a provision which is an obligation of the Minister responsible for Agriculture to develop a plan for the use of national protein sources and to minimise the deficit of feed protein in animal nutrition for the extraction of feed protein from national sources. It is an important provision that mobilises and obliges the Minister to carry out widely understood and extensive research work, which would aim to use in Poland these protein crops, which are grown in Poland, such as lubics or beaver or other protein crops, to use protein from these plants in the production of feed based on national sources. It is not an easy topic, it has been discussed in Poland for many years and today we do not have balanced on the basis of domestic feed protein products in animal nutrition. Therefore, in order not to disrupt what is good in Polish breeding, which is a big achievement, for example in the production, poultry or pig farming, there is a need to supplement this protein with just the protein of plants that are imported to Poland, mainly American soybeans. However, in order not to say that there is an indefinite time to complete this work started a few years ago, it is proposed to extend the deadline which I mentioned at the beginning of this memorandum by 2 years until 1 January 2021 and that the law should enter into force on 1 January of the coming year, i.e. 2019. In this way, there will be no gap in the regulations that have so far been in force in Poland. Let me remind you that in the previous amendment of the law that took place in 2018... [[In 2016, the Council ……]] ...in 2016, I'm sorry, yes, we extended this period of prohibition by two years. Turns out it was too short, which is why the government is performing to extend this period by another two years. Therefore, High Izbo, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which took place yesterday, on 20 November, the government presented this draft law, had a broad discussion on the records. Although it's only two articles, I think we talked about it for three hours. There was a broad discussion, there were various proposals for writing these two articles, but as a result, as I said, the committee held a discussion and a vote not unanimously, but by a majority brings to the High House a draft law about which at this moment... [[There was one amendment.]] ...I say, he's been voted out by the High House. This is a draft without the amendments attached, although indeed the discussion at the committee meeting was... [[There was a vote on the amendment.]] ...but the committee requests that the project be passed... [[We voted on the amendment, Mr President.]] I am talking about the fact that there has been an amendment, but it has not received the recognition of the majority and the committee is asking the High House to adopt the draft print law No 2997 in the original text, in the text from this print. Thank you very much, Marshal, and I would like to have a discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u405	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jan Duda, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Feed, contained in print No 2997. High Izbo! Poland is one of the leading producers of feed. It is also the leader in specialist products used in the feeding of poultry and pigs in Europe. This is done mainly on the basis of imported raw materials. I mean mainly soy buckwheat, which is imported primarily from Latin American countries. The domestic production of soya is small and currently does not have a significant share in the overall production of feed in Poland. The EU ban on the use of protein of animal origin in animal nutrition has led soy to be the basic high protein component of feed at present. At this stage, the production volume of domestic legumes, which would be an alternative to imported soya buckwheat, is far from sufficient to meet the needs of the feed industry and, consequently, the need for feed in domestic poultry, beef and pig production, which is the basis for positive economics in the agricultural sector. This does not mean that solutions should not be sought - it is about independence from imported soy buckwheat - and this is done by the Ministry of Agriculture. Firstly, the multi-annual programme to increase the production and use of national feed protein - the development of the crops of bobidae, yellow tuber, in general legumes - aims to improve the feed balance in conjunction with the national production of plant protein. Research and breeding activities are slowly beginning to produce results. The share of soya in feed, which accounted for 80%, is falling the weight and at present represents around 60%. The area of protein crops in the country is increasing. Secondly, cultivation of non-GMO soybeans. Advanced work is underway to introduce soy varieties that produce good results on our soils and in our climate conditions. Thirdly, it is about increasing the use of rape products. On 1 October 2018, on the initiative of the Minister for Agriculture, an agreement was signed between the National Council of Poultry - Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Producers of Rat and Protein Plants on joint actions aimed at increasing the use of national protein in poultry nutrition. Fourthly, the Agriculture Minister has also set up a Panel on Agriculture. alternative protein sources. These efforts by the Ministry of Agriculture are aimed at improving the balance of the production of feed with the use of plant protein of national origin. This action is also economic in nature. Polish farmers will be able to make money in the production of raw materials. It is also very important to gradually become independent from external suppliers, which are often transnational companies that monopolise the protein plant market. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To see the effect of these actions, you need time. The replacement of soya with vegetable protein of national origin must be gradual but progressive. There can be no room for action that could reduce the production of feed, and what this entails is the collapse of animal production - poultry, cattle, cattle - in the country and the situation that we would become an importer of poultry meat, which is currently the basis of a protein diet in Poland. Law and Justice fully support these actions of the government. The draft law presented by the government in print 2997 on the extension of the moratorium until 2021 on the prohibition of use for the production of GMO plant seed, while requiring the Minister of Agriculture to work towards the best use of domestic plant protein and drawing up a plan for such activities, has been positively assessed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law amending the Law on Feed, contained in print No.2997, and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u407	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me put my papers down because there's some of them. First of all, I have here for you the Law and Justice Programme of the Fourth Congress of Law and Justice of 15 February 2014. It's an agricultural programme of law and justice, strong agriculture. Healthy food. Modern village. As creators, Minister Jurgiel and Minister Ardanowski are signed. Ladies and gentlemen, at p. 65 is clearly stated - let me remind you that this is about 2014. - that the institutional integration of a protein feed production programme without GMOs, processing and the placing on the market of a special label for GMO products should be developed and implemented. I would like to remind you that such a programme has existed and operated since 2010, was created and funded by the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. In our day he received funding of about 35 million PLN, lasted and continues. But in 2016, the date of entry into force of the draft law, which prohibited us from using GMO feed, was nearer, and it was postponed. This was only the result of the fact that, at the date of the extension of the deadline, Polish agriculture, including animal breeding, was not prepared to replace high protein feed with native protein, so as to be able to give up addiction to mainly genetically modified buckwheat. All the research and expertise indicated that. The protein substitution programme worked, but Minister Jurgiel and Minister Ardanowski, then Members, former ministers of 2007, claimed that this could be done much faster, it could be implemented immediately and that is why we were the subject of general criticism. But what's going on? 2016, Minister Jurgel is the Minister. It introduces a law to amend the feed law and extend it. In examining the expertise and knowing that it is already advanced work, it proposes the term 2021 and sets up a special team, as the Member said here, which is working on replacing this feed with native protein as soon as possible. Unfortunately, I will remind you that the Minister, not to know why, without believing Minister Ardanowski, Jurgel, makes an amendment and shortens this period and that is why we meet here today. The first amendment of the law was included in print No 734, now we introduce an amendment of Minister Ardanowski, contained in print No 2997. What's the difference? As Minister Giżyński said, this bill captivates with its simplicity. I would advise you, Minister, to read in general the more enchanting simplicity of Minister Jurgiel's bill, which contained only a few of the most important records. We need to prolong this because we need to keep working, we need to be able to work on these opportunities. On the other hand, your bill - perhaps the point is not to be suspected of plagiarizing Minister Jurgiel's law - assumes that the Ministry will force the Minister to create a programme that has been in existence since 2010 and is financed, has a timetable for the work of the teams. It's all going on. But Minister Ardanowski doesn't know why, either he doesn't believe his people, either he doesn't believe his resort, or he doesn't believe anyone, even his party colleagues, and he writes in the bill an obligation to develop a new program. I ask: Is it an obligation to develop a program just to hire new people? You don't know what's going on. The date of completion or the date when the programme is to be published shall not be specified for this programme. It's just written there because, Minister, it's not so much his simplicity as he did one. I know you love very sophisticated words, but a simple word like that that fits print number 2997 is just a lie. It's just bullshit. [[Applause]] This is a project that should be developed then, in July 2016. It made sense at the time. You have to work, give money and check the results of your work. The Civic Platform therefore proposes an amendment which removes the provision of the Minister's obligation, the obligation to create and develop a plan because such a plan exists and the Minister is obliged to [[♪ The bell ♪]] secure our food, do as much work as possible on replacing protein. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u409	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question that arises is: How to vote? At the previous moratorium, I recommended Kukiz15 to vote for this moratorium because of the livestock producers, because of the poultry industry, because of a situation that cannot be just a pure political game. And despite the fact that as a Kukiz club15 we have been in favour of healthy Polish food since the beginning of our stay in the Sejm, for direct sales, we voted in favour of this moratorium. Tell me what's next. Now, if we vote against, will we be hailed against Polish agriculture? We've been put against a wall about whether or not nothing has really happened in the last few years. I can't say there's no show. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I was accused of pursuing a policy. On the other hand, it seems to me that the policy here was primarily law and justice in the fight against GMOs. Quote from Minister Jurgiel: The rules need to be adapted to the new European standards and eating habits in which there is no place for food containing GMOs. This is about things that in various campaigns have just threatened people with genetically modified foods. And at that time it was mainly such a fight, it seems to me, with the Civic Platform, to show that the Civic Platform is evil in this respect, while the Law and Justice are good because it fights GMOs. Marshal Terlecki also said in a famous interview that a little bit of perspective changes when you embrace power. And the perspective has changed, because you can't really produce without this genetically modified soybean imported from abroad right now. You can't just do that. The program must go on, but we should pass it on to citizens, not to make cheap propaganda so that someone wants to finish agriculture and the other side wants to defend it. It is necessary to convey clear messages, because in this respect, I think, Kukiz.15, Law and Justice, Civic Platform, Modern and PSL have a similar opinion. Only here is a completely different conflict, a conflict caused by this political game: who is for GMOs and who is against it. After all, we all want to be healthy, we want to enjoy health for many years and nobody just in some strange way wants to insidiously introduce food of bad quality to Poland. We all want protein security. Let's focus on this program first and foremost. We are talking about the fact that soybean cultivation in Poland does not work out that it does not pay off. From different sources, from farmers I know that not everywhere it is so that there are places where the cultivation of one variety succeeds, and other varieties succeed less, that one host has several tons per hectare in a given area, and the other one has 1,1,5 t. This is because of different variations. We're just in the woods in terms of possibilities and knowledge in terms of soya. That's why you have to focus on educating the farmers. There's another question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about counseling. Because if we don't have qualified agricultural advisors who can train soy farmers, let's not be surprised that big companies are going to give us different types of crops because there are higher costs: higher fertilization, spraying, harvesting and transport costs. It's not like that with soy. There is a lower yield per hectare, while there is a higher price. This is the only harvest that needs to be achieved. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this will not be in the interest of any private operator to train soy farmers. That's my opinion in this respect, that's what we should be aiming for. And going back to the issue of some hypocrisy, I ask you, how do farmers feel when they can't use genetically modified maize seeds? At the same time, we mass-import corn from Ukraine and destroy farmers through it. This is hypocrisy. We can't explain it to them. At the same time, it is said that there is a fight against GMOs, and GMOs are allowed into the country by bringing in shots from abroad. That's why we should define ourselves to some extent and as a government show above all... I would only focus on getting out of this state of hypocrisy to show you one way, and in my opinion, all parliamentary and parliamentary clubs will vote for it. Just to put an end to this hypocrisy that one club is for GMOs and the other is against it. We're all for health and let's stick to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u411	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u412	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The proposed project concerns the transfer, as everyone says, as at 1 January 2021, of the date of entry into force of the ban on the production, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feed and genetically modified organisms intended for feed use, as well as the development by the Minister for Agriculture of a plan for the use of national protein sources and for the minimization of the deficit of feed protein in animal nutrition as regards the extraction of feed proteins from national sources. Today, we have the same situation as on 3 November 2016, when the deadline for the entry into force of the above-mentioned PiS amendment. the prohibition was set for 1 January 2019. At that time, Mr Zbigniew Dolata repeatedly interrupted my speech by shouting about the possibility of faster implementation of the ban given by the PiS, and about the fact that the opposition is blind and does not see such a possibility at all. I also expressed my great hope that the Polish government would be able to implement this ban on January 1, 2019, but I also presented my concerns. As you can see, nothing came out of the government's declaration and we are to vote again to postpone the deadline for the ban. So then PiS Members had all around them with a vision of banning already in 2019 and now they have a statutoryly unbroken plan to use national protein sources and to minimise the deficit of feed protein in animal nutrition in obtaining feed protein from national sources. That such a plan is needed, we already knew on 3 November 2016, and it was mentioned at that time. Although the activities carried out in this regard have lasted for years, Poland is still heavily dependent on imports of soya from the USA and South America. In the next two years it will probably be similar, because the plan referred to in Article will be created and implemented. 1 proposed project, with a beautifully sounding title but completely general, do not have any time frame, as my colleague has already said, including the obligation to include on the website of the office of the plan set out in the project, it is not known when really the situation of the feed market will change. That's why it's important to talk about it openly. The problem is largely the lack of an alternative. According to experts, replacement of soya protein with pulses is very difficult due to excessive fibre content and anti-nutrition substances, which significantly reduces their contribution to compound feed for poultry and pigs. Rape meal comes out of the country, is used outside Poland. At this stage, we all know that if this ban were introduced in just over a month's time, farmers would have nothing to feed animals, and meat prices would have increased rapidly and significantly. The Ministry's efforts to minimise the deficit of feed protein by introducing the possibility of increasing the share of national protein materials in feedingstuffs do not deliver the expected results. Experts believe that introducing a ban would result in a loss of competitiveness of poultry production and as a result of a decrease in export value between 2019 and 2023 by PLN 35 billion. However, we are in favour of continuing to look for alternatives and conducting research in this direction, as well as for developing national crops, among others. currently very expensive non-GMO soybean to become independent from imports of soya from across the ocean in the future. We will ask in the interpellations about the implementation of the specific assumptions of the plan and its time frame. And we have no choice but to support this project, but also to take into account all the comments you have heard and in my speech, and in previous speeches, as we cannot sweep the problem under the carpet, because today these solutions are not visible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u413	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats will have no problem voting, as it did in 2016 and before. Why? That's because we're betting on modern agriculture, competitive agriculture. We want Polish farmers to make profits, and not to be some wall, a European wall, a global one. To make these profits, you have to be an exporter, you have to be a cheap food producer, you have to win this international competition. And when do you win it? When it's made cheaper when it's made better. Today, a source of protein is a prerequisite for global competitiveness. And the whole world today uses as a source of protein in animal production from genetically modified soybeans. There is no country in the world that is important in any area of animal production that supplies its own protein produced in its own country, which is not soy-based. This responsibility was always with us when there were debates about genetically modified soya contained in feedingstuffs. But this responsibility was not on the part of the PIS state, members of the PIS, who - I remember these debates - ran to this speaker and screamed, talked about betrayal, talked about the fact that the back door in Poland was introduced genetically modified food, that this, when they come to power, Poland would immediately be a GMO-free country, that soy genetically modified immediately would be eliminated. Meanwhile, what do we have today? Is Poland a GMO-free country? No. As far as crops are concerned, no. But every animal product, I dare venture, which is sold today in Poland and which Poles consume, is based on genetically modified feed. And this hypocrisy for electoral needs to fool Polish society to fool Polish farmers, today it brings negative effects to the state. And those who then shed crocodile tears were accusing of treason, hiding somewhere in the privacy of the hotel room or in the minister's office. There is not a single envoy in the courtroom today from those who were making these thesis at the time. They're not here because they're ashamed. There isn't, because they know they lied to Polish farmers. They're not here because they know they don't have a better idea. And there's a few evidence of that. The first evidence was the one that was already shown brightly today. Minister Ardanowski, when a bill extending the moratorium for the next four years appeared on the initiative of Minister Jurgiel, he came out with a wonderful amendment made on the basis of populism. Because I think as a responsible man at the time he was sure that after 2019. Poland will not yet be able to produce animal products without genetically modified soybeans, and on the basis of populism, in order to please, I do not know, President Kaczyński, someone else, perhaps some Members of the PiS, shortened the amendment, shortened this period until 1 January 2019 and when he took responsibility for the resort, after a few months, almost immediately - today we are witnessing it - presents a project that not only lays down lies to Minister Jurgiel's policy, but also to his own claims. He makes an amendment, lays down a draft, lays down a bill that is to extend the use of genetically modified soybean for another two years. It's a hypocrisy created for the electoral needs that is working today. I regret this because you can see that you do not absolutely care about the welfare of the Polish farmer or the Polish village. Polish farmers are only needed for political purposes. I'm sorry, I don't want to get into the skin of those countries who have to report this project today and talk about how good it is that you're going to support it. Because those who have created a bad opinion on this subject aren't in this room today. Poland is neither a GMO-free country under your rule, nor is it on the right track to become independent of genetically modified soybeans. Lies and hypocrisy that are being exposed today. But we were in favour of Polish agriculture being competitive and modern, just as we were then, as we were today and as before. Without looking at this wrong policy of yours, we will support this project because we believe that Polish farmers will in the future take actions that will implement this programme, which we presented a few years ago, presenting it and voting for a project to become independent from genetically modified soybeans, because you have no achievements in this regard. All that is being done in this case is what the Minister of Agriculture Stanisław Kalemba and his team, Minister Kazimierz Plocke and Minister Marek Sawicki, are doing. They have achievements, you don't, you just extend the next term and compete internally on populism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u415	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz'15. Mr Rometsky. [[It's not on the board.]] Yeah, I told you. But I've been reading you. [[I'm not on the board.]] Please. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another moratorium which postpones the entry into force of the rules prohibiting the import of GMOs. Despite the promises made two years ago, insufficient efforts have been made to increase the share of national protein in agriculture. There is no specific programme with a specific timeframe for replacing imported feeds with Polish protein. And there was a good bill on the use of protein crops in feed by Kukiz15. This project was coordinated by Mr Sachajko of Kukiz15. Of course, the project was found in the Seym freezer and for some - you can say: traditional - the reason was considered irrelevant. Hence my question: When will we replace GMOs with Polish protein? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u417	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u418	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state of research and work presented in the justification for this amendment to develop and market a national alternative to imported protein feed seems promising. However, in view of the delay in the time limit set out in Article. 65 to 1 January 2021, should not a strict date be set for the announcement of the plan? The question arises as to whether in two years' time, by the end of 2020. The High House will not be faced with any further withdrawal during the period of validity of the said regulation. 2 years is a very short period of time, and the reception of the document to be planned by feed producers and breeders should also be taken into account, and this knowledge should be translated into their individual strategies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u419	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many years ago, meat and bone meal were an important source of protein in animal feed. That changed 15 years ago when they were banned from using them. It was the aftermath of the disease of crazy cows, i.e. BSE, spongy encephalopathy, which was crazy in the UK at the time. The disease was found to be caused by the feeding of bovine meat-and-bone meal from bovine animals. In addition, it was found that this disease could cause a variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans where the source of infection could be prions, were prions in infected beef. However, BSE is no longer a problem at the moment. For many years, efforts have been made to introduce the so-called. cross feeding with meat-and-bone meal. Whether the government, or the ministry, see any possibility that, on an international scale, such a form of use of protein may be legally possible again... [[It's a protein chapter.]] ...what in our country's terms [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would it matter a lot? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u421	Thank you very much. I'm closing the list of questions, just in case, because it seems this one hasn't been closed. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u422	High Izbo! This project first of all captivates with naivety, reminds the classic PiS-owska prayer for rain in a situation where change is simply not possible, and it is in the time you assume. After all, over 2 million t of soy pellets should be replaced by domestic production, which would mean that legumes would have to explode five times in two growing seasons. This isn't real. You bring in this project, knowing it's completely unrealistic. The question is, why are you doing this? What is the real horizon of this change, if it is possible at all, because of the fact that, of course, there is still a barrier to the nutritional properties between soy buckwheat and legume buckwheat, which are not completely equivalent. So, Minister, what tools do you want to implement this wonderful plan? Whatever results you want, e.g. in the growing season 2019/2020? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much is this production going to increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I appeal for truth and honesty. And I will not ask for an apology here because there are no ministers, no Members who have criticized all of this so much, namely Mr Bąk, Mr Telus, Mr Szyszko, Mr Ardanowski and Mr Jurgiel. I just want to say that Mr Ardanowski has announced success, which is quite questionable that he has prepared solutions, broke the monopoly and solidarity of the feed lobby. That was before the election, ladies and gentlemen. But right after the election, he submitted a project in which he extends the moratorium. I'm asking when he was telling the truth. I appeal for honesty and truth, as we talked about in committee. Let's explain to people why we don't have the opportunity to become independent of the GMO shot. Question. If society doesn't want GMO products or GMO shots, then we have to do everything we can to secure it, but let's not do politics on it. Once again, I call for truth and integrity, mainly Minister Ardanowski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which, once again, at the rallies, I promise he'll do it as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u425	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today is not December 24th, and you are beginning to speak with a human voice. Since 2010, when we talked at plenary meetings about how to ensure the feeding of animals, the state has definitely been popping up every time: genetically modified plants - absolutely no, this is not an opportunity. You guys took the lead in this. And what happened? Today in this room every project has been extended since morning, every project of the Civic Platform, which has been criticised by you, is extended, as well as here - an extension of the moratorium. I wanted to ask you how much money was allocated to the operation of the soy-independent schemes [[♪ The bell ♪]] Genetically modified under the Platform since 2010 [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u427	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u428	But the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u429	Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u430	...from 2015
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u431	Madame, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u432	You speak human language. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u433	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: But don't insult us. We're not animals.]] [[Have you behaved like this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The demand for protein grows year by year. Scientists estimate that the increase in the world's population will make protein a scarce commodity. There is a chance to supplement in the future with insect protein. Question: "Is there any research in our country, what does the production of this protein look like?" Is this way of obtaining protein in our country possible and economically viable? Alternatively, when can it improve the protein balance in our country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u435	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to know what concrete actions the Ministry has taken over the last two years to limit the import of genetically modified soybean into Poland. We remember the 2015 slogans you were preaching before the elections. Today we're actually at square one. We do not criticize your proposals, but we know one thing: that, indeed, for some time, it is still difficult to assess them, the use of modified organisms for the production of feed will be a necessity, whether you like it or not. The problem is to honestly tell our farmers, consumers and especially the poultry industry and pig farmers in Poland. This is, I think, important for today. You are terrified that there will be no possibility of producing good quality feeds, and also those initiatives that you are taking dramatically. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will vote in favour of this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Duda, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy? And Mr Jacek Osuch... There it is. Good. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Mr Duda enters the pulpit]] Mr Jacek Osuch, I am sorry. You don't usually go to... [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] ...that I missed you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Geneticly modified organisms are an important topic for the Polish government, as well as Polish poultry and pig farmers. It is not possible to balance in easily digestible feed produced by these animals only with a high percentage of soy buckwheat, which is the best source of this protein for these animals. As of today, Polish legumes, such as husks or boboid plants, are unable to replace soybeans. So I ask, Minister: How much has the percentage of soybeans produced in Poland decreased in recent years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u439	Thank you very much, sir. Now, Mr Jan Duda. Congratulations on your performance, I think the other one... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister. From this tribune a few moments ago it was stated that Poland is not GMO-free, therefore... Because what else is the production of feed from the seeds of genetically modified plants, and what else is cultivation. I hope that consciousness is. On the other hand, one of the Members stated that Poland is not GMO-free. Minister, have they been issued, in accordance with the law on the ban on genetically modified crops, any authorisation for such crops? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As far as we're concerned, there's no difference in whether or not there should be such a comparison, let me ask you something else. If a farmer who produces from GMOs - and a plant is resistant to diseases - obtains 12 t per hectare and the other does not use these seeds and obtains 9 t per hectare, and this is from GMO seeds. If the shot goes into Poland, is it competitive, if it has a lower price, and is it killing Polish producers or not? It's a simple question. And another question. Will two years be enough, Minister, and if not, will anyone be responsible, or will it just be another populist slaughter and in two years' time another parliament will sign a moratorium? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u443	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Szymon Giżyński, is now speaking, known for his short and meaningful statements. There's no minister? There it is. [[Voice from the room: Something is moving slowly.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Marshal's hint was about speeches when I myself was the principal of my time, and at the moment he is addicted to the wishes of those of you who raised important matters here and addressed important questions to me as well. My task is to give you a precise and comprehensive answer on the specifics. I think it is a little like that, or perhaps even a little bit, that if we were to gather everything that appeared in the statements of all the Members speaking in the framework of the club's speeches - the questions also included narrative, descriptive themes - it would be a compendium, a collection of all the positive facts that make up the process in which we were all present. Yesterday there were very sensible statements in the committee, among others. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, who has given justice to all government teams and the Platform with PSL, and to us. [[Why did you scare me?]] He talked about the fact that we all contributed to the fact that we are one pellets that rushes to the point where protein self-sufficiency will be achieved in Poland. I do not agree with Mr Maliszewski that we are doomed to one direction, one dictatorship, one arrangement which concerns modified soybean, because it is the cheapest, and that it will be for decades, for the whole future, a certain direction of operation of even poultry production in Poland. It does not have to be that way, and hence this idea, this will, in which we all participate, and a whole series of actions aimed at taking off this string, which is on the side of the minuses. After all, this amount of 4 million we pay for imports of soya can be a value left in the country for farmers. We all strive to do this, and in moments like this we forget about this fact, and suddenly we come up with literally pretexts to differ here and make some political accusations about incompetence, bad goals, hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, I value everything that has been said positively here, and it has been said in all statements a lot, very much, and I reject it, I will not argue with it, something that goes beyond methology, beyond evidence, and is only a certain game. Well, I'm also, like each of you, a Member, a politician, and these are perfectly natural things, but for the sake of the matter, when I speak from this speaker as the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, I only put on positive matter, substantive matter, and I declare that she simply unites us here in this Chamber. Of course, this requires some evidence about the essence of the bill. It comes down to two very obvious ideas, explained in the committee, and also here by the rapporteur, in what he said - because this corresponds to the government's intentions - Mr Jan Duda. It wasn't the same, but it was totally sovereign. On the other hand, in the sense of intent, in the sense of some correspondence for obvious reasons was this communication of thought. And the absence of any ingrediation of accusations in the form of hypocrisy, in the form of some false or unhappened ideas, just wasn't there, because it's not true, that's why it couldn't be. This served something completely obvious, meaning a selfless approach to the subject, with the intention of dealing with it as soon as possible. All those charges that were filed here were about a plan that would apply. I will answer Mr Pyzik separately, but this is an important awareness. The plan will apply from the date of publication, i.e. from 1 January 2019. This is completely obvious, and this is not only due to intent, but also literally to the content of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, what we said yesterday on the committee and what you said together here is nothing more than a fair laurel for all those who are in this rushing Peleton to finally get out of this... [[Today?]] On the other hand, it is clear that we are making these positive assessments to ourselves, because we appreciate the efforts of all groups of scientists, politicians, producers, these tendencies of unity, association, to focus together on the subject, like feed producers, but also poultry producers at the same time. Such an agreement between the Grain and Wheat Chamber, the producers of rape and protein crops with producers, and the poultry house has already taken place. This is also a huge success, something that creates a very excellent and very important quality. This goes in the direction that we are talking about here all the time, in my opinion conclusively, because this is the quality that drives the whole segment of these cases. Such a combination of initiatives also gives a new spirit to scientists, scientists, research institutes, because they know that their work is very much needed. Such agreements - there will be more of them - they will provide excellent guidance and support, and at the same time determine. The fact that this plan came along... He will replace this so far used system of such laurels without obligations. It'll be a credit card for everyone, but with a specific commitment. There, in the matter of the law, everyone will be included in the statutory obligation, starting with the ministry, all those who exist in this dialogue and action, i.e. producers, research laboratories, research institutions, associations and associations. Their actions will be described there. They will be specified and put into a certain statutory restriction as to expectations. It's not gonna be a blank card anymore. It will be a laurel - starting with the ministry, from the government - with very specific, 2-year commitments. Because if we write an annex to a law whose vitality, meaning and end result are exhausted in 2 years, it is absolutely obvious that this plan does not concern any delusions and visions, but is a concrete plan. It is not an intention plan, it is not a plan for something to happen in the distant future, it is only an action plan, it is a work plan, it is a modus operandi, which has the application of the time limit provided by the Act. All the objections that also somehow exploded - maybe this is the right word; they were not selfless, but this is the last charge, I will not insist on it or develop it - during the committee, which also evacuated some of today's wordings later... It is that we apply, together with most of you, according to the voices that have been cast here, the principle that the procedures are for life and not for life for procedures. This principle has also been used in this matter of our bill, this project perfectly, I think, successfully. Ladies and gentlemen, now a series of these detailed questions, because I think that the problems that have been raised in the club speeches have been taken into account in my relation to these statements - more or less explicitly or unambiguously, but as far as the meaning of your speech is concerned, I am sure that in what I have said, in fact very friendly, very friendly, very friendly, it has been taken into account and taken up. Now it's concrete. Mr Rometsky. As for the project you're talking about, the bill you're asking for, there's already been some fitting here. They were clearly negatively assessed and rejected by the European Union's verdict. There is no justification or starting point for moving further in this direction, at least at this level. Mr Pyzik. Here I reply unambiguously, already answered: this is the date 1 January 2019. It determines the entry of this plan, because it's a statutory requirement. This plan will come up, and it's obvious that the owner of this plan, the author of it... Responsibility will be... It means co-author, because all these entities I have been talking about here will be included in this plan not only on an honorary basis and with respect and accuracy of the description. This will be co-authoring, because the core of this plan will also be many specific agreements, many specific orders, contracts, research plans. That's where it's gonna be. It will be cooperation and cooperation. The co-authorisation of this plan is something founded and evident, but for putting in place this plan, i.e. for building it up, gathering it all together, of course, it is for clear reasons the government, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture, which imposes these obligations on itself and on all the partners in this protein work. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski asked about meat and bone meal. Here - you know this as a professor, an outstanding scientist - there is no today, according to what we know, some effective method of testing the quality of protein. This means that there are some problems in the feed sense, including ethical problems. If this isn't there, then we can't go towards a situation where animals of the same species use weight, so to speak. That is in this sense completely unacceptable for today. Mrs Niedziela. Partly only referring to what was on the committee yesterday - I think the committee was useful in this sense, that today most of these topics have already been explained, survived - I can always say, also in this case, since there was a charge, when Minister Ardanowski was telling the truth, or when he broke the lobby feed or other situations. Ladies and gentlemen, he was always telling the truth, because this truth together with the state taken, because all the clubs voted in favour of this law, this truth, that is, all that is good, collected, is a draft law. [[You're a pain in the ass.]] However, one of these detailed truths, which are the most applicable here, is to bring these two very important players, players, once opposed to each other, but then, after all that has happened, accepting this direction of government work - three of them appear at one table. There has been a very significant, important agreement between poultry and rape and protein crops producers. This is a historic agreement that is not only based on optimism, but on the whole point of establishing this law, which we are talking about here today. So this is the truth, sir, which is the truth of the common truth. That's what I've been talking about, and I'm going back to that because this is the biggest motor value of this bill. [[And the answers?]] Mrs Skowrońska asked about the amount of money. If necessary, I immediately declare that this will be a fair answer, in accounting terms, in writing. These are 4-year-old programs and from the point of view of momentum and such functionality... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u445	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: Two more questions. No, I'm very sorry, but you didn't fit in time. [[You spoke too colorfully.]] Thank you very much, but the rest in writing. Yeah, well, I was hoping that the Minister... Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: You'd rather have a marshal. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Retail Tax (Print No 2996). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a government bill amending the Retail Tax Act contained in Seym Print No 2996. The Act of 6 July 2016 introduced a new retail tax into the Polish tax system. The adoption of this tax was preceded by a broad public consultation and met with acceptance of most traders. The purpose of the introduction of this new tax was in addition to increasing the tax revenue of the budget to compensate for the budgetary damage resulting from the optimization practices of large retailers in corporate income tax. However, by Decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into this tax. The Commission was concerned that progressive revenue-based rates confer a selective advantage on low-income entrepreneurs over their competitors. Thus, the European Commission questioned the right of Member States to impose progressive rates. On the same day in the same decision, the Commission issued an injunction to suspend the application of this tax until the Commission had completed its analysis. In 2017 a final decision was issued on the Polish retail tax. The Commission considered, contrary to our expectations, that this tax infringes EU State aid rules and concluded that, thanks to progressive tax rates based on the size of the company's revenue, low turnover companies have an advantage over competitors. Poland disagrees with the Commission's assessment and has therefore submitted two complaints. The first - the suspension of the tax decision and the second complaint already against that final decision. Both actions brought by Poland were recognised at a joint hearing which took place on 26 September 2018. Judgments in cases decided by the Court usually take place several months after the hearing. We still don't have that sentence. We're a little insecure about what this sentence is going to be, and we hope it's going to be positive for us, and there's a lot that points to that. However, without a judicial settlement in this case, we cannot charge retail tax, as this could put the Treasury at risk of loss and we must finally comply with EU law. What will result from the solutions proposed in this project? There will be a continuation of the suspension. It means that we will not continue to receive a tax which we believe is right and due and has been suspended. However, we hope that in 2019 the judgment of the Court of First Instance on this tax should be passed and perhaps it will allow us to collect this suspended tax. The case isn't sure. We don't know what the sentence will be. We are therefore proposing a law to extend this suspension. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I hope that this project will be accepted with understanding, and the work on it will go smoothly and I would like to ask for it to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u447	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a positive opinion on the draft law amending the Act on retail tax from print no. 2996 of 6 November 2018. The above draft law is substantially linked to the Act of 6 July 2016 on retail tax. The law entered into force on 1 September 2016. According to the original wording of the Act, its provisions were applicable to revenues from retail sales made from that date. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, taxable persons who have generated retail revenues in a given month of more than PLN 17 million shall be required to submit a tax return of the amount of the tax and to calculate and pay the tax on the account of the tax office. As the Minister said, by decision of 19 September 2016, the European Commission initiated a detailed investigation into the Polish retail tax. At the same time, the European Commission issued an order requiring Poland to suspend the application of this tax until its analysis by the European Commission is completed, so-called. A suspension order. According to the preliminary assessment of the European Commission, progressive rates were not justified, in line with the logic of the tax system in Poland. On 30 June 2017, the European Commission issued a retail tax decision. The European Commission considered that the Polish retail tax infringes EU State aid rules. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of Poland lodged a complaint against the European Commission's decision of 30 June 2017. In both actions, Poland asks for annulment of the decision of the European Commission. As the Minister said, the two actions brought by Poland were combined in a joint examination and were recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 26 September 2018. Given that the judgments in cases decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union are usually filed after 3, 4 months, as has been said, the decision will take place either at the end of 2018 or at the beginning of 2019. It is therefore necessary to continue to suspend the application of the provisions of the above-mentioned provisions. Laws until 1 January 2020 It should be said here, ladies and gentlemen, that the freezing of the collection of this tax in 2019 is a loss of PLN 1590 million for the Polish budget. What is worth emphasizing, perhaps in a special way, is that for the first time in 28 years the Polish government has struggled to achieve the development opportunities of trade in Poland by aligning the competitiveness of small and medium-sized retailers with the largest companies. Indeed, tax optimisation leads to the fact that the world's largest companies are privileged. I think that this example, this law, will also be a sign for other countries of the European Union, although I am convinced that in most European Union countries an attempt to introduce an equivalent game for small, medium, but also large retailers is on the agenda. As I said, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. In our view, this is the right course of action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u449	Thank you very much, sir. If we had spared ourselves the repetition of what the predecessor said, we would have done much better. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! I've got five minutes. I will not repeat what the predecessors have said, but I will say what the government has wrongly proposed in this project. First of all, the Civic Platform in June 2016, when we tried this project, said it was a bad project, because you don't help entrepreneurs by imposing taxes. This was not a notified project and therefore there were elements of uncertainty in imposing taxes on traders. This is no chance, no help to others. Margins are the basis: some have bigger ones, others have smaller ones. If you're looking for money, please don't look for it in taxpayers' pockets. The retail tax, we pointed out, is being transferred to a client. We are in favour of rejecting this project - and I am making an amendment - at first reading. What a pleasure it is, Mr Costowniak, today in this Chamber, from this speaker you say that you have all the pleasures of taxing. I think it's a pleasure to help citizens, not tax them. You were so pleased to move - the Minister had a difficult time in the finance committee, because you did it without consulting a new project to increase the VAT rate - 8, 10 billion from our pockets. You are now talking about another tax, I will remind you, without notification, and this is sloppy law making, with a progressive rate - what the European Union has accused you of. That's not the law. But now there's another mystery. Why are you doing this now? And for reasons like this, when there's an election next year, people will forget. Now they will shop, pay a little more because there is high inflation, but maybe until the European elections, as you say: parliamentary, they will forget. No, they will not forget, no matter how you cursed it, as Minister Giżyński tried today - today he tried to be golden, although he previously criticized all solutions regarding the use of genetically modified plants as feed. Today he was golden and put it to your heart. How polite he was. That's what you're trying to say. You're right about that. This is a very bad project, this is a very bad way to make law. There's no notification. You know very well that the European Union treats such differentiation, Minister, as public aid. And you didn't face the problem. If you want to help someone, don't give them any taxes, but face the difficulty of solving the same rules for everyone. And now you're talking about tax optimization. After all, you have started the whole camera so that there is no chance of tax optimization, and therefore you cannot talk about it. We ask you to prove what the issue of tax optimization was like in 2016 and how it is in the end of 2018 - how, because you have eliminated it. We have tried to adopt some solutions for eliminating tax optimization. The European Union said that this is public aid. As far as the progressive rate is concerned, there is also doubt. on the application and equality of entities vis-à-vis the law. Like I said, we're not gonna be behind extra taxes. The state introduced a bank tax passed on to the customer, a retail tax passed on to the customer in due time, so that the Poles would forget. I assure you, they won't forget. We're gonna talk about how much tax you've taxed and that you're enjoying it. At present, when it comes to these taxes imposed on citizens, it is PLN 10 or 12 billion per year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 10 or 12 billion zlotys a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u451	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak. There's no envoy. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This tax should never appear in Polish tax law, as should a number of other taxes and charges introduced by the Government of Law and Justice over the last 3 years. If this tax ever comes into force, it's 100% charge the cost of life of Poles and Poles, because this is exactly what happens to sectoral taxes. There is no denying that both these smaller or larger commercial networks and entrepreneurs operating on the Polish commercial market will simply shift this tax to the prices of products they sell - whether it is food, whether it is footwear, whether it is clothing. Exactly the same thing happened to the bank tax. The experience we have in this area has taught you nothing in the last three years. 100% bank tax Today customers pay - this is visible in credit card prices, account fees or the most severe mortgage loans for our lives. The bill is simple - the profits of the banks grow in proportion to the turnover, increased compared to the time before this tax was introduced, and PLN 4.5 billion a year feeds the state budget, and this is the money generated at our expense, from our pockets and our wallets. Besides, the cost we have today in shops is also the result of the policy of the PiS government. According to the National Register of Debts survey Mon. The statistical portfolio of Poles has increased the cost of living by 60% over the last 3 years and there is no case in this case. It is a result of part of the policy of the Government of Law and Justice and all the indirect or direct taxes that are introduced into the tax system and simply burden all the goods that we purchase every day, every month, when shopping, on the various types of services that we use - from the export of impureness to the hairdressing services. Today our basic cost of living is PLN 1572 - so that it was not that I did not set an example - while in 2015 it was PLN 976. The highest increase in thermal energy charges was 188%. , already mentioned by me the export of impurities - 93% , gas - 73% , current - 65%, water - 56%. This is the effect of the new fees and taxes that you introduce at basically every session of the Sejm. At each meeting of the Sejm - either in the plenary room or in the Committee on Public Finance or in other committees - we discuss such charges. The retail tax will also affect the next cost if it ever, as I said, enters into force. Of course, the price of the products and services that we purchase in such networks will be subdued. The second point, also extremely important, is to fall on your knees, which has already basically become a symbol of this government. You fell to your knees after a major international crisis on the Polish-Israel line. You fell to your knees doing a deformity of justice. You will also fall to your knees in the case of taxes and charges introduced. You will be cleared by the voters in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. Already during the local elections, many voters showed PiS a red card, among others. for those things I'm talking about. An even larger group of voters will be showing it in a few months. The procedure initiated by the European Commission on this commercial tax is further proof that you systematically break not only the values of the European Union, the European values that we have adopted when entering the Community, the values included in the Constitution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but also the law adopted by the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u453	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just a little bit. Indeed, this draft law concerns a change in the date of entry into force of the Retail Tax Act. Here we are in conflict with the European Union. The government appealed, challenged the decision of the European Commission. We're waiting for final sentences. Therefore, the government is submitting a proposal so that the Act from the retail revenues obtained can only enter into force on 1 January 2020. I'm not going to argue about print number 2996. He's short, he's formal. That's what this is about. However, we will not really support this project because we are simply opposed to imposing a new tax. It is not even known whether this will actually be from 1 January 2020. Today, household costs have increased considerably. This is where my predecessors talked about it. The costs of electricity alone increase by 60%, and it is already known to be the cost carrier. It is really not justified to add one more tax. There is no real shift for this to be carried out, which is why we will be in favour of rejecting this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u455	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, came forward to ask the question. Time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to ask you about respect and how much you will have of this, as the Members of the PiS say, pleasure in taxing. I'd say it's a dubious pleasure. You are counting on this formula, with significant inflation, to raise additionally because revenue is increasing. That's one thing. Secondly, have you made an economic bill, what will be the situation of entrepreneurs in relation to these various increases in the price of water, because they were, and the increase in the price of electricity? It's not like entrepreneurs are going to miss out on this. It is estimated that the current will go from 20 to up to 30 percent, so it is worth saying so. On what do you base your belief that this sentence will be beneficial for Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In our view, such differentiation without notification does not entitle you to such a way of thinking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u457	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that nothing upsets as much as raising taxes, introducing new taxes, because the state budget is very, but it is very wealthy. Several hundred billion zlotys is the amount that, when it is well spent rationally, it should, of course, ensure that all the requirements that the modern world puts into the state are met. I would like to ask the Minister, because this is another 40th tax, whether this is some scheme: 100 taxes on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. Poles ask how much this next tax will cost them. How much will the statistical Pole get in his pocket again, colloquially speaking? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! I ask you to tell me what the cost of this tax will be for society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u459	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Filip Świtała will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think I'm gonna come up with some sort of misunderstanding. This bill, which we are investigating today, which we have passed today, is extending the suspension of the application of the tax. This means that there will be no tax, there will be no budgetary revenue from this tax next year. [[But someday it will be.]] And now... [[Minister, the point was to get rid of this bill.]] Excuse me... The State has requested that this law should not be adopted, and if it is not adopted, the tax will automatically enter into force, i.e. If we do not adopt this law now, the tax will be automatically suspended from 1 January because the period for which it was suspended has expired. Therefore, this tax will automatically enter into force and then we will actually violate European law. But if... There's no answer to the question of how much more we're gonna raise, because we're not gonna get anything together if this bill comes into force, we're not gonna get anything together. What will be the situation of entrepreneurs? This is again a general question, it needs to be answered specifically, it can be concreteized, given specific parameters and answer how much it will cost, it is about investment, about its economic situation. There's no answer to that in general. If I should say, in answer to Mr Suchon's questions, whether this is another tax. This is not another tax, this tax has been introduced, it has been suspended, we have a dispute about this tax with the European Commission. [[But it was a tax.]] About how much it's gonna cost. This bill hasn't cost the taxpayers anything so far, and it won't cost them anything. I would also like to share this reflection with you. I think we're talking about a tax that has progressive rates for entrepreneurs. The Commission is questioning this. This means that the European Commission considers that a Member State cannot take a sovereign decision to impose a progressive tax. I would like to remind you that such progressive taxes operate in the European Union, e.g. There is a progressive tax on entrepreneurs in France and the Union has not questioned it so far. [[Minister, we're in Poland, not France.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u461	Don't bother the Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Filip Świtała: I know, that's why I say it's the title of such a deeper reflection. On the other hand, this question cannot be answered because this law prolongs the suspension of the tax. Thank you very much. [[Can I get a corrigendum?]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, we are dealing with scandalous actions taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union against Poland, an attempt to interfere with the rules adopted in this House, which has a democratic mandate received from Poles. It can therefore be assumed that the rules imposing an additional tax on the major trading networks, which generally apply intensive practices to avoid taxation, will also be considered incompatible with the EU rules. In this connection, I have a question: Is there a solution in the ministry for such a situation, e.g. in the form of a replacement of income tax with a single income tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u463	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We'll proceed to the... [[May I have the title of corrigendum? Mr. Marshal, you haven't given me a chance to make amends.]] Please? But the discussion has already taken place, Mrs President. You have half a minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u464	Mr. Marshal considers that I have asked for this mode, because it is worth explaining how we understood the motion to reject this project. [[Rejection.]] If this is what the Minister says it should be... that is, on the part of the State, there is no agreement, and any motion to reject this project is a request for implementation, and there is no legal option to do so in the current situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could the Minister confirm that? We'll try to talk about it before the votes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u465	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty (Print No 3015). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u466	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Government's draft law, which we are discussing today, amends the Act of 12 December 2017 amending the excise duty Act extending the zero excise duty rate to new categories of excise goods, i.e. until 30 June 2020. for electronic cigarette fluid and novelty products. The consequence of this law is a new deadline for the initial need for excise marks - until 31 March 2020, while the initial demand for excise licences submitted by holders of electronic cigarette or novelty liquids by 30 October 2018 will not have legal effect. This proposal takes into account the industry's demands to extend the period to prepare for new fiscal and administrative burdens on electronic cigarette and novelty liquids and to discuss the harmonisation of taxation of these products in the European Union countries. The extension of the period for entrepreneurs to prepare for the new rules on electronic cigarette and novelty liquids will allow for the authorisation of tax storage, the adaptation of buildings and premises to tax composition requirements, the obtaining of excise protection and the adaptation of production lines to the labelling of excise marks of liquids for electronic cigarettes and novel products. In addition, the time to adapt the business to the new rules will be particularly important for those entrepreneurs who do not have experience in terms of excise duty requirements and want to carry on their business legally. In addition, the project will reduce the fiscal burden for producers, intra-Community buyers and importers of electronic cigarettes or novel products. The funds retained by these entities as a result of the extension of the zero rate may be spent on their development. The bill provides that the Act will enter into force on 30 December 2018. I just wanted to give you one more important piece of information. In view of the fact that today we are dealing with a review of the excise Directive, which concerns traditional cigarettes, and which arises in the context of this discussion within the European Union, the possibility of harmonising the tax treatment of these innovative products, electronic cigarettes, this is an opportunity to adapt the tax arrangements that have been adopted, because it is ultimately important to discuss how this type of smoking in the new formula should be subject to excise duty, so that it is through the harmonisation process in this respect that it can be adapted and changed over the 1.5 year. It is also an opportunity to adapt the provisions of the Act to solutions that will potentially be harmonised. Thanks to this, it can be said that the Polish solution will correspond to solutions that will be adopted by other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u467	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a positive opinion on the draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty. The proposed law provides for a favourable amendment to the Act of 12 December 2017 amending the Law on excise duties concerning the taxation of excise duties of two new categories of excise goods, i.e. electronic cigarette and novelty liquids. With regard to Article. Point 1 shall extend the rate of zero excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products until 30 June 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u469	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u470	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The tax show's on. How is it different that the date of entry into force has been postponed? We haven't changed our position. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on this excise duty, about which the Minister says that there has been a shift and the directive has entered, and there may still be a chance to change the rules, the Civic Platform has not changed its mind on this subject. As for the need, we said. We're counting today. Previously, Mr Suchoñ said 100 taxes on the 100th anniversary. You know, the pace you're going to be doing this, you're going to get it, but will the citizens approve of you for it? As before, we're not in favour of this tax, so you're moving the state... This is the difficult situation, how to do or reject, whether it's just rejecting the deadline. Today, let it go to the public finance committee. Let's talk about it, talk about it, and argue about it, but let's not say that we have the pleasure of taxing, imposing excise duties, putting on fuel charges, because citizens will pay for all of this. And we certainly haven't changed our mind about that. So, as we are not in favour of introducing additional fees today, additional taxes in a situation where you spend lightly on some unnecessary things with a light hand, when you give away money or employ additional officials, and the state becomes more and more expensive for the citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u471	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długo is not here. Mr Michał Jaros has given his voice in writing. Three Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I didn't want to ask that question, but the question that's being raised here is still important in another space. Thus my question: How do these beneficial changes fit into the proposed solutions of the Ministry, these actions, these proposals presented in terms of protecting the young generation of Poles from addictions, fighting nicotineism, fighting oncology and such problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u473	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u474	Eight years ago, the Civic Platform and PSL government banned smoking in public places. There's no excise duty left. So that as far as health is concerned, we took care of it. But, Minister, I'd like to ask you about the real reasons why we should postpone the date of entry into force of this law. Because it can be wrapped nicely, it's what you didn't prepare to postpone the date of entry into force of the law you once submitted, which we have been debating for a long time in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u475	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u476	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! About a year ago, on November 7, 2017, a debate on this project took place here in the Sejm in the High House. And we already said then that this creates additional burdens for both the general public and entrepreneurs who are active in the area covered by the law. And then we presented -- I could quote it to the Minister -- our doubts, which were just about, among other things. preparation of tax warehouses, an appropriate deadline for this to be carried out, costs associated with it. And then you didn't Minister, because the Minister wasn't here, but Minister Wiesław Janczyk assured me that everything was okay, that entrepreneurs would have time to think this through. It wasn't. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] What problems have entrepreneurs encountered in applying this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u477	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Costowniak, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We hear a lot about imposing new taxes, another danin. I wanted to ask, are we talking about the same bill? Because if we're talking about point 1 of the Act, we're talking about maintaining a zero excise duty on these products, so it's hard to say here about adding any new tax burden to taxpayers. [[That's an excise duty. Accession.]] Minister! I'm gonna need a little clarification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u479	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Now, if the Minister wants to... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Leszek Skiba will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the four questions you have asked, first of all, it is worth remembering that the nature of smoking is changing. Indeed, this bill makes sense. The whole world, you can say, sees some new trends in the fact that traditional cigarettes are replaced by electronic cigarettes. And this law, which was adopted, from the point of view of this, the honourable Member asked, to combat the negative effects of addiction, the negative consequences for health make sense. Thanks to this law, excise marks are imposed, i.e. banning is carried out. Thanks to this vandalization operation, even if it is so that we are dealing with zero stakes, the buyer can distinguish a product that is in some sense reliable from a health point of view, the point is that it is not something that has, you can say, additional negative effects, contains some much worse than nicotine chemistry itself. Therefore, this dimension, the banning is extremely important, also from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, which sees that we are actually dealing with the acceleration of the spread in the European Union of the trend of many countries taking this seriously, analyzing the experience of the other countries of the European Union. This could potentially occur in the context of discussions on amending, amending the directive on the levying of excise duties on cigarettes, on nicotine products. We can adjust our records during this period in such a way that it is as competitive as possible from the point of view of the citizens and industry that manufactures these goods. There are many Polish companies that are actually active in other countries of the European Union. At the same time, there is a fairly noticeable trend that the nicotine content of these products, whether innovative or electronic, is decreasing. Therefore, this has less and less negative consequences for health. There are even products that do not contain nicotine at all. It can therefore be said that this law allows us to adapt to what is happening in the European Union. It takes into account both the health protection of citizens and this entrepreneurial dimension, which is that it does not counteract attempts to create Polish companies that are active in this market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u481	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the bill. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the bill? No one's checking in. [[No, we didn't know that mode would be adopted. We thought there'd be a reading...]] We'll proceed with the third reading in the voting block... [[For the second reading, we'd like to...]] Same again? [[This mode wasn't meant to be...]] But that's the solution we've taken. [[When?]] Just now. [[Mr. Marshal said so quickly we didn't get enough air.]] I'm opening a discussion. Time: 2 minutes for each of you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u482	Once again, I would like to express that the Civic Platform Club is against taxing. We hope that during this period, which the Minister was talking about, this additional time will be sometimes put in place to reflect, to show, as well as to discuss within the Committee on Public Finance in accordance with the article. 152, because to discuss this in a different way during the work of the committee, unfortunately, you do not want to agree. The point is to talk about the real reasons why it's an extension for entrepreneurs... And what country can you make in this regard with regard to the introduction of the Nicotine Directive changes to this solution, to this law, so that it is the least burden for entrepreneurs? That's one thing. Secondly, if the Minister says... To make this discussion fruitful and reliable to show how the Polish market for the sale of both tobacco and innovative products is changing, e.g. Electronic cigarettes... We will need this discussion - if this mode has been established by your marshal. Thank you for letting me speak. I didn't miss the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project, you can say, goes back to the High House after a year. The point is to postpone certain deadlines, to postpone certain provisions. I must say that we talked about this a year ago when this project was being examined here in the High House. You were Minister Janczyk. Then Minister Janczyk said that this is enough time to register the tax warehouse, that three months is enough time. Tax warehouse requirements, etc. - that's enough time. Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which imposed another tax, which imposed further bureaucratic obligations on Polish entrepreneurs, shows how the Law and Justice treats entrepreneurial people, treats the business on which our country operates. Unfortunately, those regulations that you're introducing... I don't see the Minister here anymore either. Apparently, he felt that this was not a very interesting discussion when the state imposed new taxes on entrepreneurs. This law shows how Polish entrepreneurship is destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen! Our agreement, the agreement of the Modern, was not to operate this law. We voted against because we thought that imposing taxes in a situation where the state has such a large budget, from which resources are unduly spent and, on the other hand, the imposition of unrealistic deadlines is simply such a policy for destruction. Today, this draft law, in which deadlines are shifted, shows that our position, our concerns and our guidance were absolutely reasonable. I wish I could, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the future, the Ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u485	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u486	...with these good clues, they just took advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u487	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the first reading of the government bill amending the law on amending the excise tax law, print no. 3015. I am very pleased that the proposed bill provides for a favourable amendment to the Act amending the excise duty law for taxpayers. The application of zero excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products shall be extended until 30 June 2020. This will provide the addressees with the necessary additional time to adapt to the new regulation. A new deadline is also introduced to comply with the obligation to indicate the legality of the excise duty marks of electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products, which is a consequence of the above extension of the zero rate. Here I would like to remind you that almost a year ago, on behalf of the Modern Club, we requested an extension of zero excise duty for these categories of products. This was also advocated by the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. Let's remember. - and I stress this with all my power - that every tax at the end is most chargeable to the consumer, not to the producer, the intermediary or the entrepreneur. Modern as a free market and liberal party supports the extension of the zero excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid and novel products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL - UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Act amending the Act on excise duty, print No 3015. The bill deals with the taxation of excise duties on electronic cigarette fluid and novelty products. The amendment shall cover the time limits adopted in the Act of 12 December 2017 amending the Law on excise duties, and so shall: 1. the zero excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products of 31 December 2018 shall be extended until 30 June 2020; and 2. the time limit for the labelling of the excise marks of electronic cigarette liquid and novelty products is extended after 31 December 2018 until 30 June 2020. In addition, the draft regulates that the initial requirements for excise marks will be submitted by the holders of these products by 31 March 2020. Regardless of the justification for the project, the PSL - ED Club will support this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u490	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. First, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another year in a row, I am amending the national budget for the allocation of funds for the extension of the Kowale node on the Tricity ring road, in the current trail of the S6 road. The inhabitants of both Gdansk and the whole Pomerania need to expand the Kowale node. It is part of a high-speed road managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, which is why it is the government's responsibility to expand it. Therefore, I ask Members, especially those of the ruling PiS - because you have a majority of votes in Parliament - to support my amendment to the budget, granting money to the modern Kowale node, which this node will uncork both the southern districts of Gdańsk and the municipality of Kolbuda. The inhabitants of Gdansk and the municipalities of Kolbuda stand daily in gigantic car traffic through the undersized, collisional knot Kowale. The present arrangement of the node also poses a threat to human life and health due to very poor visibility. The Gdańsk branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways itself stated in its opinion that only the extension of this junction is a solution to the current situation. Last year and in previous years, PiS Members, even those from Pomerania, rejected my budgetary proposal granting funds for the extension of the Kowale node. This is done to the detriment of the inhabitants. I hope that, at the end of this year, Members will accept this amendment of mine and in two to three years' time the nightmare of drivers in the Kowale node will be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u492	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to make a statement by Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice Club. It's written. Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every year, on 20 November, we celebrate the Day of Industrialisation of Africa set up by the United Nations General Assembly by Resolution 44/237 of 22 December 1989. This day aims to mobilise the international community to take action to industrialise Africa so that it no longer remains on the margins of the world. Africa is the poorest continent. The list of problems include malnutrition, hunger, reduced access to drinking water, climatic disasters, inadequate health care, epidemics - mainly AIDS, malaria and haemorrhagic fever - but also illiteracy, civil wars and the huge debt of most countries. Africa is the place of the fastest growing economies, although most of the people of this continent are still living in poverty. Many places cannot be reached by common means of transport, and industry only exists in large agglomerations. Most people do not have access to any technology at all, not to mention access to most civilization achievements. Therefore, the attention of the whole world and the desire to help people who are starving in the 21st century are important. The cause of the bad situation in Africa is largely the colonial past. The lack of educated professionals was one of the problems and obstacles to development. The colonists were not interested in training the colonised population at a higher level. The borders of the colony are not natural borders, but the boundaries of interests that divide the African map artificially into two or even three countries, nations, tribes and tribes. Low civic awareness after decolonization became a reason for dictatorial and corrupt governments to begin. The failed companies from the time of the colony, in many cases the entire economy collapsed. Addressing the problem of the industrialisation of Africa, making the economies of the countries of this continent competitive is, it seems, the only solution to the migration problem from this continent. European countries, of course, should be the countries that help in this process and post-colonial countries in a special way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u494	Thank you very much. Now Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to share an unusual letter - an appeal, the position of the City Council of Murowa Goślina, which was addressed to me and, through me, also to you: Dear Members! Children and young people are the future, and it's hard to disagree with that. They are of great importance to the Republic as well as to the whole world. They will have a decisive voice in everyday and higher matters in a dozen years. They will take over jobs in banks, courts, bakeries, but also in florists or gas stations. No matter what happens, they are an integral part of the changes that will take place when the current adult population grows old. You have to guide the young people on the right track, show them, help them, advise them and, above all, trust them. But how can they if adults don't trust each other? What will happen to the future of the Republic of Poland? The Ombudsman is a very demanding and very responsible role. It is needed every day to a greater or lesser extent, but none must be underestimated. At this point, I would like to assure you, young councillors from Murowa Goślina, but also from other places, that your affairs are important for Members, and it is also important to choose the Ombudsman of the rights of the child who is about to come. We believe it will be a person who will always take your cases as a priority and will do everything he can for your sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-21-sejm-72-1.u496	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. production and storage surface. On 16 November 2018, we witnessed the beginning of the uprising of another 24,000. m2 storage space. It is a great success for Elbląg - the possibility of dynamic development and employment of more people. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 22 November 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 22]]
