ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call Catherine Osos, Elizabeth Zielińska, Agata Borowiec and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Katarzyna Osos and Mr Elżbieta Zielińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Zielińska and Agata Borowiec. I'm asking the appointed... Ah, the Member has already taken her place. There's probably not gonna be any others. I therefore ask you to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 9, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 11, - to the European Union together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - at 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 2.30 p.m., - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 14.45, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 9, - Parliamentary Group for: explanations of irregularities in cooperative savings and credit banks and the National Cooperative Savings and Credit Fund - hours. 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Military and Territorial Defence - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Road Transport - hour 13, - Parliamentary Panel on Polish herbalization - hour 13, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Team for the Rights of Life - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 15, - Parliamentary Panel on Chemical Industry - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Labour Code Reforms - h.m. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u3	Thank you very much, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute, the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. So we approach the questions. As the first question to be asked, I ask Mrs Ewa Malik from the Law and Justice Club. The question is about the state of safety of work in coal mines in the context of the tragedy in the mine Zofiówka. It is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Energy will answer Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The operation of raw materials has always been associated with a series of threats to mining plants and miners. Data from the Higher Mining Authority indicate that in 2017 there were 2078 different accidents in the entire Polish mining industry, including 15 fatal accidents. The last available report of the Higher Mining Authority shows that in Polish mining the number of accidents is steadily decreasing. However, there are still dangers underground. Risks are increasing due to the increasing depth of the exploitation of minerals, increased concentration of extraction and operational events. The tragic shock occurred on 5 May this year in the mine Zofiówka belonging to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. The rescue was extremely difficult. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions: How does the Ministry intend to increase the level of security in mines? How many inspections did WUG perform in 2017 in underground mining plants? Did WUG control the Zofiówka mine in 2017 and 2018? What were the conclusions of the check? How do you assess the security status of coal mines in the Silesian Voivodeship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u5	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for these questions and bringing up this case that we've been through a few weeks earlier. The whole rescue and drama on the mine Zofiówka resulted from a shock, actually from an earthquake, which is rare in this area as well as in mining. As far as the mining office is concerned, what you asked about, the labour safety supervisory authorities are set out in the provisions of the Geological and Mining Law and in the regulations on supervision and control of the movements of mining plants, and all types of mining, not just this coal. As far as 2017 is concerned, according to the state of 31 December, i.e. summing up the entire past year, checks from mining offices took place in 7533 underground mining plants, including 41 underground mining plants. At that time, there were 177 thousand employees. people in all mining - this is important, it is about the scale of people involved in this industry. So the scale of the natural controls that result from the current supervision of the Higher Mining Authority on safety... These figures show that there are quite a number of inspections of mining plants. The control activities of mining authorities were aimed at developing potential sources of risks in mining plants - what you asked - and taking preventive action, because it is crucial to anticipate potential undesirable events, in order to eliminate them, in particular by controlling the work carried out, eliminating the risks of such behaviour and controlling the organisation of work. In 1500 cases, the works were temporarily stopped due to inspections carried out in underground mining plants. But what does it mean to stop? At a time when there is control and there are comments, it is sometimes eliminated immediately during the inspection, there are some recommendations. In the event of a stay of up to one minute, for 5 minutes it shall be noted that such a interruption is present. We can say that, in general, what you saw in 2017, which was very positive for us during this difficult restructuring process... We have often engaged with great strength in order to organize organizational matters in mining, the construction of the Polish Mining Group, the functioning of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company. We managed to build a system in the field of rescue stations, also with the involvement of WUG, because we set up an appropriate team in 2016 to evaluate regulations. Three regulations have entered into force that have clarified certain behaviours by introducing new technologies, a new way of functioning in certain areas as regards safety. I'm talking about a significant drop in the number of different events and accidents that were out there, health damage, mining. This was very positive information for us - information from the report of the Higher Mining Authority. Later, as we know, there was an incident in the mine Borinia-Zofiówka-Jastrzęba, specifically in the Movement of Zofiówka, which somehow filled us all with sadness. With regard to the checks that were carried out in Zofiówka, as you rightly asked, 36 inspections were carried out in 2017 specifically in this mining plant, while within 5 months in 2018, and thus until the event, there were 10 controls. In view of certain comments, the following sanctions have been applied to those responsible: 56 educational measures provided for in the Code of Offences have been applied, so instruction has been given, warning has been given, 24 mandates have been imposed, as they have happened, and four times have been requested by the court to draw the consequences. During the five months of these checks, 15 educational measures have been applied, 13 criminal mandates have been imposed and a single application has been sent to the court. This applies to mining workers, as well as companies that operate mines on individual works. As far as the issue of regulation is concerned, as we assess the state of security in mining, we can only... Every event, even the smallest one, is always a matter of concern and makes us try to analyze it and learn from it. Our mining, even though we had this incident in Zofiówka, where the miners died, is safe mining compared to other countries. For information, I would like to say that immediately, even during the rescue operation - which is not unique, but it was also applied here - the President of the Higher Mining Authority appointed a committee. The committee is currently working on proposals for the event. Of course, this committee also evaluates the deposits that remained after this event, the accident, the earthquake, the shock. It is about where, in the future, we can operate safely in Sofiówka. All I'm saying is that the moment the event took place, the work at the Sophie mine was stopped for one day at all. Later in these fields, where the Higher Mining Authority signaled that work could be undertaken, it was allowed, but under full supervision. One thing that is very important: many aspects of this rescue operation were new things. The new thing was... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just two more words, Marshal. The new thing was that there was always a president or vice-president of the Higher Mining Authority on this action. I must also stress very strongly that there was also the president of the rescue station personally with his deputy. These are, I think, things that first appeared. The point is, there was this involvement of the organs in the rescue operation itself. It is a matter of the head of the rescue operation, the director of the mine, but it should be noted that there were also representatives of the board. It's a new phenomenon that hasn't happened so far. There were chords that we could learn about from the media, get information. These are the elements that have emerged during this unfortunate event, I think, positive. But let's agree, it was an event that filled us all with pain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u7	Thank you very much. Additional question. Stay here, Minister, or there will be an additional question. They will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, also by Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski for his time, for his support, which he gave during an extremely difficult rescue operation in the Zofiówka complex mine in Jastrzębie-Zdrój. The thanks are also due to the miners taking part in this action, to the management of the action with Waldemar Stachura at the head, and to the supporters. In the face of tragedy, we are aware of the force of nature toward which we become powerless. The success of the action is often determined by the experience of those involved as well as by the rescue equipment used. Minister, how do you assess the state of the Polish mining rescue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u9	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's hard to say positive things when there's been an unfortunate incident in which there were fatalities. Even the action showed that... The action was extremely difficult and I will no longer talk about it, because earlier information was provided on an ongoing basis. We have emergency stations so organized that rescuers are also in individual mines. As the Member rightly pointed out, I had the opportunity to be there and observe certain behaviours. Really, I'll be honest. as a man who may not be that scared. When it comes to some commands, decisions that you have to enter a hole 60 cm wide, where you push the equipment before you, where then the whole host enters, then I will say that on one side In fact, you have to have good equipment, well assess the situation, so that these rescuers can do this difficult work with great effort, but also that they walked in such a tunnel for 50 m, 100 m, then returned at an increasing temperature, where they were simultaneously taking action to maintain certain methane parameters, so that there was no risk of explosion, which was not the cause of this tragedy, but as a result of the incident was destroyed parts of the equipment that provided oxygen, so that it was necessary to be brought to places where rescuers were leading. All this shows that our rescue is in good condition. We can also recall the fact that in many places in the world, where there are various conferences, presentations, even competitions - because our rescue team is the world champion in rescue efficiency, and it is also, I think, worth emphasising - it can be seen that the level of organizing action by the rescue station and rescuers in individual mines is at a high level. That's what I want to say with full responsibility. True, we have been building a strong rescue station in Bytom for some time and we want the mines to be more focused on training and standardization for this very station, because we have it. She is well equipped, we have good rescuers, physically prepared for such difficult events. This process, which has been taking place in the rescue station for the last three or two years, so the equipment, special training, caused that not only the miners, but mostly the rescue station workers, were involved in these difficult interventions down there, so they managed to reach the miners who were trapped as a result of the shock. It makes today when there are fewer mines and they are concentrated [[♪ The bell ♪]] in individual entities, it is easier for us to build a specialist station that will centralize rescue - and it is beginning to work for us - of course, respecting the activities of the hosts that are in the mines. To conclude, in one word: I judge very well our rescuers, mining rescuers, our preparation for rescue activities not only in mining threats, but also in others. I think that these words of thanks from the Member were very appropriate. It's a good thing we thank the rescuers here, too, in the Seym. Finally, your marshal - I think this is important because we do not always boast - that our miners, our rescuers were honoured with a medal from Pope Francis. It happened on the bakery pilgrimage. This is a special distinction. So this effort, this hart, this courage has been appreciated and honored even by the Pope, which is, I think, very valuable to the environment of rescuers and miners. Thank you very much, Marshal, for letting me say that too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u11	You're welcome, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform in the persons of Mr Kazimierz Plocke and Mr Tomasz Kucharski. The question will concern hunting compensation and will be addressed to the Minister of Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska, will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From 1 April this year. The new Hunting Law is in force, which raises a lot of controversy. One of them is that the chiefs are to estimate the damage caused by wild game. The Councils were not given instruments or implementing instruments in the form of regulations to the law or technical, or specialist equipment needed to estimate damage. On 21 April 2018, the Management Board of the Provincial Association of the Wielkopolska Voivodship adopted a resolution which states that the Soviets of this voivodship refuse to carry out tasks related to the estimation of hunting damages. In view of the situation, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions. First of all, who will be responsible for drafting a bill that cannot be implemented? Secondly, why was this draft law not consulted with the Chiefs or their organisations, since the law imposes very broad obligations and responsibilities on them without providing funding for the assessment of damage? Thirdly, what is the legal situation in municipalities? Does the Ministry have any idea how many applications have been submitted to assess the damage, how many committees have been set up to assess the damage in municipal offices? And finally, fourthly, how does the Polish Hunting Union react to the situation? Does it submit comments to the environmental department on the implementation of the new Hunting Law after 1 April 2018? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u13	Thank you very much. And I ask Minister Margaret Golinska to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! By amending the Law on Hunting Law, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of July 2014 was enforced. As we know, the deadline set for implementation expired in January 2016. This judgment was an incentive for those opposing hunting to apply to administrative courts to exclude their property from the hunting circuit regime and any application by the court was examined in favour of the applicant. This judgment also indicated that there should be enhanced supervision by the minister of the Polish Łowiecki Union, and that the property of farmers should be taken into account. With regard to the implementation of this judgment, this law introduced, among other things, because this is not all, the possibility of submitting comments and opinions concerning the process of creating the division of voivodship into circuits or obtaining compensation in the event of the inclusion of real estate in the circuit, not excluding from borders and causing a significant limitation of the possibility of using. It also strengthened the supervision of the Polish Łowiecki Union and, as far as farmers are concerned, strengthened their position at the time of assessment of injury. So far this estimation has been done on the basis of: hunter and farmer and farmers have often accused themselves of being disadvantaged in the situation that they are always in a losing position in the collision with hunter. This is why the legislative process proposed that these estimates be made by the assessment team, which was to be composed of the circuit manager and the injured farmer. Here, during the work in the Sejm, a parliamentary amendment was introduced, which also included the chiefs in this team. It was at the request of the farmers themselves, who wanted to have someone on this team who they could see as a supportive person. Hence the lack of consultation that you are talking about. It was a parliamentary amendment, already incorporated during the work on the project in the Sejm. With regard to the problems arising from this, information about these problems reaches the Ministry, also reaches the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, also appeared at the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission as a request from representatives of municipalities to take account of some of the Councils who refuse to participate in the assessment, which often does not take place either this estimation or immediately appeals to the superior body. How many claims for damages have been made? I'll give you the answer to that question in writing. If you are asking about the Polish Hunting Union, how it refers to changes, then at this moment representatives of the hunting union were asked by us to report any problems that arise during estimation. On the part of hunters these problems are not reported at this time, on the part of farmers, yes. This is most often due to the fact that the chiefs, who should participate in the estimation, or refuse to participate and appoint no one in return, or even if they participate in the estimation, claim that they are not entitled to do so, that they do not have the opportunity to do so. Let me just remind you that the Act provides for the possibility of absence in the estimation of the representatives of the tenant or the circuit manager, and the absent farmer may also be the head of this team, while the representative of the municipality is the chairman. If the Chief doesn't want to estimate, he can't estimate, he has other tasks, because, of course, the bill doesn't clearly indicate that it's specifically this Chief, he can authorize any other person, another farmer, another person who could do it on his behalf. I think that in the case of many leaders who have other professional responsibilities, this is effectively implemented. However, what is most important - we have made such a declaration during the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission - is that we will work on amending the project in this regard. May 28th this year to the Sejm was submitted a parliamentary bill amending the Law on Hunting Law, which concerns the modification of the procedure for the estimation of damages. If this project is accepted by most Members, the representatives of the municipalities will be completely excluded from the assessment teams and will be replaced by representatives of the provincial agricultural advisory centres who will be able to participate in the work of the team. The chairman of this team, as indicated in the draft, is to be the circuit manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u15	Thank you very much. And I ask Mr Tomasz Kucharski to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to get information - actually I've already obtained it - whether the government is working on another version of the amendment to the Hunting Law bill, proposing that hunting damages should be estimated by representatives at the moment by agricultural advisory centres. I have questions here. If so, who will finance the damage assessment process and according to what criteria? With what qualifications and where will valuers be obtained? We are also interested in what will be the source of the remuneration of experts and the estimation of damage. Will it be a state budget or other sources, or will it be a forest fund at the expense of national parks and State Forests? This proposal shows the lack of a coherent vision of how hunting damage is to be estimated, which also introduces nervousness among farmers. We would also like to know what the opinion of agricultural organisations, State Forests and national parks is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and, of course, what is the government's position on this parliamentary proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u17	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u18	As I said, Mr President, the proposal in the new project excludes the Councils and includes representatives of the provincial agricultural advisory centres. As far as the source of funding is concerned, it's a forest fund. [[Voice from the room: Why the six?]] Today, this fund is also financially financed by the source of funding for national parks. There will be a change in the provision for optional financing. However, in order not to reduce this and so that parks do not suffer any damage, their needs will be met by funding from the national environmental fund. Besides, when it comes to national parks, this is a separate topic that I think is worth discussing during the work of the Parliament. Many of the problems that arise, including financial issues, are problems that are worth leaning on. I think that on this occasion soon and such a discussion will be ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u19	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Why from the sixth point, Minister?]] Member or something extra? You are not listed, and I am therefore very sorry, Commissioner. I'm really sorry. They're clubmates. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Kukiz Club15, namely Mr Piotr Appeal, who will ask the first question, and Mr Robert Mordak - an additional one. The questions will be on the principles under which consent was given to the introduction and storage of waste from third countries concerning the actions and plans taken by the Ministry in relation to landfill fires and their effective prevention and the results of the studies of the exhaust gas from landfill fires. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek. Please ask the first question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u20	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I have a question because we've had this weird wave of events that we've been following since last year. I have a question about this: What has the Ministry done over the years to prevent such events? Are there rules or regulations that could, for example, be prepared or developed? prohibit the removal of garbage from countries outside Poland? I am fully aware that when it comes to most garbage, they are Polish, those burning, but this is also important. And the question is equally important, because they are available in voivodships in individual voivodships portable systems for measuring exhaust emissions, measuring air quality. Does the Ministry have data - and why does it not have, if they are not, concerning the chemical composition or composition of these exhaust gases? On the basis of this, are notifications of the possible storage of incorrect materials in these landfills submitted? I would also like to know if the Ministry is planning anything to do with the problem of degassing the trash, because it seems to be the main cause, one of the many causes of spontaneous combustion or fire in landfills at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u21	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for asking this question, because it is a great opportunity to clarify the issues of fires that we have been dealing with recently, but also to resist fake news that appear among the pocket trolls on the Internet. So thank you very much for this very substantive question. When it comes to junk that goes to us illegally, it's criminal phenomena that shouldn't happen in any way. If this happens, the relevant authorities shall be notified. When such garbage is revealed, there's a whole procedure that binds us. Such waste shall be notified to environmental inspections or other bodies which have such competence in the country concerned and shall be disposed of. The problem begins when - as in Zgierz - they will be mixed, which happened before the fire. It is then difficult to transfer the waste properly to the country of origin in an appropriate quantity. There was also such information that thanks to the chief environmental inspector, garbage entered Poland. First information: The Chief Environmental Inspector never issues a permit for municipal waste, for garbage. These are the most common raw materials that go to individual installations, there is a three-month procedure under which this happens. Very often these are very necessary raw materials, such as overworked oils, battery parts, steel elements, which simply go to prepared, specialized installations, to the steelworks. This is very important information, so I would like to say this first. There was also this information about 700 permits, massive amounts of waste. That's not true either. In 2017, 377 thousand were brought to Poland. Those waste I told you about legally. Legally. And that, too, is part of a certain market. At similar times 6 million tons were imported to Germany, so let's see how much more we have to try to build this recycling market. We need to build installations that can also process our waste, right? We have a lot of them, so maybe it's not 6 million as it is in Germany. In general, as regards cross-border shipments of waste, authorisations are issued on the basis of the provisions of the EU Regulation - we are operating on the same document throughout the European Union. This is Regulation No 1013/2006. And indeed, the chief environmental inspector is in charge here. There's still so-called. a green list on the basis of which other materials are moved, such as scrap metal, waste paper, glass cullet, plastics, but also intended for recovery. It's also a certain area, these waste drives and there's no need for permission. However, there must be an authorisation from the chief environmental inspector, because if someone wants to store these waste for processing, they should have the approval of the relevant authority. Very often this is Whether it's an old-timer or a self-government. And I will refer again to the case of Zgierz, where, contrary to the regional environmental inspection, a decision was made to allow the disposal of waste, even though previously illegal waste was brought there. That's where the waste was mixed. And this is an example of a certain, I will say from this point of view, carelessness, and the relevant authorities will already assess how far this is carelessness and the penalty consequences it has. Importantly, every situation is properly monitored and, as in the case of Zgierz, cases of illegal movement are also reported to the police, the Border Guard, the National Tax Administration. Those waste that has been burning recently, whether in warehouses or in waste treatment facilities, as it was in Warsaw, where the waste ignited where there were no cameras, and the owner is an international company, a well-known brand - yet these waste ignited late at night - they were, ladies and gentlemen, sizes. In these various articles on the Internet, where we now have to dump specialists on this, especially anonymous ones, we are talking about spontaneous combustions. It's hard to imagine the closet lighting itself at night or any other old furniture or gum or that sort of thing. At this temperature, I don't think it's self-flammable, and not with this kind of waste. It is also worth to say that when it comes to these issues, in any case, when we have a fire, it is of course fire action, but also when we are dealing with waste, there is always a regional environmental inspector on the spot, whether it is hour. 4, is that an hour? 3. And from this point on, I want to thank all the provincial environmental inspectors for being there, but also the firefighters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who are involved in these actions. I didn't answer those... but I do have this information, so, plus, if you ask me...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u23	Please, Mr Robert Mordak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u24	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question because you said we're bringing in 377,000. t every year to Poland, so this is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, but let's take that number, like you said. ...more than 1,000. t per day. Therefore, is there any control of this waste at the border? Because from what you've explained, I understand that they're in the landfills and they're just out there being moved, controlled, etc. Two more lines. As for self-ignitions, we predicted this situation last February and pointed out that landfills in Poland are not properly degassed. Only 6% landfill gases shall be disposed of. And just because they don't burn every day doesn't mean they don't poison the environment, because these gases keep leaking. We don't see them, and our families, our society, are poisoned. And that is a serious problem that should be addressed. Him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] appeared in the UK, after its liquidation the landfills ceased to burn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u25	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u26	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to what's legally coming, like I said, it goes directly to the installations that process it. Storage sites, landfills, warehouses, RIPOK-and these are all very different installations. Installations for the processing of waste batteries are also a completely different installation. And that should be emphasised. Because there wasn't a legal landfill on fire. I'm looking from the perspective of all these events. [[I'm sorry, there was a municipal landfill burning in Radom. This is a legal dump, 3 ha...]] Sorry, thank you for the supplement. In general, when it comes to what you say about degassing, the Ministry of the Environment in all its work, even when it was the Renewable Energy Act, supports this type of action, the national fund is also open to this, ready to support this type of action, because we as the Ministry of the Environment believe it should be degassed. And the degassing of the landfills takes place. It is clear to me that these measures must also be supported in these areas, so that methane can be used in particular. It's obvious. But I want to say what should be done in the light of European law as well. We have Żywiec, for example, and in Żywiec there is no problem of degassing at all, because bio waste is not mixed, ladies and gentlemen. That's the consequence. not to introduce waste segregation where the bio-waste stream was not isolated. Since 1 July, an appropriate regulation has been in force, many cities have already been included in the system, and a new stream of waste has emerged - bio, which can also be used energy-efficiently, whether by fermentation or composting. And it's like it's gonna reduce the gas problem in landfills, because if there's no bio-waste that's the basis for gas production, this problem will disappear. This does not mean that these old or closed landfills still need not be monitored and should not be degassed, as is the case. If that's not the case, it's the right thing to do. Each storage site shall have its instructions for the storage site under which such measures are foreseen. The question raised by the RES Act is whether it is profitable for the entrepreneur. It's a question of certificates, etc. However, this is kind of a separate thing, and as far as safety is concerned, in every situation, as mentioned, we have mobile stations on site that measure pollution. When it comes to these fires that have been recently, very often this cloud of smoke and temperature have caused pollution to migrate into the upper layers of the atmosphere, where there has been dispersal. Our mobile stations did not indicate crossings, but firefighters worked in gas masks and special cameras at the site. So it was a local threat, but fortunately, based on the information from the modern equipment that the Environmental Protection Inspection has, we have not identified such threats to the surrounding population. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u27	That's it, right? Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Modern Club: Mr Mirosław Suchoń will be the first and Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will be the second. The question concerns the validity of the retention, legitimacy and recording of data of persons taking part in meetings with the Prime Minister, Ministers, PiS Members who are asking questions about the violation of the rule of law, the raising of taxes by the current government and the situation of people with disabilities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński will answer. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! April 28, Zgierz - 1 person, White Podlaska - 3 persons. May 13, Grodzisk Mazowiecki - 1 person, Kielce - 2 persons, retention of cards, Witnica etc., examples can be multiplied. All persons have been demeaningly detained, identified, and their data - written down by police officers. The reasons are terrifying: the task of an inconvenient question to a Member or Minister from Law and Justice, holding a card with an inconvenient question or, attention, taking photographs during such a public meeting. High Izbo! Members' activities are public, citizens have the right to expect questions they have asked, even difficult ones, to be answered. These are fundamental rights deriving from the Constitution and regarding the transparency of public life. Meanwhile, pissing on people asking questions to the police, PiS tries to intimidate Poles and Poles. Moreover, at that time, something bad may be happening elsewhere, but police officers must follow orders to arrest people who ask uncomfortable questions to Members - PiS politicians. Therefore, we have questions. First of all, is it true that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has issued guidelines to the police regarding the recording of personalities of persons who ask inconvenient questions to Members and Ministers of the PiS? Isn't it true that the Police Headquarters have given the voivodship headquarters guidelines on the protection of Members and Ministers of the PiS against uncomfortable questions from citizens? On the basis of which regulations are police officers present during meetings with PiS Members? Where do the police get information about the date and place of the meeting? How are people selected to retain, legitimize and write data during meetings with Members and Ministers of the PiS? Is the task of an inconvenient question for the Member or the Minister of PiS the only criterion for stopping, legitising and writing such a citizen? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And for what reasons do the police apply different standards to people who ask questions to Members, ministers or the Prime Minister of Law and Justice? One of the tasks of the question stops, and others leave without any problem slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u29	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In connection with the question of the Modern Posel Club, which included a political and false thesis, actually thesis, because these questions were more, I would like to stress very strongly that during the meetings of the Prime Minister, Ministers and Members of the Party, Law and Justice with citizens did not take place, I repeat, there were no cases of detention or legitimacy of persons due to questions concerning the violation of the rule of law, the raising of taxes by the current government and the situation of people with disabilities. [[That's not true.]] Because that's the main question. This accusation, once again, is absurd, is purely political and is calculated on political results. This is actually not a question, but a thesis aimed at manipulating public opinion. This is also part of the disinformation campaign implemented by the total opposition not from now on. Let me remind you that one of the police's statutory duties is to protect security and public order, including ensuring peace in public places and detecting and prosecuting crimes and offences. That's what Art says. 1 paragraph 2 points 2 and 4 of the Police Act of 6 April 1990. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are you doing? How do you treat your citizens?]] [[In a humiliating way, you treat...]] Do you want a Member, a Member, or do you want a Modern State, perhaps from the Platform - that is, it seems, a coalition - so that the police do not react in a situation of violation of the law, the existence of behaviours that are treated in the Code of Offences or the Penal Code? Is that what the opposition wants? [[Voice from the room: This question task is validated?]] I would like to remind everyone who is so eager to defend those who violate the law today, because you are defending those who violate the law. At that time in Tarnów the meeting of politicians of the PO with voters was interrupted. Those who interrupted the meeting and shouted insulting slogans only calmed down after the police arrived. They were also identified and written by the police. Do you know where the president of PO Grzegorz Schetyn was at the time? He was just at that meeting, and immediately afterwards he demanded that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration take steps... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Of course, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u31	Minister, I apologize for disturbing you, but Members do not ask a question about the times of the Civic Platform's rule, they ask about the current state of affairs. Therefore, I would ask you to focus on the answers to the question asked. The question is not about the times of the Civic Platform's rule. If you continue to focus on another subject, I'm not sure you're answering. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Your marshal, you're the same option, I understand, and you're censoring me. Please don't do this. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But this is insinuation!]] No, I'm not censoring, I'm listening to what you're saying. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Please, Marshal, don't do this and count off the time. Minister, no, there will be no countdown. I'm asking you to... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: You're taking my time now. ...focusing on giving answers. I won't prolong your time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Mrs. Marshal! You're censoring my speech. You can't do that. Please don't censor my speech. The Member has the right to ask the question he wants. I answer them, and please, Marshal, count off the time. [[I'm asking you to answer the question.]] Grzegorz Schetyn... This is your way of conducting the proceedings, Marshal. Grzegorz Schetyna was at this meeting and immediately afterwards he demanded that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration take steps towards those disturbing the meeting. He also said that the PO does not want to conduct political discourse in this way. Neither do we. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But this is not the answer to the question.]] [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: What does this have to do with taking pictures at the meeting?]] In January 2017, the opposition opposed those who interrupted meetings of politicians with residents. A year and a half later, the opposition's view of the twin situation changed 180 degrees. Why? Because this time it's about meeting law and justice politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! In May 2009, when the trade unionists protested in defence of their workers' rights - I do not want to remind you in detail here because there is no time - then Prime Minister Donald Tusk commented: Power should not feel helpless or powerless when the law is broken. When the law is violated, we try to react decisively, which does not mean violently. Didn't they react violently back then? That's the question. I repeat, your Marshal, the High Sejm, under the rule of Law and Justice, the police in Poland are not after anyone and will not pursue for political beliefs and questions asked at meetings. On the other hand, it must react and react to illegal behaviour. [[All you have to do is intimidate.]] Failure by the police to respond to a violation of the law would result in a failure to act or even to fulfil their obligations, i.e. an accusation of crime. Failure to respond effectively and adequately to police response may result in an escalation of aggressive behaviour. As a result, there could be far more serious situations than disrupting political meetings with citizens. We remember the tragic escalation of aggression, the murder of Mr Mark Rosiak at the Law and Justice Office in Łódź in 2010. It was the only one in the latest history of Poland, but extremely dangerous and shameful, case of murder motivated by political hatred. I repeat, the police have a duty to respond to any violation of the law regardless of who is the organizer of the meeting, who participates in it and who is breaking the law. [[Minister, but questions. I asked six questions.]] Mr, you said, now I answer you. The legitimacy of persons is not in itself any penalty, but is provided for by law for police action in certain cases and does not imply mandatory criminal or mandate proceedings, although this may continue depending on the circumstances. The legal act - you asked the Member - which gives police officers the right to legitimize persons is the Police Act, and in particular its article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1). Read it because your marshal took my time, so I can't quote it. It is also reasonable here to quote the text of the article. 51 of the Code of Offences, which in § 1 penalizes the behaviour of disorderly public order. Whoever screams - these are the situations they refer to - noise, alarm or other freak disturbs peace, public order, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A night's rest or a scandal in a public place is punishable by imprisonment, restrictions on liberty or fines. In advance of the question, I would like to add that disorderly public order involves creating a state which, under specific circumstances, breaks the standards adopted, makes it difficult or even prevents people from acting routinely in places accessible to an undefined or specific group of people. Once again, honourable Members, High Sejm, I would like to stress that you can ask questions at meetings with the politicians of Law and Justice, with ministers, with the Prime Minister. All questions - every question - can be asked, but it is not allowed to break the rules of law, it must not interfere with public policy. [[Nobody was disturbing the order.]] And this disruption of public order that we are dealing with is done in a planned, organized manner. There are repetitive situations here, there are previously made banners, banners with inscriptions often unrelated to the subject of meetings. There's a repetition of the pattern of action. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Terrible things.]] [[Minister...]] Disruption of meetings takes place during, and especially at the end of, the official course of meetings. There are shouts, similar poetics, shouted and written on the banners of the passwords, which are not related to the subject of the meeting and are independent of the place, persons and time during which these meetings are held. [[But you're destroying the state.]] The participants also repeat themselves. There is a group of disruptors of these meetings that appear cyclically at many meetings. [[Mrs. Finger.]] There have been nine incidents... Please, Minister, proceed to the end of the answer. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...in connection with the meetings of the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Members of Law and Justice, during which 15 persons were identified. Only one complaint has been brought against the activities of officers, and always persons who are licensed are instructed about the rights they have, the right to lodge a complaint. Only one complaint has been filed so far. I therefore think that here, too, the Member does not take this into account, and it is a pity, because these are not any situations or mass... I ask Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz to ask another additional question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...especially when someone has a sense of harm... Minister, allow me to ask you a question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...but if someone violates the law, they have to deal with the consequences. In Poland, under the rule of law and justice, no one will and will be punished for asking questions. [[Bullshit. There's intimidation.]] Please, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[I've asked six questions, Minister, and you haven't answered one. That's your whole answer.]] I ask Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u32	Minister, you have not answered any of my fellow Member's questions. The fact that others are doing wrong should not be an excuse for the state doing wrong. Your statement can be treated as a confession. I understand you're driven by morals that if a neighbor steals, that means you're gonna steal too. Yes? I would like to say that citizens have the right to ask you difficult questions: why you do not care about people with disabilities, why you raise taxes, why you want to make Poland a pariah in Europe. During meetings which are organized throughout Poland by states, by the ruling party, which are supposedly open to all, there are really compromising behaviours of supporters of the state and just PiS politicians. Worse still, there are also disturbing behaviours of the police themselves, following orders from their superiors. E.g. May 26th in Sanok at a meeting with Marshal Kuchcinski, Ms Anna Grad-Mizgala [[♪ The bell ♪]] She tried to ask why the protesting disabled had not been allowed to leave the Sejm, but was not allowed to speak and when she returned, she was detained by a police officer. So I'd like to ask you some questions. Are you going to draw any consequences against police officers and superiors who are trying to intimidate people who want to exercise their freedom of speech and ask inconvenient questions for the current authority?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u33	Proceed to the end, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u34	Which politician ordered the police to harass people asking uncomfortable questions? Do you find it public scandal to ask uncomfortable questions? And finally, are you planning on changing the name of the police to the PiS Security Service? Because the way in which domestic change uses police to handle dirty political goals resembles the worst political times of the Polish People's Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u35	You're welcome, Minister, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u36	It is a pity that your Marshal of Modernity did not respond to those questions of the Member who should not have such content. There's no reaction here. I'm the one with the censorship. Marshal, congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u37	Exactly, Minister, I don't go into the answers and the questions... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Modern voters hear that. ...which concern the current situation... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Modern voters hear that. ...then the question isn't about history. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Will you let me answer now, or will you speak again instead of me? If you know better, then why are you calling me to answer, Marshal? Mrs. Member! Dear Members, I repeat once again: there are no situations where, for asking questions, even the most inconvenient ones, anyone has met the police's reaction. And the police are responding... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I have quoted this situation.]] Listen to me. But you won't listen because you have your thesis. The police react when the law is broken. I referred to the article of the Code of Offences, which is generally violated in these cases - Article. 51. And this is police action in response to this. I sometimes participate in such meetings, and I also see it, I also observe social media, and I encourage you to observe it too - the instructions that are formulated there for those who are to interfere with the meetings. This is an action organized by a certain political environment, maybe extra-parliamentarians, maybe with the support of parliamentary environments. I have one appeal to you: Come to your senses. Come to your senses because it doesn't do any good. We invite you to meet everyone - not only supporters of good change, but also those who have different opinions. [[To intimidate them.]] Ask questions, but keep your culture and legal standards. On the other hand, if you believe that the way to political victory of the current opposition is to disrupt the meetings of politicians of law and justice, ministers, prime minister, you are wrong. The voters reject you. The voters don't want that. I'm sure you won't gain this applause. These aren't random actions, ladies and gentlemen. Watch the social media, watch these meetings as they are similar. This is an organized attempt to disrupt the meetings of law and justice politicians and politicians of the law and justice government. The police - because it was one of the repeated questions - no one issued and will make any recommendations on this matter, especially from the Ministry level. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Policemen say otherwise.]] This is some completely lunar thesis made up by the state... [[No, we got that information from the cops.]] ...for what you want to achieve. There is no such action, there is no need, there is no possibility, there is no legal possibility or desire. It's just that the police are doing their job, and they're gonna react like the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk said that the police have to react when it happened back then. She'll always respond to the violation of the law. If the police hadn't responded, there'd be a charge that he's already condoning the violation of the law. But don't confuse, don't tell the public that questions mustn't be asked. You can't break it. You can ask any questions you want. It's not enough for each of these questions, even the dumbest question, the most aggressive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, there will be an answer. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There are no stupid questions.]] There will be an answer. But there will be no tolerance for disorderly conduct. And that's what you're doing on the program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u38	Minister, the only envoy who organized the militia, to which she admitted herself, was an envoy named Anna Paluch, who...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u39	Let's move on to the next question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u40	... organized a militia to make 2015...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u41	...which they'll ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u42	...disrupt the election campaign.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u43	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u44	A Member of the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u45	We move on to the next question that will be asked by Members Jan Kilian and Aleksander Mrówczyński from Law and Justice, on the Law on the Promotion of New Investments, which is another important element in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Programme - to the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology Mariusz Haladyj will answer. I ask Mr Jan Kilian to ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The existing support mechanism for new investments has been linked to the acquisition by the parties concerned of public aid, entities and business permits in the so-called "business." Special economic zones. This caused not only a lot of difficulties, but also deepened the differences in economic development of many regions of Poland, which was also noticeable in my Pomeranian voivodship. It is worth adding that the location of the investment will of course be important. Above all, areas with the highest unemployment will be supported. The higher it is, the lower the value of the investment will be due and more support will be given. This will not only create new, good jobs. Please answer the question: Is it possible to choose a location depending on the level of unemployment - not in powiats and in municipalities? Because often unemployment in a given district is at a higher level, but in individual municipalities it looks different, it is much lower. I have recently held a number of meetings related to the presentation of the new law and this question has appeared several times, so that this is a noticeable subject. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u47	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the problem of the diversity of powiats is recognised in this law and this law more strongly than the previous state of law also focuses activities at the municipal level. There are numerous solutions here which, first of all, strengthen the potential of municipalities and sensitivity, so to speak, for example, to the development of the economic area on the situation of individual municipalities, as well as cooperation between management boards of companies managing zones and local government. I would even say that this expectation is directly formulated at the level of the law, but also by the Minister of Entrepreneurship towards the boards of these companies. On the other hand, by responding specifically to the issue of changing parameters, if I understand this question correctly, from the county to the municipality, we also need to look at the current rules, both concerning the competences of the various bodies of the JST and the way in which the authorities implement their responsibilities, for example. As we look at it, this aggregation of unemployment data takes place at the level of the county. A lower level would require, I would say, the need for changes in regulations already of a systemic nature, because according to the District Government Act, the task of countering unemployment and activating the local labour market is dealt with by the district government. The best example here is the county labour offices. Therefore, the CSO also provides data at the level of the county rather than the municipalities. This is why we decided to assess the level of unemployment at the level of the county when awarding the location of individual investments in the Act, but this does not exclude other actions aimed at the level of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u49	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the next Member to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In recent years, much has been said about the labour market and the falling unemployment rate is often highlighted, but there are still regions in Poland with relatively high unemployment. Question: "How does the government want to stimulate investment in the area of the county-dominant Poland, in areas far away from the agglomeration?" We're talking about those areas where there's unemployment. At the same time, I would like to add that the investments related to the development of road and rail infrastructure determine development, reduce unemployment and are far too few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u51	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! I can interpret this in such a way that the question of the Member is about the principles of sustainable development. This is a principle that strongly supports this work, because it is very much exposed both in the Responsible Development Programme and in the Responsible Development Strategy. Therefore, the new Investment Act transfers certain activities to the municipal level, because the management companies themselves, i.e. companies that manage special economic zones, will now play a new role. As I mentioned at the first question, it is simply expressed in relation to the boards the obligation to cooperate with both municipal and district authorities in order to improve the cooperation of entrepreneurs with JST, between social partners, so as to increase this investment attractiveness of individual local government units, starting with the municipality. Economic development councils will be set up with each manager. These councils will include entrepreneurs, and representatives of local governments, and finally representatives of regional councils for social dialogue, where employers and employees are represented. The Council's task will be to propose, to evaluate measures that could contribute to increasing the attractiveness of investment. Therefore, it will be an obligation, or perhaps more, to issue recommendations that can contribute to the investment attractiveness of municipalities. Even so, I would like to say that, going down below in concrete terms, I would like to say that in the qualitative criteria that are contained in the State Aid Regulation, investment in medium-sized cities that lose their socio-economic functions will also be scored. The list of these cities is annexed to the regulation and is therefore an integral part of this act. That is where investment will be awarded in counties with unemployment rates which exceed the average unemployment rate in the country. As far as road or rail investments are concerned, it is only one sentence that they are primarily public investments, and the new investment law concerns private investments, hence in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's focused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to another question, which will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński from the Civic Platform, and the question is about breaching the provisions of the agreement governing the consolidation of the Polish chemical industry in the face of the threat of hostile takeover of a group of chemical and fertilizer companies by the Russian company Acron. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Enterprise and Technology, Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 6 years ago, as we remember, there was an attempt by a Russian competitor Acron to take over the Polish chemical industry. This hostile takeover failed, among others. because the full consolidation plan of the great chemical synthesis was announced and the shareholders of Azot Tarnów believed that this would be a better solution than selling their shares to a Russian competitor. In this way the Polish chemical industry was defended. The nitrogen plants of the Puławy Group played a fundamental role in this process, joining the consolidation process. In this announcement, there will be two pillars of the consolidation process: the Tarnów Group and the Puławy Group, implemented a joint group called Grupa Azoty. So it happened that within a year, you might say, the business hostile takeover failed. We have defended the Polish chemical industry. In fact, it must be said in this Chamber, in the Chamber of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, that Puławy defended the Polish chemical industry, because thanks to these announcements the call failed. And today it can be said that as a result of this agreement, which was concluded between the Tarnów Group and the Puławy Group in September 2012, later, i.e. in November 2012, there was a consolidation agreement, respect for both sides on a partnership basis, in terms of both development plans, social agreements, trademarks and investment issues, and finally the issues of individual groups in different coordination, monitoring and representation groups on individual companies' boards - 50% each. This agreement is not being implemented today. This agreement, you can say, has not been implemented since 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is unfair, unlawful, because the agreement is not respected. This is wicked because of Puławy's contribution to defending the Polish chemical industry. Please, Minister, intervene in this matter. Actually, I'm not asking, but I'm asking you to intervene in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u55	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! To respond to your request, I would first like to raise the question, because I think that, in the context of these questions, it is important that the effects of consolidation be achieved. There are two of these main objectives, perhaps one of the most important ones, which is achieved, apart from, of course, an increase in the security of the national economy and therefore an increase in state security. It is about contributing to development through consolidation of the chemical industry, but also to increasing the value of the Azota Group itself. Consolidation, i.e. the de facto implementation of the consolidation agreement that the Minister was talking about, firstly, favours investment in initiatives that improve the competitiveness of the economy. We have here, for example. efforts to reduce the national trade deficit for chemicals. We have, for example. Now in the Police, the construction of a complex, which is about to reduce this propylene deficit in terms of the plants there. We also have support for agriculture, because the production of fertilisers, the provision of additional services to farmers is also a result of the increased potential of the group. But there is, for example. innovation, because we have group cooperation and support for start-ups development or the search for innovative solutions. That's what we have on this macro level. At the level of the company itself, we also have very numerous effects, such as consolidation measures which generated, as the management itself estimates or even calculates, 710 million additional savings together. The operating profit for last year is almost 600 million, EBITDA - almost 1200 million, net profit - almost 490. Employment increased by 250 people, i.e. to 14.5 thousand. persons. The group develops, invests, carries out numerous projects. Consolidation brings concrete savings. Shopping, i.e. these qualitative changes, thus strengthening the negotiating position with suppliers. In production the exchange of know-how between plants, logistics, organized joint logistics facilities, sales, increased product offer or the possibility of carrying out large investment projects. And now I come to the question of this parity that the Minister was talking about. We're talking about a public company, so I have to head over here, or I have to, or I can, with the management statements. We have a common position of the Grupa Azoty and Grupa Azoty Puławy from May this year concerning these changes on the group's management board. And in this position there is a clear explanation that the consolidation agreement did not guarantee the function of members of the Management Board of the Azoty Group to the staff of the Grupa Azoty Puławy that this entitlement to indicate, to submit proposals was in principle declarative. And what caused the changes in the company's internal documents is a change of law. We have a hierarchy of legal sources. Of course, the bill has more power than the contract. We have a law on the management of property of December 2016, where a competition obligation concerning the selection of board members has been introduced. The consequence of this amendment was the statutory amendments and the adaptation to the rules of the generally applicable internal documents. At the moment, the Supervisory Board must conduct competitive selection procedures. It was carried out in April and May of this year. It's a public competition. By the way, none of Puławy's employees, according to my information, have volunteered, and of course there is no ban on reporting. Anyone in this open competition can come forward. Therefore, there is no failure to implement the agreement. And as I said at the beginning, first of all there has never been such a hard power that these indicated persons must later be members of the board, because there is simply the right to identify such persons. As for the risk of hostile takeover, of course the Minister is right that such a risk exists. It actually had this very measurable effect, the effect on happiness did not, but a few years ago there were very measurable actions. As a result of the observation or recognition of this threat, Azota was introduced into the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 2017, where the group was included in the list of protected entities under the Act on the control of certain investments. And on the basis of this law, thanks to the fact that Azoths are on this list, the control body, in the case of Azoths is the Prime Minister, may object by decision, e.g. justified by the security of the Republic of Poland... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I wrote that bill myself.]] ...so that this acquisition does not take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u57	Thank you. I'm asking you to ask me a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u58	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm going to say yes, you should've gotten a little help from the officials who prepared this information for you. Of course, they are accessible to the public. The whole point of the case you were talking about was to resist the hostile takeover. It worked. You've repeated the obvious. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, the two pillars have signed the agreement. When you tell me that the bill doesn't change anything, because the previous board members were also elected by way of the competition... It's about some elementary honesty. As I said, it is wicked, Minister, that the company that saved the Polish chemical industry, Zakłady Azotowe Puławy, is discriminated against in Grupa Azota. This is wicked, it is unfair, because two parties have agreed, and after two years it is really one of the parties that breaks the agreement. That's not fair. And the third thing is, all you have to do is come to Puławy Zakłady Azotowe employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the largest company with great chemical synthesis, the most effective, the most innovative. It is administratively irrational not to take such people to co-manage the entire company. Once again, I demand an intervention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u59	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister, I'm sorry, now we're just a little bit of a discussion here, or are we talking about a public company? We follow a statement from the board, a joint statement from the Management Board of Azots, both of them. Now, once again, the deal didn't guarantee those seats on the board. She authorized the board of directors... [[To be reported.]] ...to submit an application for the appointment of persons within this parity that the Minister spoke of. So this proposal was purely declaratory. Of course, the law is a universal act, so it also applies to civil or commercial relations. The competition's open. None of Puławy's employees volunteered... [[It's not even about the employees.]] ...so it's hard to make a charge here, too. Today, the Management Board is not entitled to make this request because the company's internal acts have been adapted to the law of the general public. The law does not work backwards, but it is known that to the previous proposals the law could not apply, but in the future it could. So here I don't see any unresolved conflict or violation of any rules. This is how the legislator recognised and, therefore, the companies have adapted their statutes. Thank you very much. [[I have to correct, Marshal. You didn't understand me, Minister. One sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u61	Well, well, well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u62	Thank you very much, Marshal. I understand all this, Minister, and I think you understand exactly what I mean. I say again: it is wicked from the point of view of even the sovereign powers of the minister as the principal shareholder. It is wicked that the company which saved the Polish industry, which is the most effective, with the highest competence, with the most efficient technological lines, with profits of more than 50% The profits of the entire group are not represented on the board for the benefit of the entire group, and you understand that perfectly. I regret that you must answer as you have answered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Members Jerzy Gosiewski and Adam Oldakowski on infrastructure investments in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship aimed at countering the communication exclusion of north-eastern Poland. This question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. Minister of Infrastructure Mr Andrzej Adamczyk will answer. Please, the question - time divided into half among Members - is asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewski and Mr Adam Oldakowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u64	Dear Marshal! The question is also asked by Mr Jerzy Małecki. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, National roads 16, 59, 63, 51, 57 and 58 in Warmia and Mazury decide on the opportunities for the development of our region, where there is very high unemployment, the largest in the country. The S16 road is the backbone of Warmia and Mazury, the remaining roads through the S16 road connect poor areas of Warmia and Mazury with the rest of the western part of the voivodship and the whole country. District roads in the eastern and northern parts of our region are catastrophic. Negligence in this regard has been going on for decades. It would be advisable to help counties that do not have any money for this purpose. In the powiats of the eastern part of our region, the difficult financial situation prevents the use of aid, the financing of modernisation of these roads, because they do not even have money for a mandatory own contribution. On behalf of our people and our people, we, the three Members of this region, ask for an answer on the timetable for working for a closer and further period in the modernisation of these national roads. Does the Minister provide for aid to local governments, especially districts that do not have money for their own contribution when it comes to modernising local roads? Mr Adam Oldakowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u65	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm the Member of Bartoszyc, it's Warmia and Mazury, and here these negligence is really serious. We are a border district, we have no good connection to Poland or Russia. We could use this connection. Besides, it's our turn in terrible condition, the Bartoszyce - Korsza connection and beyond. And we also had a connection between Bartoszyce - Kaliningrad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It could be used someday. Unfortunately, it's all neglected. These are years of neglect. That's why I'm asking for some kind of intervention and help for us. There is also the case of the excavation of the Vistula mine and the reconstruction of the port in Elbląg. We have no connection to this port because the roads are very narrow and weak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u67	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr President, for these questions. They address the great problem of exclusion of communication regions. I would like to remind you that the government is pursuing a policy of balanced, sustainable development. We want to provide similar opportunities for development for each region. To this end, the amendment by my department of the National Road Construction Programme 2014-2023 and July 2017 provided additional resources to include important investments located in regions with less accessibility in the list of tasks. It is mainly about those located in the international corridor Via Carpatia, also in the territory of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. The problems of the roads mentioned by the Members in the area of local affairs also concern the national, national scope, and the issue of a sustainable communication network. First of all, attention should be paid to the S16 expressway, which is the communication spine of Warmia and Mazury. It connects with the S7 expressway, which in the warmińsko-mazurski region was implemented almost entirely. In the Elbląg area, work is still in progress on the last episode, but it will soon be over. This is the same road S16, which over the years had more than 40 variants. We know how difficult it is to establish a corridor for this road. We have allocated an additional 28 million PLN to renew, update environmental decisions and other documentation for this route. It should also be made very clear here that the S16 road will soon be the subject of another agreement. We hope that soon we will sign a contract for the next section of this road, to Mrągów. As for the episode from Mrągow to Ełk, we are preparing environmental decisions. In turn from Ełk this road will be connected to Via Carpatia road. Via Carpatia is the road that connects north to south of Europe. It is a road that is often called the way of life, especially for regions that have so far been excluded, i.e. Eastern regions, Podkarpacie, Lublin region, Podlasie, Warmia and Mazury. In this context, the strategic actions of the government that will open up the region to the country should be considered. The implemented Via Baltica is another road that contributes to the opening of Warmia and Mazury to the road system of our country. And what's important is that we're doing the S51 road sequences. In December 2017, section S51 Olsztyn - Olsztyn was moved. Construction works are ongoing at the southern ring road Olsztyn, which will end in 2019. I would also like to remind you that the eastern part of Olsztyn's ring road will soon be opened. This will be in 2018, so it will happen very quickly. Western part - also in 2018, but a little later. The last node will be completed in 2019. I would like to stress very clearly here that 9 tasks are carried out in the Warmia-Mazury region, 213 km of express-class roads for an amount of more than PLN 8 billion. As regards operations on the existing network - 49 tasks for the amount of nearly PLN 700 million. We co-financed the municipalities with renovations or construction of new bridges - 17 tasks for the amount of PLN 20 million. As part of the co-financing of municipal roads, district roads - 136 tasks for the amount of PLN 141 million. It is also worth noting that we carry out tasks in the field of improving road safety on domestic roads in Warmia and Mazury. There's a whole bunch of these tasks in the process. Because of the limited speaking time, I will not mention them all. I would also like to draw attention to the reinforcement programme. This is an extremely important thing. Just because roads exist doesn't mean that all cars can move around. The country's enormous effort is to make these roads more bearable, and the region that has so far been excluded in terms of heavy car transport becomes an accessible region. He would like to draw attention to the implementation of rail investments. 3.5 billion PLN - so much is committed and secured resources for railway investments in the region. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the station program. There are 3 stations: Olsztynek, Nidzica, Szczytno. Works will begin in the current year. PLN 63 million was allocated to the station program in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u69	Thank you very much. Additional question. Which of your fellow Members will ask them? Mr Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u70	Dear Marshal! On behalf of Members Adam Oldakowski and Jerzy Małecki and my own, I would like to ask an additional question. Minister! It is true that in the nearest plans there is renovation, modernization of roads in the western part of Warmia and Mazury; this mainly concerns the connection between the capital and Gdańsk, and Pomerania. The whole central part of the voivodship in the field of both road and rail infrastructure It's still definitely lagging behind. It would be advisable to restore the railway link Olsztyn - Orzysz by Mrągowo. It would be useful to support the modernisation of local roads, mainly in districts such as Kętrzyn, Giżycko, Bartoszyce, Mrągowo, Węgorzewo and Pisz, because these districts in the field of road infrastructure do almost nothing because, as they claim, they have no money. Minister! What specific measures and what other assistance will you offer in relation to the district roads, to the districts in the central part of our region? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you going to restore Olsztyn - Mrągowo - Orzysz - Elk railway connection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u71	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the issue of local roads is concerned, I would like to remind you that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's programme of support for local road investments, the Self-Government Road Fund, is in preparation and will be launched in the second half of this year, as the Prime Minister said it would be. This programme will be the instrument supporting local road investments. Members of Parliament probably know that the budget cannot directly invest on local roads - this is the task of local governments. We can support these investments, but we cannot implement them directly, so everything needs to be done to ensure that the county or municipal authorities undertake these tasks, especially in the counties by the Member mentioned. As for road traffic on these main lines, I will repeat once again that the implementation of the S16 road will enable it to be included in Via Carpatia in the east of the region and into the S7 expressway in the west of the region. The S7 expressway until 2021 will become the road that we will be able to reach Warsaw from Gdansk and join the A2 motorway. Let me remind you that Via Baltica is also a road that partly connects the centre of the region... Or else, looking from the east to the west: it is about the middle of the region, Warmia and Mazury, through the S8 expressway connects to the A2 motorway. If it concerns railway lines, I would like to remind you: works on the railway line E75, Białystok - Suwałki - Trakkiszko, Rail Baltica, 1720 million PLN, years of implementation: 2018,2023; works on the railway line No 38, Ełk - Korsze, 578 million PLN; works on the railway line No 216 on the section Działdowo - Olsztyn, 390 million PLN, 2017/12022; works on the railway line No 219, Szczytno - Ełk, 2017/120, 300 million PLN; works on the line No 353, JabłonowoPomorskie - [[♪ The bell ♪]] Iława - Olsztyn - Korsze, PLN 200 million, completion time: 2015 and 2022; regeneration of the Gutkowo - Braniewo railway line, PLN 230 million, years of implementation: 2016 and 2020. Let me remind you that spending is PLN 3.5 billion. In the case of the Warmia-Mazury region, these are historical amounts, historical expenditures and historical actions by the government in the field of railway and road infrastructure, which are part of the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u73	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question to be asked by Members of the Civic Platform: Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska and - I have it written in - Mrs Dorota Sunday. Will the Member also ask questions or just one Member? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. The question concerns the consequences of the PiS regime in Arabian horse studs, is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The destruction of Arabian horse breeding in Poland began on 19 February 2016 and has been continuing ever since. The last installment is the video Janów Podlaski created to encourage participation in the auction in 2018. Well, there's a stork in this video, there's a squirrel, there's leaves, and there's horses out there somewhere in the distance. I understand that this is a symbol of the fact that you are not really going to publicly show these horses, because you are ashamed that you destroyed this breeding. There's a lot of questions. I wanted to start by saying that it has been 10 months since the end of the Arabian Horse Day in 2017 and since then we have not been able to find out what the specific costs of this event were, who was personally responsible for this situation and whether these people would bear the professional responsibility for all the irregularities that took place there. It was a party organized for public money and we demand an answer. We want to know how much the costs of organization of the Arabian Horse Days in Janów were and what is the ratio of these costs to revenues from the Pride of Poland auction. What companies of the Treasury co-financed that event? What is the role of Simone Leo, co-owner of the publishing house issuing the monthly magazine Tutto Arabi, in the trade of horses both from Michałów and Janów? How much money did the horses' studs in Michałów and Janów spend in 2017 on advertising and promotion in the publishing house?Tutto Arabi?? On what basis does this person, Simone Leo, represent himself as a P.R. horseman in Michałów? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many horses from Janów and Michałów were sold through Simone Leo, and what were the costs of this cooperation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u75	You're welcome, Minister, to respond. [[Something's not in a hurry, Minister.]] There is no rush here, sir, the content is important. [[We'll wait, we'll see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! To be honest, Simone Leo is a secret to me. I don't even know who this is, what is this character that you think you're feeling is circling these two studs that are involved in breeding Arabian horses. The Member makes it clear that 19 February 2017. [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska on the 16th.]] 2016 fell Arabian horse breeding in Poland. [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Beginning, Beginning.]] Member, the beginning... If someone had a little imagination, a little knowledge of how to breed horses, they'd never... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Mr Trela did.]] ...wouldn't have put up such a thesis about the fact that there's a process of the collapse of horse breeding. Because even after the results... after the last exhibitions, where Polish horses appear - whether at national exhibitions or at international exhibitions - it is evident that the Arabian horses of Polish breeding are really in very good condition and this breeding process is preserved as much as possible. So here I really wouldn't be able to make this kind of thesis that there's a fall in any breeding. If you wish... I may not be a specialist in Arabian horse breeding, but when it comes to horse breeding, I assure you that I have a lot of imagination, I know something about it. I have been engaged in the breeding process of another breed of Polish horses for several years, so I think I would have had a lot to say about it and I would never argue that by changing the management of the company there is liquidation or destruction of the breeding process. You really need to have a very serious basis for this. You have to know what it is... [[Why do you change these so often...]] ...the basic process to be carried out within the basic herd, which... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Auction settlement 2017.]] Mrs Janów Podlaski, the organizer of the August events was the Janów Podlaski Stud, while according to the agreement the Poznań International Fair served as a technical and logistics operator of the entire event. The billing model adopted between the organiser and the operator assumed mutual compensation for benefits and costs. The revenue from the event consisted of revenues from sponsors, ticket sales, rent of space, buy-in income for participation in the National Arabian Horse Show of Pure Blood, commission from sold private breeders horses, income from making available the space, revenues from sales of catalogues and advertising. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But numbers, numbers, Minister.]] In conclusion, the revenue from the organisation of the holiday amounted to PLN 1 732 631,08 and the costs incurred from the organisation of the holiday amounted to PLN 1 909 378,61. In the final settlement, the costs of organising the event were higher than those incurred by the organisation and amounted to 176,747.53 zł. These costs were distributed between three studs: 56 193 PLN - Janów Podlaski, 91 thousand PLN. - Michałów, 28 703 zł - Małopolska Plant Breeding. During the auction Pride of Poland and summer halls 13 public breeding horses were bid for a total of 549 thousand. Euros. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the buyers of two mares did not make a payment of 125 thousand. the euro within the time limit indicated in the Auction Regulation and did not receive the horses bid. In view of the above, the security paid in the amount of PLN 17 134, i.e. about PLN 4 000. The euro has moved on to the stud. Taking into account the costs of the organization, the organizational events amounted to PLN 176 743 and revenues from the sale of horses - 1810 thousand. zł, i.e. ok. 424,000. Euros. The event closed the profit of 1600 thousand. zł. This settlement was published on the website of Janów Podlaski Stud on 14 April, and was sent, among others. to PAP in the form of a press release. As far as these contracts are concerned, according to the Commercial Companies Code, there are three legal persons - in this case there is a board of directors and conducts the company's affairs. He made a deal with the Poznan fairs. Information on settlement The Arabian Horse has the organizer of this event Stud Koni Janów Podlaski and only the Management Board of this company can decide to disclose it. In addition, we inform you that the National Agricultural Support Centre was not the subject of agreements with other companies of the Treasury. There is a great deal of questions, as you yourself have said. We, of course, will answer these other questions in writing. However, as I mentioned, it is not really possible to argue that by changing the management of the company there is a destruction of Arabian horse breeding. You have to have a lot of imagination, what is breeding, what is breeding cycle, what it depends on, and then you can only put any thesis. Because after world and national exhibitions, the Arabian horse breeding state horses are really doing very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u77	Thank you, Minister. And I ask for an additional question from Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u78	Minister! The horse would laugh. There's a difference between 500,000. EUR 4 million and EUR 4 million? There it is. That's nine times more. That is the difference that millions of euros were left from the auction in 2014 or 2015 because this was how horses were sold, and now you are bragging that this is 500,000. The date of February 19 is not random, because this is the day you canceled those who knew Arabian horses on breeding. Since then, the board's been changing all the time. Don't tell me that it's exactly the same as it used to be. There has been an absolute degradation of Arabian horse breeding in Poland. We were out of the world's lead, and we were the first. But let us turn to the future because we have another auction ahead of us. I'd really like to know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who is responsible for these auctions which will be carried out in Janów Podlaski, Michałów and Białka in 2018. Who's preparing the offers? Will they be open to the public? Will we know the cost of this project? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What is the horse, Madame, everyone can see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've summoned me so well here. auctions from previous years. As I mentioned, the Member will receive a written reply to these questions, on the perspective of selling Arabian blood horses from Janów Podlaski, Michałów and the former White Horses, now the Małopolska Plant Farm. Yeah, for example. for comparison. In 2012 in Janów there were those horses sold... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: In 2015 - 4 million.]] ...for a little more, for less than 3 million. It was more or less comparable in 2017. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: There is more.]] Madam, the national animal exhibition this year takes place in Służewiec. The achievements include: Treasury companies supervised by the National Agricultural Support Centre... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: 500,000. You speak, Minister.]] ...with its breeding potential will also be presented, also with regard to these studs. And traditionally Pride of Poland will take place in Janów Podlaski SK the day after the national animal exhibition. The organizer is, of course, a stud as an independent economic entity, in accordance with the Commercial Companies Code. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: So you will present the costs, since you are the organizer.]] Madam, if you'll excuse me... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Very clever.]] ...I'm not gonna beat myself up like this. You're aware of what the Commercial Companies Code is. The representative in this case is the management board of the company. The Management Board of the Company as a Contractor may sign an agreement with the entity that will organise the project. [[Voice from the room: Who is it?]] And, of course, as this year for 2017, this information will be presented in the following year. [[Voice from the room: Minister of Agriculture.]] Thank you, Marshal. [[Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Mr Marshal, I forgot that I wanted to put these questions in writing. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u81	No, my fellow Member. The Minister has already heard that she is asking for answers. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: I have all these questions here.]] Then give them to the minister, except for the protocol, so to speak. We move on to the next question formulated by Members Jarosław Gonciusz, Wojciech Szarama and Piotr Pyzik of Law and Justice. The question is to support the activities of the health system to prevent and early detection and treatment of type 2 diabetes. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Goncier for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Diabetes is considered to be a civilizational disease that you have to deal with throughout your life. In addition to the heavy burden on the diabetic, the health care system also suffers from its consequences. Diabetes mellitus and its complications may result in loss of work opportunities. ZUS expenditure on benefits related to incapacity for work of persons with type 2 diabetes in 2016 amounted to nearly PLN 120 million, including expenditure on pensions - nearly 79 million and expenditure on sick leave - almost 36 million. At the end of 2016, the number of patients with type 2 diabetes according to NFZ data amounted to over 1600 thousand. people, with an upward trend. The total cost of treatment for patients with type 2 diabetes financed by the NFZ was 1700 million in 2016. This is an 8.5% increase. in relation to 2015. Due to the high incidence of diabetes disease and the costs associated with diabetes, I would like to ask: What kind of action is being taken by the Ministry of Health to develop a nationwide strategy of action aimed at prevention and treatment of diabetes and improving the availability of benefits for diabetics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u83	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Zbigniew Józef Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, Mr President, because the issue of diabetes as a civilization disease has been known for many years. For many years it has been the subject of an expert debate on the need for various types of solutions. I'm an educated doctor. The disease is highly conditioned by the awareness of a person with this disease. From my experience in medical school, I remember that this is a disease of intelligent people. An intelligent person is one who cares, being sick, about medications, in due time, takes care of those that are effective and, above all, takes care of the appropriate diet, about properly rationed physical exercise, general lifestyle and eliminating all elements related to the widely understood health risks in public health, but in diabetes especially, the type of drugs, then this period of experience with diabetes is sufficiently long. The data that you have provided on the costs of the National Health Fund indicate that they are high enough that we should focus on the preventive measures suggested here as well. And I would like to remind you, because perhaps it was in this whirlpool of various kinds of work carried out by the Ministry of Health that the Minister of Health missed that on 5 March he set up a team of experts at the Ministry of Health, who is developing proposals for solutions in the field of organizational standard in diabethology. This organizational standard in diabetesology will be developed by the end of August. This is what was mentioned here, i.e. the nationwide organization of both the therapy system, the care of the sick person and the preventive system. Here, too, in the framework of this arrangement establishing the team at the end of August, standards will be developed which will form the basis for the preparation of a draft regulation on the organisation of health care in the form of an organisational standard. Possible recommendations on medical procedures developed and adopted by the diabetic society, which mainly participates in this work, can be announced by the Minister of Health as part of the guidelines also for application throughout Poland. Here, on the other hand, is the procedure of verification by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, resulting from the Act on the provision of health care financed by public funds. This protects us from introducing specific solutions that do not have a properly proven health effect. As part of this work, a broad team of experts dealing with basic health care is also included in the team. And here we want to prepare far more solutions at different levels of disease, which is also at the stage of identifying people who are at risk, who already have glycosylated haemoglobin levels close to this limit as a basis for identifying diabetes. These people we want to identify and appropriate preventive actions then carry out, which will also be financed by the NFZ, mainly within this organisational standard. Then we have a question of how to coordinate the care of a patient already diagnosed with diabetes, so that both pre-insulin treatment and treatment with insulin alone occur at an appropriate stage, at the beginning of symptoms, because medically speaking, complications of organs are the most difficult element in diabetes, e.g. limbs, blood system, vision and a number of others. So that here these elements are currently being developed. In August we will present this programme for public discussion, debate. I am counting on the involvement of people working in this team, that guidelines will be developed as soon as possible, so that both the POZ nurse, the family doctor, the diabetesologist in the diabetes clinic as well as the internists and the specialist medical examiners will know exactly how much different financial facilities can be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u85	Thank you very much. And I would like an additional question from Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Patients with type 2 diabetes call on parliamentarians, certainly also the Ministry, to see the problem of access to innovative drug therapies, among others. long-acting insulin analogues. This medicine prevents hypoglycaemia, a serious complication of diabetes. Currently, long-acting insulin analogues are refunded only when the patient has already had complications. This sometimes leads to dangerous and paradoxical situations in which desperate patients lead to such complications in their body to gain access to safer medicines. Hence the question: What Ministry plans to act in this respect and does it also consult patient organisations to meet their expectations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u87	Thank you very much. And please respond to Minister Zbigniew Joseph the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u88	Thank you again, Marshal. Here, too, a lot more time would have to be spent on the refund of these insulin analogues, especially insulins that are medium-term and long-acting, because these are the elements from which to finance on the scale that is desirable, actually as a system we have problems. I'll start by working with patient organizations. Diabetes is indeed a disease that integrates local communities, and basically in most counties we have certain groups of people concentrated in thematic associations often, which as if they were dealing with it, and we meet with their representatives on an ongoing basis. This is a group that actually brings a lot from the perspective of the patient and his needs. This does not change the fact that the refund scheme is set at a certain level, 17% in the income of the NFZ. The allocation of these measures must therefore be appropriate. The reimbursement procedure in Poland is also known, because it is an entity that wants to distribute medicines, must submit a specific application supported by an assessment of clinical efficiency, i.e. safety of the therapies used, as well as two additional elements, i.e. economic analysis and an analysis of the impact on the budget. For several years we have had a problem especially with this third analysis, i.e. regarding this budgetary impact, which is simply often too big, simply impossible to finance. However, I would also like to point out that in some situations the amount of refunds in the six areas where insulin and human insulin analogues are used increased in 2017 in proportion to 2016 by slightly more than a percentage of the increase in the NFZ budget. This is the amount, as I count here, about PLN 30 million more. A number of applications for reimbursement have been received by the Ministry of Health. As regards the establishment of an official selling price for preparations such as: Liraglutidum, the President of the Agency on 11 September 2017, recommends that the refund of this medicinal product be paid on condition that the comments relating to the period followed by an assessment of the effectiveness of the therapy in accordance with international guidelines are taken into account. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president here proposes a number of medications... I will leave this work to the Member so that we can just get acquainted if we can make an appointment like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. We move to the next question - question number 10 - drawn up by Barbara Dziuk, Jolanta Szczypińska, Grzegorz Wojciechowski and Maria Zuba from Law and Justice. The question is to include international scientific journal databases in the evaluation of the quality of scientific activities. The question is addressed to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u90	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took the liberty of asking this question because many groups, scientific circles, asked me to clarify my doubts. There are some kind of questions here. Is it true that negotiations are being conducted to enter the Scopus base, an international base indexing one of the largest corporations in the field of scientific publications and information Elsevier? What are the costs of entering this base? And is it true that the previous Minister, Minister Kudrycka, was working on this plan, who wanted to bring Poland's science into colonization in the previous government, and today her proposals are still valid? I would very much ask you to answer the question: Are such practices used? As part of matching Polish science to European requirements, are activities carried out to determine scientific presence in foreign and not Polish databases? Elsevier, one of the world's largest scientific publications, deals with publications in the fields of natural sciences, medical sciences and science. He's a monopolist who, as you know, makes financial profits and demands huge amounts from scientists. Do we, as Poland and as a developing country, have traditions in shaping scientific elites, agree that the language of written works is primarily a foreign language? This means that Polish language is treated as second-class language, because English is more important. What do these issues look like? I would really ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u91	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Müller.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say briefly about the draft Law on Higher Education and Science, because in this context these questions are being raised. One of the most important aspects of the rules being built and the concern of the Polish government is that Polish scientists, Polish science, Polish research have an impact on world science. The ambition of Poland is that Polish research in the field of social sciences and humanities should affect not only Poland, but also other countries, in particular European countries, as you can see, which is also realized by the scientific powers of Western countries, as well as the impact of research, also on research issues in Poland. In writing, I have a few questions that I would like to answer directly, and then to conclude on the general issues relating to the evaluation of science. Firstly, only one database will not be taken into account in the evaluation of research, which will be carried out after the entry into force of the new law. That information I'd like to comment on. Of course, the Scopus base, which is considered to be one of the most prestigious scientific bases in the world, will be taken into account in this evaluation as well as the Web of Science base, i.e. the competitive base for this Elsevier company. In addition, we are considering in the framework of the regulation taking into account other databases, so here there is absolutely no monopoly of one company, which would be the only one to be included in the list of these databases. Further, the question arises as to whether the emphasis on the international databases of magazines is not a threat to the Polish language and whether other databases will be included in the evaluation of scientific activities, in particular the Polish journals. Firstly, I would like to stress that in international databases there are several hundred Polish scientific journals, including magazines written in Polish. It is not true that foreign language is imposed as a publication language in international databases. International databases operate in such a way that they are indexed within a single database, but magazines can be written in national languages. And more than 100 Polish magazines are already written in these international databases in Polish, and as far as other publishing languages are concerned - several hundred, e.g. journals such as the Polish Language, the Philosophy of Science, the Strategic Review. These magazines could be replaced by a whole bunch of them. It is our concern that as many Polish magazines as possible be included in international databases, those Polish magazines which are already published, so that they affect international science. In particular, this issue is seen in the historical narrative. Polish publications are missing in international databases, which are quoted. We have very good historical publications that are passed on to the local market and play a very important role in the dissemination of historical knowledge. or at all knowledge of humanities, but our concern is that this impact should be international, in particular in the field of historical truth. Here, we must say, we have a big role to play and the presence of Polish scientific journals, especially historical journals, in international databases allows this impact to be visible and above all real. On the other hand, outside international databases, which will be included in the scientific evaluation, the Minister will select 500 magazines in the competition procedure, which will be scored as if they were already in these international databases. This is primarily addressed to humanities magazines, social magazines, so that magazines that are not yet in international databases are scored as if they were already in them. More importantly, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education will allocate additional funds to ensure that these journals are in international databases just so that we as Polish scientists can influence international science as a Polish academic community and in such a way that this impact is greater than ever before. So this is a very important thing. This 500 magazine program is very important. And here I note, these are magazines published also in Polish, so there is no concern about such publications. I would like to stress that as part of the evaluation regulation we will also promote scientific monographs, which are published in Polish, are published by several hundred Polish academic publications. And I would like this declaration to be clear today. from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, that this list of publications will include all academic publications that currently operate in Poland. In total, these publications are several hundred and the publication of monographs in them will be scored in the framework of the evaluation of scientific research. As for the basis of POL-index quotes, which was actually built, its development makes no sense, that scientific research has shown, bibliometric analysis, that this model is not effective. First of all, we in the evaluation of research do not use, in principle, the quoting index for the award of scientific categories. This only applies to the best scientific journals indexed in international databases, so keeping the POL-index base in the current situation would simply be unnecessary expenditure from the state budget. We need to make sure that our magazines are seen on the international stage, and it is much better to allocate the money that was intended for POL-index to scientific journals so that they have the resources for their development than to use it to build another IT system. We are, at all, good at building different information systems, which later do not bring many benefits. It is better to use this money for Polish magazines to be visible in the international arena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u93	Thank you. Please, the additional question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u94	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank you very much for explaining. On the other hand, the scientific community is very concerned and it is hard to be surprised, because its achievements, which so far Poland has brought to world science, are difficult to eliminate or not to take into account the costs that have been incurred just for indexing, all the more so because these are very important scientific bodies. I would also like to tell the Minister that scientists in the world, Germany, the US and Finland are protesting against Elsevier. And here the question arises - right - about the costs that we will, yes, bear in connection with publishing in our language abroad, which are very important. On the other hand, we must negotiate so as not to expose ourselves to very high costs by using [[♪ The bell ♪]] present publishers so that this is for the benefit of both science and public spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u95	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u96	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to explain that the scientific achievements of Polish scientists who published in 2017 and 2018, because these are the 2 years that are covered by the evaluation period, will be taken into account on the basis of the amendments presented by the Council of Ministers and have already adopted the Sejm Committee, on the basis of the existing rules. So there is no concern that the achievements of scientists who have published in the current journal lists will in some way be wasted as part of the evaluation that will be carried out soon. I would also like to stress in the context of what you have said about the protests of the scientific community in other countries that we will not have Scopus as a monopoly. And this is the cloud of this solution, that we cannot afford a monopoly, we are well aware of it, and therefore we are building our own list of magazines, which are to function independently of international bases on the Minister's list. On the other hand, the scientific achievements, the outstanding scientific achievements of Polish scientists should be promoted as widely as possible in the world. What is the challenge that is facing the area of Polish humanities and social sciences is going out of the country with their achievements, and we have something to show for it, so this is the way to encourage publication in these bases. I would like to stress that finding myself in an international database looks like this: There is a Polish scientific journal published in Polish. It is simply entered into international databases. We don't publish in foreign magazines. We publish in Polish magazines, only those included in the list of international magazines. Thanks to the fact that they are on this list of international journals, they are found more quickly in the case of scientific analysis. A simple example. We have a historical conflict in terms of understanding some historical event, Poland has one position, a country - another position, a scientific debate in the world. If scientists are to take into account the achievements of Polish scientists, historians in their research, then they must have a way of finding this. That's how international databases are. They are simply literally typing research topics into the search engine, and at this point scientific articles, publications on the subject are displayed. Without this possibility, scientists around the world can't see our publications. And that's the main problem. We must be visible in the world when it comes to Polish scientific publications, especially in social sciences and humanities, because other teachings are hard sciences in which research looks different. We've been in international databases there for a long time. And here also from the point of view of the interest of Poland... We have to say to ourselves: In the interest of Poland, it is in the interest of the Polish nation that we should be seen in international databases for publications concerning Polish history, culture and issues related to social sciences widely understood, including in law and other such fields and disciplines. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u97	Thank you, Minister. We move to the question of the last one, formulated by Iwona Michałek, Michał Cieślak and Grzegorz Piechowiak from Law and Justice, on the scope of helping small towns to build pitches and gymnasiums - the question to the Minister of Sport and Tourism. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The media reports show that 2018 is the year in which the Ministry of Sport and Tourism plans a number of projects to promote sport in different age groups and expand and facilitate access to sport infrastructure. The greatest restrictions on access to the above mentioned. infrastructure is particularly present in small towns and municipalities, which are faced with various, sometimes larger, smaller but always budgetary problems. The fact is that physical education classes should be conducted under good, decent conditions, so that not only children, young people of a given community, but also residents have access to it. It is about attractive and well-equipped gyms, but also infrastructure around schools, accessible to the public. Given that local municipalities are facing budgetary problems, they are unable to conduct various projects themselves, apply, ask for assistance from the Ministry of Sport. I would therefore like to ask: What are the plans and plans of the resort to increase the expenditure on modernisation in municipal gyms and sports facilities in general? And second question: How can local authorities be encouraged to modernise existing training and public sports facilities and help them to do so?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u99	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Mr Jarosław Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to say briefly that the focus of the Ministry is to constantly increase the expenditure on infrastructure development, especially where there are white spots, in order to eliminate this. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, depends primarily on the lottery players actually, I'll start with this... [[So you have to play.]] ...because the Physical Culture Development Fund is a fund created by players, which we later distribute, among others. It's for infrastructure. The development of training sports facilities remains one of the main priorities of the sport infrastructure development policy pursued by the Minister of Sport and Tourism. In 2018, meeting just small towns, these towns, where there are a lot of these white spots, announced a programme of Sports Poland - A programme for the development of local sports infrastructure, in which it was possible and possible to obtain funding, among others. to carry out investment tasks aimed at improving the state of the training sport infrastructure, intended for the implementation of physical education classes, while serving local communities to actively spend their leisure time as well as, where possible, to compete with sports. Within the framework of this programme, 936 applications were submitted for a total amount of PLN 1065 million, of which as many as 2/3 concern training infrastructure. These proposals are currently being examined and I would like to say to you that the deadline was first until the end of June, but we are unable to do so and we are planning that by the end of July, I hope, we will examine these proposals and announce the results of the competition. In the following years, the Ministry plans to continue implementing programmes to support the development of training sports facilities. As regards the question of how local authorities can be encouraged to modernise existing gyms and build facilities and help them to do so - the Ministry encourages local authorities to implement such investments by announcing programmes where funding can be provided for this purpose. The amount of funding depends on the wealth of local governments and you know that this funding is 33%, 50% And 70%. Small towns, poor municipalities have the opportunity to obtain funding of 70% And 50%. If the G indicator in the municipality does not exceed PLN 667, the funding will be 70%. If the G indicator, that is the wealth ratio, is in the range of PLN 667 and 1334.90, the funding will be 50%. All municipalities, where it is above 1334 PLN, have basic funding of 33%. It seems to me that this is very fair because, however, in the case of these small municipalities, where the mayors, including some mayors, have problems with the short-term financing, funding of 70% or 50% takes into account this aspect of equalising the opportunities of small towns. With regard to the next question, what is the cooperation between local schools and the sports department to support the modernisation of gyms and the construction of new ones, I would like to say that the cooperation is mainly based on the application of local authorities to finance investments in the construction and modernisation of sports facilities. In the event of a positive examination of the application, the Ministry shall co-finance the investment tasks together with the local government which acts as the investor. It seems to me that local governments cannot, so to speak, be very complaining about us because we have very competent officials who always help. I am also approached by self-government officials and fellow Members, who can always be redirected to departmental management and staff, who will tell us how to properly write a proposal and how to properly submit this proposal. On the other hand, as regards these specific questions, there was a question about the Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Wielkopolskie and Świętokrzyskie voivodship, in 2016 and 2017 the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship absorbed funds from the Ministry for the amount of PLN 80 089 600 - 8th place in Poland in this respect, Świętokrzyskie voivodship 28 269 544 zł - 15th place in Poland, and Wielkopolskie voivodship - 105 650 906 zł - 6th place in Poland in this respect. What measures does the Ministry have in the current financial year for modernising municipal sports facilities, and how will this look like in the future? This year's budget of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism for the development of infrastructure, for subsidising infrastructure projects is PLN 516 million. As for last year, it was a little less - 463 million. So we've got about 50 million progressions. There would be much more to these measures, but it seems to me that there is great progress, because from year to year these funds are coming, as the Physical Culture Development Fund is fulfilling its specific tasks. I think there is one problem: these white spots are very much and more and more local governments want to apply, want to subsidize, wants us to subsidize good projects. We would like to see these funds at least twice as much, because I can remind you that in 2017 we spent 463 million, the submitted applications were 1027 for the amount of PLN 1 billion, and together with the strategy there were 1161 applications for the amount of PLN 2333 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why this year is very, very similar. There are far more applications for amounts greater than the possibilities of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u101	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for your comprehensive response. As for a few questions, you've already warned me, but I just wanted to ask you what are the plans for the future, because actually there are a lot of these small municipalities, and they're asking us to help with their efforts. How do you expect it to be? Will these amounts be increased next year or will the chances of small municipalities increase or remain at the same level in 2019?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u103	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Jarosław Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like I said, we want the resources to be as much as possible. It is not up to us, but it depends primarily on the state of the Physical Culture Development Fund. I'll just give you the data from this year, so you can take it back to next year. This year 1416 applications for open activity zones were received for the amount of PLN 98 million. At the moment, we have already announced the ranking of these proposals, and of these 1416 proposals, 792 proposals for 1500 sites have been successfully qualified, which gives us a total of 54 million. The strategic programme has also been decided. 88 applications were submitted for PLN 1065 million. 35 applications for the amount of PLN 225 million were positively settled. And what I said was: the Polish Sports Programme - 936 applications for the amount of PLN 900 million were received. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from these statements, one in four proposals has a chance of success, because we simply do not have enough money. So as far as the zones are concerned, it was positively considered every other proposal, and as far as the strategy is concerned, almost every fourth application for the amount of PLN 220 million. I am afraid that, as far as Sport Poland is concerned - 936 applications for 900 million - will also receive every fourth application, but this programme is crucial for small towns and it would be good if we could even look together in the budget of the country for this additional money, because it is really worth investing in infrastructure. I'm not saying that this year, but next year you might be tempted to do so, because this particular program for small towns, the program of Mon. Sports Poland, where we have a modernization program, where we have a school program, where we have a super-local program, such three sub-components, is the greatest interest, because it concerns precisely this Poland, because it concerns those places where there are no gyms yet, where there are no multi-purpose fields, where there are no things that serve the local community, both children, young people and adults. It is known that in small towns it is more difficult to have attractions, which can serve primarily to meet the needs of physical culture and so that we can use forms of what is called an active health resort, as in big cities. Therefore, it seems to me that we could allocate not PLN 516 million, but almost 900 million to this sporty Poland. But let's make it a real increase of 20%. A few more years and really disappear those white spots and the needs of all the kids, and all the local communities [[♪ The bell ♪]] in small towns will be satisfied in the field of sport and their physical activation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u105	Thank you, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 48 hours 11 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development concerning problems in the fruit and vegetable market, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u106	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The subject of today's information is caused by requests from farmers who are concerned about the difficult situation in several markets. This is mainly about the markets for fruit and vegetables, including a fairly strong potato market. The concerns are quite low prices... or you have to say clearly: low prices in these markets. This causes concern, this situation causes farmers to wonder what to do next. That is why we are asking the Minister to provide information on what the government has done over the next two and a half years in order to remedy this situation. These neglects are many years old, it is a matter of several years of neglect in agriculture. Here I say, among other things. on matters relating to potato diseases, about bacteriosis, which has been in place since 2004. In 2004, the European Union recognised our country as a country in which this disease, bactericosis, is present, and in these many years no government of any party has done anything about it. Nothing has been done and that is why it is only now changing, it is about declaring Poland or regions of Poland, farms free of bacteriosis. I would ask the Minister to clarify this case. The next worrying situation is - here I will say very gently - bringing from abroad by companies, by supermarkets of questionable quality products that are sold in these supermarkets. The control of these products, which flow to Poland, is not quite good. I also have a question here, Minister: At what stage is the merger of inspections? The idea is that one inspection should control these products so that the consumer is sure what products he buys and that these products are of good quality. Another problem, which is caused by supermarkets, companies, is that intermediaries often import products from abroad, as I said, of various, questionable quality, and even repack them into Polish packaging and sell them as Polish. And here too, Minister... Often, even if there is control, they prefer to pay, because it pays off, punishment and this continues. Minister, what action has been taken in this regard and what further action is the Ministry going to take? One more thing: young potatoes. There is no definition of a young potato, and very often it happens that once again companies that flood us with food of dubious quality, bring in young potatoes, and write on packaging that they are young, and sell them as young potatoes. Thus, our Polish young potato has a low price. It is very important that the product that is in supermarkets, which is on the market, is well marked. And here, Minister, what actions have been taken to mark our Polish products so that the consumer knows what product he buys and where this product comes from? This is very important. There are also mechanisms on the market, so-called. mechanisms for withdrawing fruit from the market. This is mostly about apples. How does this mechanism work, Minister? Does it work and how does it work? Are these products being withdrawn and used for consumption in some way? The point is to maintain the right price and, of course, to collect from the farmer this surplus of the product when there is yield on the market. Minister! These questions are questions that farmers ask us at various meetings. And that's why the doubts, the concerns of the farmers. That is why there is a chance to calmly present this topic to farmers, which the Ministry did at that time, what it still has to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And yet, Minister, one question that wasn't written down, and it's important. In the media, it was alleged that the Social Dialogue Council was not working. And here's the question: Is this the Council of Social Dialogue? Does it work? Is he dating? Is he discussing these issues? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u107	Thank you, sir. Please respond to Mr Krzysztof Jurgel's Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as agricultural markets are concerned, this is the basic area that the resort has been engaged in for more than two years since the beginning of its term of office, because one of the basic objectives of our action and government programme is to ensure the profitability of agricultural production. It is well known that we have a liberalised world market, that these mechanisms that are being applied to us are often dependent, as well as the result of European Union law. You have to move in these areas. As far as the fruit and vegetables market is concerned, there is a very large number of products for which it is difficult to establish common rules for action. As early as 2016, the Resort adopted an action programme on nine basic agricultural markets, including fruit and vegetable markets. This programme included and includes those activities that have been and are being implemented. At the same time, for each of these markets and the general resort programme, the administration is working on specific solutions. We have recently adopted a programme for the reconstruction or development of the beef sector. Now we are intensively dealing with the fruit and vegetables market. In the programme adopted, we point to the possibility of using the European Union's funds, the Rural Development Programme, from the producer group. All these instruments have been introduced and applied. It's being realized. These basic objectives are to strengthen cooperation between fruit and vegetable producers - we are talking here about the creation of producer organisations - the dissemination of trade on the basis of contracts, the shortening of the marketing chain, i.e. the elimination of intermediary links in the trade in fruit and vegetables, the sale by farmers, the reduction of the cost of producing fruit and vegetables - here we are talking about these instruments from the RDP - or the proper implementation of market support instruments. These actions have been taken, they are functioning, but it is clear that there has been a crisis in agricultural markets at the turn of the year. And here at the initiative of the association, i.e. vegetable union in one of the districts or potato associations, we have taken and are taking action to stabilise the fruit and vegetables market. Already in 2016, we started negotiations with Brussels on the possibility of exporting potatoes, because this is one of the main problems with potatoes. After a year, i.e. On 26 April 2017, I issued a regulation on detailed measures to combat and prevent the spread of potato ring bacteriosis. At this point, in agreement with the potato association, we introduced facilitations in sending potatoes from Poland to other Member States of the European Union. First of all, it was possible to send potato tubers without having to be tested if they come from a holding recognised by the State Plant Protection and Seeding Inspection as a place of production free of bacteriosis. Secondly, in the case of the dispatch of potatoes to other Member States under the existing rules for testing for ring bacteriosis, 200 units are collected, not 400 tubers of each 25 t, as has been the case so far, which has doubled the costs of testing. The obligation to seal the means of transport to which potatoes are dispatched has been waived. In this respect, as far as export opportunities are concerned, this process is ongoing. At this stage, farms may be free, but if checks show that larger areas are free of this disease, larger areas will be released. The second problem to be addressed is the issue of imports, exports, especially imports from the countries of the European Union, because as far as countries outside the customs territory of the European Union are concerned, all parties are controlled, and if the parties are of inadequate quality, they are referred back. As far as Egypt is concerned, for example, where a sluice was found, such a potato disease, we applied to the European Commission, because this is the procedure, so that potatoes are not exported to us from this customs territory. After the meetings, because I had several meetings with associations or producers from some municipalities on this matter, we tightened the control, increased the number of checks. I just have to say here that these checks, when I am a minister, are being carried out all the time, and now there is a need for social expectations to increase their number. And here I will refer to the question of the Member in terms of inspections. This bill has been in Parliament for almost a year now. I don't know why she's not being processed, because one of the problems is that, ladies and gentlemen, the health inspection... [[You can't make a deal.]] ...is not subject to the Minister - but there is a government, we are a government - the Trade Inspection is not subject to the Minister, and he is performing the tasks here. My inspections, PIORIN and IJHARS, are under the authority of the Minister. It's a good thing it's one subject, and I believe it's going to be passed. The law, once again, is in the Sejm, after agreement with social actors, with each of the actors. And that's why at this stage We've taken what's possible. On the basis of the demands of vegetable producers, including potatoes, we have already drawn up a law, as well as regulations, which are now the subject of the legislative process, on strengthening and improving control activities of fresh fruit and vegetables control services, including potatoes, and on increasing penalties for irregularities in this respect. It is a draft law amending certain laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out in relation to certain agricultural markets. Secondly, it is about identifying the country of origin of potatoes at all stages of trade, because this was not the case. There is already a regulation by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development amending the regulation on the labelling of the various types of measures. We are also introducing by regulation a definition of young potatoes, which will already be included in the regulation. The market situation is constantly monitored and further measures will be taken to control the quality of imported potatoes and other vegetables. We also included other services here, such as the National Tax Administration, the Police and the Road Transport Inspection. Those institutions shall carry out checks. And let me put it this way: The State Sanitary Inspection carried out 3363 inspections in the last time, the Trade Inspection - 95 lots of fresh fruit, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection carried out several hundred inspections, the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection - 1500 checks, where 12 irregularities were found. These checks are in progress. Once again, I would like this bill to be passed as soon as possible. It'll be better to operate here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Minister will have something to do with your marshal, yours.]] And these are, once again, actions, that are financial support, legislative support, because we are also talking about market organisation here. The problem that needs to be solved in Poland is the issue of a large number of entities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u109	Minister, thank you very much. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Two more sentences, Marshal. The Farmers' Cooperatives Act has been adopted. This is an opportunity to organise and create larger players that can be competitive on the market, like French or other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I therefore close the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fruit and vegetable market is one of the most difficult markets to regulate, among others. due to the high volatility of supply, significant dependence on atmospheric conditions. Unfortunately, with globalisation and low transport costs, products from remote regions of the world also enter into European markets. There are also difficulties with the right number of employees in the harvest. So it's a market, I'll say it again, it's very difficult. That is why the European Union decided many years ago to put market regulation on supply and demand - the impact on demand is much smaller, but as far as supply is concerned, yes - producer organisations who are most concerned about selling their products. It is in many countries that fruit and vegetable producer groups and organisations have a decisive voice in determining the rules for the functioning of this market. Prices are often determined by exchange, as in Aalsmeer in the Netherlands or Brittany in France. Interventions by the Union or governments often have the opposite effect, e.g. The withdrawal from the market of parts of products that go to the needy groups of the population is deregulating the market for those who produce them. In Poland, unfortunately, the level of organisations in fruit and vegetable producer groups and their market share is relatively low. In addition, the information we obtain from the media or from the National Public Prosecutor's Office tells us about fraud that took place a few years ago when investing in groups. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: What is the level of organisation of fruit and vegetable producers in Poland? What steps do you think should be taken to increase the role of producer organisations? How have the resources been used so far? What does the Ministry do to eliminate pathologies that embarrass Poland and Polish farmers? It's about extortion by various smart-ass spoilers of opinion to honest-working Polish gardeners, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u112	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to claim the blueberry producers. The area of this plant in Poland is approx. 2 thousand. ha. This is probably not much, but we are the largest producer in the European Union both in terms of crop area and in terms of crop quantity. In recent years, Kamchaberry growers have received financial support from the Rural Development Programme for setting up new plantations. Like any fruit and vegetable industry, this one has its own problems. I'd like to refer to them. Namely, since 1 January 2018, the European Commission has made it possible to register Kamchatka berries as admitted to trading and trade in the European Union. The deadline for completing this registration is 28 June this year, which is after collections. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a few questions. Namely, is it true that the Kamchatberry in Poland was registered as a ornamental shrub and should be registered as a edible shrub? In practice, this means that fruit collectors cannot obtain a special licence, a number authorising the purchase and export of Kamchaberry. I wanted to know who's responsible for not having the deadline met. Who's gonna cover the planter's losses? Is the resort considering the possibility of helping growers with Kamchatka berries and at what stage are possible actions of this kind undertaken by the resort? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u113	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I thank the applicant very much for mentioning some of the problems facing Polish agriculture today and which the Minister of Agriculture is not dealing with. I would also like to thank you for mentioning, among the years that he gave, speaking of neglecting the fight against bacteriosis, the years 2005-2007 when PiS had something to say, even a lot, and Minister Jurgel seemed to be Minister. But I would like to add to the few things that the applicant has said, even more. The Minister himself provoked this by saying that he is preparing a number of programmes, strategies, proposals. Few people know how many there were, what they are called - I certainly do not, nor farmers. He mentioned during his short speech that he would take care of, among others. restricting production in the fruit and vegetables sector; in this respect, it is much more effective than in implementing the programme. Because how else do you call what's happening on the fruit and vegetables market? This is another topic next to those that were touched. During the calendar year, employment costs increased by around 50%. in relation to what happened a year ago, because of the terrible rules that you adopted in one and the other law - in the Act on the Employment of Foreigners and the Act on the so-called. helper at the harvest - as we paid attention to. At the same time, with 50% wage rates rising, prices fell by several dozen per cent compared to last year. This means that you are using a very effective method of eliminating and reducing the production of fruit and vegetables in Poland, which will have far-reaching consequences. I would also like to point out that, alongside these problems, the subject of hiring workers. Please, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, go to the county labour offices where there is any concentration of fruit production, and see hundreds of people standing in line, as in the old days, for toilet paper or sausage. Numbers of 100 per day were issued and the waiting time for authorisation was several days. In this respect, you are ineffective, but when it comes to control, you are very effective. Not further than yesterday's call from a colleague who was unable to see him waiting for a positive decision to be made, directed 10 people to collect strawberries. He just stumbled into it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the control of the Border Guard who hit him with 27 grand. Evil punishment. In this respect, you are very effective. Request and question: When will you be effective in helping Polish farmers? Because you can't see that effectiveness right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u116	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! At a meeting in March with protesting farmers from the Sieradz region in the Council of Social Dialogue in the Ministry of Agriculture, a number of demands were put forward by farmers and presented to the Minister. There were postulates that referred to regional problems in the Łódź voivodship related to transport companies, which supposedly were to import to Poland in an unauthorized manner - and which were wrongly verified - vegetables and potatoes. Were these companies able to be audited? Has it been possible to verify the company that was involved in the distribution and packaging of potatoes in the district of Sieradzki? Then there were also demands to step up work on the increased control of the transport of agricultural products that go to Poland, and establish closer cooperation on this subject with the National Tax Administration and Road Transport Inspection. Has there been a pattern of cooperation between these institutions since then, Minister? Are such checks carried out on this subject? Here's another topic. Only transactions above PLN 3 million are recorded on imports to Poland. Has action been taken that would enable all imported consignments from the agricultural sector to be registered in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Polish market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u118	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for the applause. Finally, a local Member, we always support each other. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the last, both the cultivation of strawberries and other soft fruit, but also parts of vegetables were relatively profitable for Polish producers. Unfortunately, the changes, especially those concerning employed workers, which were introduced last year, but also the lack of care to safeguard external markets, have caused the current year to be dramatic for Polish producers of both fruit and vegetables. Minister, in your speech, you made such a somewhat desperate appeal to us parliamentarians, we felt that we were also against the opposition, so that we could help you with the legislative changes you are preparing. We're glad you're admitting that unfortunately you have problems in your own government. We promise that if anything is to work, we will be ready to support your actions, as long as it is activities that will really help Polish vegetable producers and generally Polish agriculture. The situation is dramatic today. There has already been a mention here of the consent to employ employed workers, on the other hand, we have huge imports from across the eastern border, for example. strawberries, gooseberries or currants. With this competition - when we have a problem with harvesting and selling our own fruits and vegetables, and on the other hand we have a powerful [[♪ The bell ♪]] outside boom - Polish producers simply can't handle it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I was shocked by the information I heard. I was hoping to find out something positive. I didn't find out anything. Last year I intervened, I spoke here about young potatoes. The problem with the young potatoes was to be solved, there were a number of ideas. Besides, in the election campaign, PiS had a number of ideas to solve problems in agriculture. Today we hear that we work, we solve, we think, we have proposals. Nothing's been done. And what is the situation with young potatoes today? I come from Podkarpacie, a region where many farmers live with these young potatoes and only live with them. A whole year's work. Today in Lublin, on the wholesale market, the situation is that you have to sell these potatoes for a week and their price is 60 gr. Today, at the beginning of June, Minister, the price is 60 gr, and here you are talking about marking, reducing tides, supply chains, etc. We heard that in the election campaign. You won the election because you promised farmers that you would solve this problem. It's a drama tonight. Today's drama, nothing's changed in this area, and you're laying your hands down and saying he's powerless. [[And what did she turn into?]] You're powerless. Answer the farmers. You're talking about increased controls. I just got a call from one of the farmers from that farm market. He says no one's been seen here since spring, no one's been in control. Our lovely potatoes are lying down, we're bankrupt. Potatoes are already beginning to rot in the fields, while we are importing them from abroad. No one's controlling it, and there's no way to solve this problem. Minister, don't drive. After Poland and brag about what there is no, just to take care of concrete [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're working because that's what farmers are waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u121	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As for what you said about potatoes, I must tell you that your agricultural policy on the size of farms, the fragmentation of these farms, holding on to the family farm, etc. do not promote the control of potato diseases, especially ring bacteriosis. In order to do this, the farmer needs to have enough crop rotation so that he can apply this crop rotation, while traders who process these potatoes need cultivation with farmers who produce more potatoes. These are hundreds of hectares, 300, 700 hectares. It's just that there are packages where chips and fries producers want to contract these potatoes. That's why it would have to be changed here. The farmer must apply this crop every 4 years and apply every 2, 3 years and then it promotes the development of this disease. On the other hand, when it comes to soft fruit, for which we are a potentate, I must ask you what Law and Justice and you, as Minister, have done to win employees today, especially from Ukraine - since 2014 we have just had a large economic growth, unemployment is falling systematically, there are no hands to work - to get them for soft fruit harvesting. How do you look at the future with regard to the Moravian programme, the strategy for responsible development? It focuses on technological growth. Are you thinking of introducing technological advances in soft fruit as well, adapting them to mechanical harvesting? Because we're such a tycoon, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should introduce this technology more and more in the soft fruit harvest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u124	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The problem in the fruit and vegetables market has existed for many years. I come from an extremely agricultural area. I care very much about Polish producers and that Polish food is competitive on global markets. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture is doing everything in its power to make a difference. I have a question for the Minister: What action has the Ministry of Agriculture taken to mark the questionable quality of products that are imported by Western companies and sold in supermarkets? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u125	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to repeat the words of the protesting potato, fruit and vegetable producers who on 30 May this year. all over Poland they protested and shouted, and they said clearly and forcefully: this can no longer be the case in Polish agriculture. Because today the Polish farmer is completely cut off from domestic and foreign markets. Unfortunately, trade in Poland is controlled by foreign trade networks, which are not interested in selling domestic agricultural products to Poles. Often the Polish consumer buys foreign goods as Polish, because these goods, which are imported, are repacked in packaging with the inscription: Polish products. I have a number of questions for the Minister, but one of the main questions is, of course, what penalties will be paid - in fact it is necessary to say directly - cheaters who cheat the Polish country into millions, who repack these products and block the trade of Polish producers, by cheating, making money on it. I would very much like to ask for an answer on the penalties applicable to such cases. The issue of potatoes and bacteriosis, which is imported in Egyptian potatoes, is also raised. This eliminates the Polish potato producer on our market and also on the foreign market. I have a question: What compensation will the Polish people receive [[♪ The bell ♪]] potato producers for being infected with bacteriosis? Last but not least, I have an appeal to Marshal Kuchciński to prevent the collapse of Polish agriculture. Marshal, remove from the freezer the law that lies within it a year, and help Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel and Polish farmers...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u127	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u128	...to correct the situation in Polish agriculture and the situation of Polish producers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u129	Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am an envoy from an area where mountain and mountain areas prevail. There is a great deal of fragmentation in these areas and, therefore, many areas are left behind. It's a few hundred acres. You could say it's 1 ha or 1.5 ha or even smaller. It's because it's organic farming. It can be said that they are very good producers, but when it comes to the cost-effectiveness of breeding, not this bulky one, it simply stops paying off and, in fact, it can be said, it's already dying out. There's a way. We've talked about this many times before so that these areas, these plots, can be managed. I'm talking about winemaking. Once again, I ask you to be more interested, because of 1 ha you can get about 30,000. Pure income. But you can't treat these producers that there's 23% of us, and there's 8% in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. when it comes to taxation, excise duty. That's all, programs that support... It's just this Byzantium filling these prints, all of this, there's no clear, simple formula, and that's very important in all of this. Something must be done for these areas - some possibility of being in these beautiful, wonderful areas - so that they can still function. Very hardworking people would like to make this kind of production. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Four years of embargo made fruit and vegetable producers... They invested at some point because all the markets were favorable. Very well developed and trade, and production. But now the producers are in such a situation that the investment costs must be reimbursed. We are still not strong enough in the markets, despite the fact that the production of fruit and vegetables is one of the best in our country, the healthiest... I have a question: Is the government going to help those producers who have invested, and who are now unable to cope with the repayment of liabilities, in any way, to intervene? I don't know, maybe it's a penalty loan, maybe a low-interest loan, but it's some form of help. Second thing, Minister. We brag about our food because it is very good and appreciated everywhere, only the least appreciated is at our home. Because we do not promote it ourselves, even though we have different signs: regional products, Polish products. We do not even reach out to our residents to realize that this food we produce - fruit and vegetables - is the healthiest and should be bought. We import from abroad, we allow imports of various things, food, fruit, vegetables, and we do not promote our own food. The government should, because that is the role of the government - to promote our food, our agriculture and thus to make our inhabitants aware. Are you going to do that, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Step up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Like some of my previous speakers, I would like to focus on the problems in the potato and strawberries markets. The first problem is that the price is lower than last year's. As far as strawberries are concerned, apart from the low price, the lack of a market for the East, or Russia, there is also a problem of the lack of hands to work during the harvest period, resulting in some fetuses remaining in the field. I know that the Ministry is planning legislative actions, including: on the indication of the country of origin of agricultural products at all stages of trade. And very well, because personally with such solutions I met many times in almost all shops and hypermarkets in England, where domestic agricultural products, apart from price information, were marked with well visible national colours already from far away indicating the source of their origin. I would like to ask if the Ministry is planning such legislative solutions, because I think that because we are a large and large country, perhaps this way we can help ourselves without looking at other markets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Mr. Mark.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a testimony that you're alone, no one else wants to sit next to you. Everything indicates that you'll probably be canceled. You have to deal with that. [[Clairvoyant.]] Because you're totally sinking Polish agriculture. You say that the Ministry's bill is in the Sejm - the Sejm where you decide everything. Marshal Kuchciński decides everything, so why can't you do it? And why you cannot do it, you will tell Mrs Sunday. But to the point. What are you doing to make products: fruit, vegetables, including potatoes - because I understand that when it comes to the European Union, free trade between the countries of the European Union, it is completely different - not coming to Poland from third countries? What are you doing? You're not doing anything. You guys were supposed to... [[What did you do?]] You guys were supposed to... Don't disturb me, sir. You said you'd take care of the Polish farmer. So I want to tell you that there is one thing that is said at meetings that I hold very much: you do not care about the Polish farmer. This is the essence of this. [[And before that, you cared.]] I have a question: What about the bill, do you have control over the bill that we talked about a long time ago about seasonal workers, that it needs to be improved because it doesn't work? Do you have any information on how she works, how people are admitted? Will Polish strawberries actually be in the field, or will they be harvested? Can these seasonal workers actually be used in connection with the introduction of the law? [[I think you can do it.]] As far as I'm concerned, you probably have no control over anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's the worst part about you being resigned, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ooh, strong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u137	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. She's not here. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm just coming from the Permanent Sub-Committee meeting on the merger of inspections. I would like to say to you, Minister, that even if you are my chair, you send me such - one card - information about employment and financial problems concerning all inspections of your subordinates, which include only the chief physician... Please, Minister... Veterinary inspection, seed and sanitary inspection work in the field. If you can't tell me what the problems are in the field, what do you know about these inspections? And it depends on the inspection of the certificates, how something will be tested, and it gives certainty not only of safety, but also of the fact that the quality of these products is adequate, which is the basic thing in export and promotion. Minister! Today I met with an inspection liaison, whom I will remind you, Prime Minister Szydło called, who made 10 800 gross for 10 months and got 40,000. The reward, and which was supposed to help combine inspections, monitor it. The bill is a year, we don't process it at all. Inspections are in a tragic financial condition. I already know why you didn't give me that information. I'll tell you why. Because the Veterinary Inspection is dying, there are no employees, there is no money. Today, at this committee meeting, we learned that the quality of trade inspection has huge problems and low employment, people are fleeing from here. You're responsible for this. [[But for their raises they do.]] You're the one who's been saying many times from this lecturer that inspections need to be combined. You supported me when I wanted to do this. I didn't make it. I supported you when you wanted to do this. Right now, there's a government attorney who's taking the money and who, as you say to me, is not subordinate to you. You're not responsible for anything. Plenipotentiary? - it's the Prime Minister. You don't know the rest. If I'm going to ask you if you have any problems, you're telling me you're not. Are you in control of all this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should ensure that veterinarians for bioinsurance have money for testing. This inspection is dying, and it is based on export and food safety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u139	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice have the floor. There isn't? There's no envoy. This is Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a fruit crop, for example. cherries and strawberries, however, growers and sadists complain that they lack hands to work, even though they offer good rates. What is the reason for this situation? Sadists and planters translate this, among others. 500+ programme and new requirements imposed on them as employers of earlier seasonal workers, and now - according to the PiS amendments - helpers of the farmer. Therefore, they are no longer allowed to make contracts for the work. This is a serious problem. There is a danger that the fruit-rich season will be wasted. Last Sunday, Prime Minister Morawiecki met with the farmers in Bialystok and said that he saw their problems and together with Minister Jurgel is working on solutions for them. But what kind of solutions? What are the solutions? What kind of ease? [[Voice from the room: And when?]] Will the fruit rot in the field before any mechanism is developed? Minister! You simply cannot handle the functioning of the agricultural market. Unfortunately, that's the truth. What are you going to do for farmers in the near future, and what are the programmes you speak so beautifully about? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u141	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not be original in this question, because this problem has already been raised here by the questioners, but also to me from time to time information about the fact that imported from abroad fruit and vegetables are repacked and sold as Polish. I have a question: Is it really true that this is happening? And if so, does the Ministry monitor and what measures or plans to take to stop and protect our domestic market? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u143	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Farmers face many problems in agricultural production. Many things have been said here today: potato diseases, other crops, low prices, high intermediary costs, which actually consume profits from agricultural production. But there are other problems that concern farmers. This is, above all, a severe lack of hands to work. Farmers with strawberry crops alert that some strawberries will remain in the fields, will not be harvested, because strawberry cannot wait a few days until there are people who will collect this strawberry. Can we afford such waste? There are still large reserves on the labour market in Poland. Has the Ministry of Agriculture established cooperation in this area? I think there are huge opportunities here to find people willing to work in agriculture during the excavation of various fruits and vegetables. We need to act quickly and very concretely. Workers from Ukraine are increasingly less interested in working in our agriculture, and the recent law on the employment of foreigners has brought huge problems for farmers. The wheel's closing. There's no one to collect the harvest. And the second very important problem that no one has talked about today is beekeeping, ladies and gentlemen. The farm resort treats beekeeping as a stepmother, and in breeding bees are very serious problems, even in Lower Silesia. Bees require... [[That's not the point.]] Unfortunately, it is the same subject, because bees need protection, because if there are no bees, there will be no crops, Mr President. Do you see this relationship or not? If there are no bees, human life will be at risk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u145	Thank you very much, Member. [[I applaud the honourable Member, bravo.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Anna Krupka, Law and Justice. She's not here. Mrs. Alicia Kaczorowska, Law and Justice. She's not here. Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u146	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have disturbing signals from members of groups of fruit and vegetable producers operating, among others. in the western part of the Lublin Voivodeship, with 125 members who produce 30,000. t fruit and vegetables per year, in particular apples, raspberries, strawberries, cherries, currants, coloured currants, aronia, cabbage, Beijing cabbage. This group is threatened by bankruptcy due to adverse administrative decisions refusing to grant it more than PLN 4 million. Without these subsidies and with already strained reputation, this group is unable to continue to function. For this reason, I ask the Minister to clarify this situation and to provide information that gives hope for the continuation of this group, which has many years of experience, guarantees high quality of goods, has the necessary certificates, has large facilities equipped with modern sorting and packaging lines, refrigeration chambers and employs more than 100 people in the agricultural area. Please respond in writing. Attached data about these groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u147	Thank you very much. It seems that you are no longer registered as Members. Mr. Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice? There isn't. Mr. Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice? There isn't. Mr. Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice? There isn't. Mr. Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice? There isn't. [[That kind of interest?]] [[We have a Commission, Madame.]] Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Thank you for this information, for your reply. I really listened with great surprise to the questions of Members of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. I see such great hypocrisy in these questions, because these problems were even bigger, and the Civic Platform and PSL have never reported such information. We're talking about problems. We know there are problems, and we want to talk about these problems. We take farmers very seriously, and we take these farmers' problems very seriously, which our predecessors did not do. I've been hit by one situation here. At the moment when she asked for an inspection, for control, a sudden laughter of one of the Members came from the benches of the Civic Platform. I think Mrs Niedziela knows well. There was no Member at the moment. I don't want to say a name. Anyway, Mr Dunin. The Member knows how difficult it was to combine inspections, because you have been working on it, how difficult it is. [[And I'm helping.]] And I think you would not do that and would not treat our fellow Member, as Mr Dunin did. It's a difficult topic and we're talking about it. This is a difficult subject. We're on it, we're on it. Our bill is already in the Sejm, we are discussing. I hope we will do this together, because if we do not do this together for Polish farmers... [[I want to help.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then let's not mock it, 'cause it's definitely not that way. [[It's not funny.]] [[You don't have to tell me because I'm on it.]] It is very important that we have a place to sell our products. So far, there's been a coalition that's been sticking to one market, the eastern market. We know what came out of it. There was an embargo, and we had nowhere to sell. Minister Jurgel has launched 30 new markets over the 2 years for 2.5 years. It's very important that we have a place to sell our products. Minister! Thank you so much for bringing up the bacteriosis, the disease, because no one's taken care of it since 2004. The Minister has just taken care of this case. Finally, there are farms that can be free if there is no disease there. We're trying to make sure there's bacteriosis-free areas. These are the neglects of many governments. This case must also be taken very seriously. We take this seriously. There's one thing that surprised me again. Member of the Men - do not cling to family farms. And what are we supposed to hold on to, sir, if not to family farms? Our Polish agriculture is characterized by the fact that there are family farms. You may not like this, the Civic Platform, but we will cling, as Mr Man said, to family farms, because this is the basis of our agriculture. [[What are you talking about? You didn't understand.]] You may not like it. Mr Man, you may not like this, but we will cling to family farms because we believe that this is the future of Polish agriculture, but not only, but also European ones. Mrs Kaminska. Bacteriosis again, why aren't we doing anything? Ladies and gentlemen, you have done nothing about this. Minister Jurgel has moved on. He's moving on. I hope it's done. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] And again I hear Mr Dunin's laughter, which is very disrespectful about this subject and says that seasonal contracts make no one to work. No, sir. If you knew anything about it, you'd know it's because of it... [[I know more than you know horses.]] ...that fewer and fewer people want to work on the farm. Seasonal contracts are new. So far it hasn't been. The farmer employed Ukrainians in black, but also Poles because he could not hire. We've settled this case, and you're trying to make fun of it in some way. It just shows... [[I understand you have to turn the cat's tail.]] ...how you treat farmers' problems. Once again, we take farmers' affairs and agricultural problems very seriously. That is why this information was reported today. [[You can see it in meetings right now.]] We want to talk about these problems. We want to work together at the table at the Round Table of the Social Dialogue Council to solve this so that we can find solutions together. Minister! Thank you for these actions, because many actions have been taken on inspections, inspections and penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are trying to mock us here too. And what did you do about the punishment? 500 zł punishment for the concern? You haven't done anything about it in eight years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister has just issued a decree that those who import questionable quality products into Poland will be punished. Those who poison the Polish consumer will be tested, they will pay salty penalties for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And what are your actions, not ours?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u149	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the comments and conclusions that have been made here, although some are very hurtful, but in politics you have to get used to it. As for Mrs Niedziela's speech, you remember because you were the head of the sub-committee on mergers... [[With you, sir.]] You haven't been able to trade retail for four years, and we've been trading for a year. Plant processing, plant production, which may be carried out on the holding, may be for sale. [[You've only improved my designs.]] You couldn't do it. Now you're complaining. You filed a bill in the Sejm and withdrew after a year. [[I didn't back off, she was lying down. He's a year old, too.]] I'm sure we've introduced retail. This bill will be adopted in the near future. It follows that it still requires consultation. The marshal consults all this, that's the law. So that the Member should have the least to say. It should also be said that you have introduced the principle that the county and voivodships of veterinarians are subject to the voivodship and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. I'm not used to going into someone's backyard and telling them who's making money if it's not my job. [[But your project is the same.]] Please don't disturb me. When I'm done, you can perform here. Once again, I inform you: we oversee this substantively, while the matter of the organisation of remuneration falls within the competence of another minister. I have no intention of speaking in this regard. If there is a question for me, I answer: we presented such information at the committee's deliberations for which we are responsible. As far as control is concerned, I was going to say that we've set up a team from the KAS, and there's the police, the Road Transport Inspection. They're being ordered to check. We receive information from interested parties where repacking takes place. That's where the police and other authorities are sent to carry out checks. That's the information we're collecting. Every week reports are drawn up from all checks so that the process is carried out. But the law is a little defective, as Mr Telus said, only that you made it, ladies and gentlemen. You can't change everything in two years. This is a need, and we are introducing these provisions. Firstly, it will be addressed to the Sejm by a law which amends several laws in order to increase the effectiveness of the control activities carried out. There will be very high penalties, up to 10% income, as is the case with counterfeit or counterfeit products. That's the bill. The next issue is the regulation on the commercial quality requirements for potatoes. In this case, we also change the penalties. With regard to the regulation on labelling of particular types of foodstuffs, we have here this objective, which farmers have called for: to provide consumers with information about the country of origin of potatoes offered in retail trade. It is proposed that information on the country of origin of potatoes should be given at the place of sale in the case of potatoes sold by weight and in the case of potatoes in packages if the packaging does not contain this information on the label or is otherwise made available directly to consumers. This is a draft regulation on the labelling of potato tubers other than seed potatoes. This will be regulated, honourable Member and Members, so that another area will be organised. On the other hand, I am surprised at the behaviour of PSL. This is a party that still has some reservations about me. Our main problem with the fruit and vegetables market is the issue of producer groups. During your previous term of office, the state spent PLN 8 billion on the organization of producer groups or storage. This is simply the development: first there is production itself, then storage and trade. It all needs to be organized slowly. But what were the cases under the supervision of PSL? In 2011 in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, the Marshal's Office and ARiMR received the investment for 79 million. An investment that wasn't there at all. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The case is in the D.A.'s office, and in the background of the arrest, an attempt to pay 8 million bribes, fire the Arimr employees. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Aren't you ashamed?]] 3 billion zlotys we counted... Ladies and gentlemen! What was our problem? [[Someone who did this has been punished. Was he punished?]] The European Commission has recommended that inspections be carried out. The financial penalties that have been imposed as a result of your activities already amount to PLN 1.2 billion. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what you allowed. Therefore, once again, I stress that the Polish People's Party should be here the least... [[The next heads will fly from the PSL.]] I've got all the research here, but I'm just going to mention the least inquisitive examples. In many cases, the Treasury had six times the market value of the investment. The market value of the investment times three times the excess plus sanctions - not from the market value - is six times that of the investment. Such funds were paid by members of the group and all this needs to be settled now. We've checked almost 80 groups, and in most cases we just have to figure out how these measures were, so to speak, embezzled. Almost 70 cases are in the D.A.'s office. [[Tragic.]] Arrange these cases, ladies and gentlemen, this is our job. That is why I say once again: if PSL has at least a little honor, it should not take part in the organization of the fruit and vegetables market, the fruit and vegetables, the fruiters. Especially the chief of judges, who has managed and managed all of this, and is still trying to insult the minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Following the Russian embargo, a market withdrawal mechanism is in place which will be completed by the end of June. It's about 77,000. t apples. This mechanism keeps the price up. We also carry out the school's fruit and vegetables program. One of the ladies said our farmers are cut off from the market. If they're cut off from the market, why is export growing every year? We already have almost 28 billion for 2017, and it was, I will remind you, 4.5 in 2004. So that this kind of statement just doesn't make sense. As far as beekeeping is concerned, because here one Member misleads the public - after all, there is a programme, we are implementing a 2-year programme of support for beekeeping. We have good relations with the beekeeper's association, and beekeepers support the government's policy on the use of plant protection products in particular. There's no problem here. These problems that have arisen this year in the fruit and vegetables market, especially potatoes, will be regulated. Thank you, even to those who, for the record, have paid attention to this in a way that maybe... I wouldn't want to. I acknowledge that, respectfully, everyone uses the methods they think are appropriate, we have democracy. There are no problems in the government. 'Cause here's Mrs. Sponge... There are no problems in the government, there is favor, the whole government is responsible for the Polish village. This is enshrined in a responsible development strategy and is a policy of improving quality of life, administration is becoming more efficient, production is cost-effective, the first pillar. We have taken a lot of these actions, but there is no time to talk about it today. So that I encourage you to use the website of Law and Justice, the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, because it's all described there. When I go to the Platform or the Polish People's Party, there's almost nothing about agriculture and we don't know... [[But why go in there?]] ...what you have and what you want to do, other than come and criticize. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But thank you again for all your comments. They simply strengthen for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u151	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Dorota Sunday in corrigendum mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u152	Minister, in correction mode. First of all, I filed a bill and I didn't withdraw it. Secondly, we're at exactly the same point with you because it's been a year, as you've submitted, and nothing happened, I... after a year, my term of office is over. So for now, we're at the same point. The difference between us is that I, as a Member - and a few experts - wrote this law myself, and you had an entire apparatus of experts to do so, you created a team of people, everyone wrote it, wrote it, and today a government representative, now the Prime Minister's representative, as I was pointed out - no longer the government, no longer the Prime Minister - said that it was bad and that it was actually necessary to improve it, and in fact it was not suitable for anything, and in principle it needs to stop in order not to do too fast movements. The consequence will not be. I don't know if he set it up with you, but that's what he said today that he wouldn't be. But after an hour, he said he would be, only she would be different. That's what you're gonna do with him. Then he said he wasn't there for it, and he's not competent. The Minister's answer tells us perfectly how you feel about inspections at all. You want to fight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ASF, Minister, if you don't know how much workers make? I'll tell you because I found out today. You want to fight potato bacteriosis? They don't have money for payouts, they don't have anything to do with research. Do you know that, or don't you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u153	Thank you very much, Member. This statement concludes the examination of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problems of farmers - fruit and vegetable producers - appear to be largely due to insufficient organisation of farmers in producer groups. In this respect, we are very far from Western European farmers. Hence my question: Does the Ministry in the programme of its activities provide for any information and training activities encouraging and facilitating farmers to organise themselves in producer groups? However, I would like to point out that I am talking about facilitating the organisation of farmers in general and not just strictly selected. I refer here to today's press release on prosecutorial proceedings concerning producer groups in the fruit and vegetables industry. On this occasion, an additional question: How were EU funds used to support farmers in this field?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u155	Minister! The situation in agriculture with regard to the equilibrium of the fruit and vegetables market has been somewhat turbulent. It's a normal situation to some extent. However, more and more frequent free deliveries of fruit to schools, offices, e.g. apples, to some extent, destabilize her. Isn't there a ministry intervention needed in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u156	Minister! Law and Justice has been promising for two years a single inspection to be carried out to control food in the fields, on the border, in processing plants, in shops. To this end, on 13 April 2017, the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło appointed the Government's representative for the organisation of public administration structures competent in the field of food safety in the rank of Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr Pinkas was appointed by Minister Krzysztof Jurgel himself. In total, for 11 months of doing nothing Mr. Pinkas earned 150,000 PLN and a prize of almost 40,000 PLN. Today, as part of the weight loss of government structures, Jarosław Pinkas was again appointed as government representative for the organisation of public administration structures competent in the field of food safety, but already by Prime Minister Morawiecki. He's doing the same thing, which is nothing, because the effects of the 11-month proxy job don't even know Minister Jurgiel. Plenipotentiary Pinkas is the embodiment of the domestic change in agriculture. Instead of border controls, controllers harass farmers. These start going out into the streets and blocking roads, and consumers need to get used to cereals, raspberries and blueberries coming from uncontrolled imports from Ukraine. We will also be waiting in Polish shops Czech and Chinese carp, as well as German and Danish pork. Minister! What is the government going to do about uncontrolled food imports, including fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u157	We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws (Print No 2557). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project involves changing the inefficient parametric system, which does not allow the effective prosecution of the perpetrators of minor offences against property, by introducing a rigid threshold of overfishing between the offence and the crime of acts against property for the amount of PLN 400. The current legal situation, I must say, probably a bit outrageous to the perpetrators of these offences, and this is nothing more than an incentive for the thief to commit such acts. The more a society gets rich, the more a thief can steal, risking only committing a crime. From an axiological point of view, it's very bad. Every year, the extent of social harm and the legal nature of the act change. This forces the courts, at the same time, to requalify these acts in the following year for a misdemeanor. So something that at the time of the theft was a crime - the perpetrator knew that he was committing a crime, the victim felt it as a crime - in the following year it becomes a crime. There's nothing more demoralizing. Finally, paradoxical situations occur when the perpetrator himself, e.g. delaying such conduct, it can effectively carry out its conduct, unethical conduct which postpones the process, lead to the result that it will be punished more gently - not for the offence at risk of imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years, but only for the offence. Here's another example. Two unsubs commit shoplifting on the same day. In the case of one of them, the case shall be opened in the year in which the act takes place and in the year following the other. It's completely different. The first one is a criminal, the second one only commits a misdemeanor. So that there are a lot of practical problems connected with the activity of justice, with the activity of courts, is the need to re-qualify these acts, and finally, as I said at the outset, it is simply immoral that the perpetrator who commits the crime in one year, in the next year for the same act, be judged as a misdemeanor. Please pay attention to the data of only one of the commercial networks. In July 2014, when the stealing threshold of PLN 420 was in force, there were 21 such events. At that time, goods were stolen for about 7 thousand. zł. A year later, when the threshold rose to PLN 437, the sum of losses and the number of thefts doubled. In July 2016, when the catch limit reached more than 462 PLN, there were 66 thefts for a total of 22 thousand. zł. We see, therefore, that the rolling value of this threshold results in a rolling increase in both theft and its values. The unsubs are calculating it. What's more, we know from the police's information that the perpetrators are spending a special fund on the organisation of mandates to pay the fines issued for such thefts. The police reveal a huge number of these kinds of thefts. They are a nightmare. I'm sure you see, you're in contact with the small shop owners, the people who run the family stores. They must involve property protection services, they must organise special third parties and the perpetrators are impunity. One day they steal in one shop, the other day - the other day, the day after - in another city. They're completely invisible to the justice system. That's why we're making a record of these types of offences. This is the second very important change. We introduce a fixed threshold of a half-life of 400 PLN, and the second very important change - we introduce a register of such offences and the police will already see, have statistics and subsequent offences committed will be shown in this register, and when the sum of these offences comes closer to a criminal act, then the perpetrator will be judged as a criminal. The third very important change is that theft in this case will be treated as a crime. In the event of the accumulation of two or more acts committed at short intervals, in the exercise of the pre-emptive intention of an exhaustive mark of the same offence, they will constitute a criminal offence in view of the total value of the property. These are three very important changes: the constant threshold of theft, the fixed threshold of the catch-up, first, in the place of the present crooked, which is, as I said, 1/4 of the average salary, second, the record of the offenses, thirdly, the creation of a crime where the sum of these values of the stolen property will already enter the area of crime. Further amendments are to extend the catalogue of criminal sanctions for criminal offences for restricting freedom in order to make the decision more flexible and more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, this is of great importance when it comes to reducing cognition. In the present situation, when the perpetrator declares at the time of judgment or the court sees that the perpetrator is unable to pay the amount of the fine he is ordered, the court is not in a position to prosecute immediately in the form of a restriction of freedom through socially useful works. We must wait for the implementation of the enforcement procedure and only then do the same thing twice: first we decide, knowing that the fine in question will not be enforced and then we wait for the enforcement procedure and replace the fine on the basis of Article. 25 Code of Offences for Socially Useful Work. We're done with this unnecessary job, and we're back to judgment. The court will be able to flexibly see the property situation of the perpetrator, seeing his behaviour and attitude, immediately at the time of ruling the punishment of socially useful works. Other amendments also seek to relieve the court of unnecessary penalties in the case of offences. We are also introducing a legal regulation allowing the perpetrator to be free from the penalty of the restriction of freedom by returning to the fine. In the event of a fine being fined and then the fine cannot be enforced, the perpetrator does not pay it, there is a change in that fine either for detention or for socially useful work. As for the arrest, the perpetrator may return to the fine, he may be released from this arrest when he sees the ailment of this penalty when he sees the need to return to the fine, declare payment of the fine, he may return to it. However, when he is doing socially useful work, there is no such return. We are introducing an appropriate solution that will allow the unsub who works socially usefully to redeem himself and pay the fine that was originally convicted of him, but who did not pay it or declare that he would not pay it. Further amendments allow the police to apply coercive measures as part of their investigation of a suspected person. These are very important changes to equip the police with real means of intervention in such situations. Finally, the changes we are making are designed to improve the mandate procedure. First of all, we introduce deadlines, we harmonise in the article. 97 § 1 of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters Time limits for the imposition of fines in the form of a criminal mandate and we standardise the start of that period from the time when the perpetrator of the offence was established. We clarify the elements to be included in the mandate: qualification, date, place of action. We are introducing the service of the perpetrator of the by-passing mandate next to the current form, i.e. leaving him in such a place that the perpetrator can pick him up immediately. It will be possible to effectively release the fine imposed in the form of a mandate by paying such a mandate at the police station, without the need to refer the case to court proceedings without further investigation. If a police officer sees that the perpetrator of the offence wishes to pay such a fine in the form of a mandate at the police station, it will be possible to close the case by now. This also serves to reduce the cognition, to free the courts from such cases, and I will remind you that there are about 0.5 million cases in courts. We extend from 7 to 14 days the time limit for payment by the perpetrator of the fine imposed by means of an eyewitness mandate and clarify that the penalty mandate should indicate the authority for which the fine may be paid within that time limit. We design that the law will enter into force within 14 days of the date of publication, except for the provisions concerning the register I mentioned. These shall enter into force 12 months after the date of the announcement. The solutions presented ensure effective prosecution and prosecution of perpetrators of property offences and improve criminal proceedings and, finally, standardise and systematic terminology and introduce legal solutions that are necessary to make it fairer and more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws, print No 2557. They have amended the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws, including the Code of Offences, which, in part, concerns Article 27 September 2013. 2 entered into force on 9 November 2013, a change in the value of the limit of damage determining the classification of the theft as a criminal offence was introduced. The legislator referred this to an amount of 1/4 of the minimum salary for work, established on the basis of the Act of 10 October 2002 on minimum salary for work, in place of a pre-defined amount, as we remember, 250 PLN. The specific amount of the minimum remuneration is not a fixed value, it is changing periodically and it therefore appears that the return to this quota indication is the right solution. The proposal also provides for legal provisions allowing the perpetrator to be free from the second type of substitute penalty carried out in the form of work useful by paying the amount of money still to be paid. Further changes in this project also deserve support. We are referring to the introduction of an electronic set of data defined as a record of offences, and it should be clarified here that it is only a matter of offences against property, that is, art. 119 § 1 of the Code of Offences, theft, or Art. 120 § 1, the theft and carving of trees, that is, art. 120 § 1 and 2, deliberately and unintentionally plundering, where the object will be property up to 400 PLN, and intentional damage to property up to 400 PLN, i.e. art. Article 124 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. The amendments to the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters concern the improvement of the procedure and the visibility of the role of the mandate procedure as the most frequently used procedure. Here, I would like to state the number of applications for misdemeanor cases which are settled by the courts. It follows from the justification that in 2015 it was 576 thousand. conclusions. The new provision sets a time limit within which a fine may be imposed by way of a mandate. The amendment also includes the provision of Article. 10 § 1, the addition of 1a is a definition of continuous misconduct: If two or more acts committed at short intervals in the performance of a preconceived intention are exhausted by the marks of the same offence and, due to the total value of the property, the marks of the offence are exhausted when applying the credit in accordance with Article. 10 § 1 of the Code of Offences, the sum of the penalties imposed on them shall be deemed to be a criminal offence. The amendments to this Act also concern the offences listed in the Act of 20 April 2004 on the promotion of employment and market institutions, typifying in a new way the offences under Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of this law: Unemployed who has taken up employment, other employment or economic activity without notification to the relevant district labour office shall be fined. Let me remind you that earlier the lower limit of the fine was set here at the level of 500 PLN. Further amendment: The foreigner who is illegally doing his job is fined. This gives the possibility to be punished directly in the procedure of the term of office. The following are also covered by the mandate procedure: not reporting the required data or reporting false data affecting the level of contributions to the Labour Fund or providing false explanations or refusing to grant them. It should be pointed out here that the record of offences was foreseen in 2018 and 2027. [[♪ The bell ♪]] maximum expenditure of PLN 28 million. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I declare that we are in favour of this project, and I request that it be continued in the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u161	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u162	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position towards the draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws. The revision covers several areas. Firstly, the project provides for the replacement of a parametric system, i.e. a fractional system, a quota system with regard to the limit value of damage which determines the classification of theft, the misappropriation of someone else's movable property, the destruction of property and the payment of property as a crime or offence. Therefore, you are proposing a return to solutions before 2013. We believe that the current solutions should nevertheless be preserved. Today, the limit between criminal theft and criminal theft is 1/4 of the minimum wage. You want to return to the rigid amount, which is to be 400 PLN according to the project. A question should be asked which system is better. In our opinion, the one in force today. Why? The rigid amount causes, due to the rise in prices, more and more trivial actions. The rigid amount causes that, over the course of the years, this threshold is really reduced and the effect is that there is a self-punishment of previously non-criminal behaviour. We are therefore dealing with an uncontrolled change in the real value of the threshold. The system that is in force today allows it to be kept relatively stable in relation to the degree of criminality of an offence or offence. Hence, we will not support this change. Some of our doubts are also raised by the record of offences, which in fact requires clarification. We pay particular attention to the fact that the range of data to be collected and processed is very wide. As for the other proposals on whether to introduce a regulation allowing the perpetrator to be free from the second type of substitute penalty carried out in the form of socially useful work, whether to make the sanctions threatening certain offences more flexible or stricter, we believe that these changes are going in the right direction and that specific comments or doubts will be made in committee work. We are therefore in favour of directing the project to further work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u163	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome the participants of the district contest of knowledge about the cursed soldiers organized in Pisz and the diocesan song and patriotic poetry competition organized in Ełek. Welcome. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of Kukiz.15, I present a position regarding print No.2557, i.e. a draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws. Minister! In general, it could be said that the changes that have been presented are going in the right direction. You can discuss whether this is going to be 400 PLN or 500 PLN or less. The KRS claims that the larger fuel trading organisation claims, given the situation at the petrol stations, that this amount should be less. But the question of fixing the amount is, in my opinion, the smallest problem. I have another question. How is it going - because in the project you are giving this country - recording by citizens of offences to GDPR? In this respect, I think there should be an opinion on the GDPR, because the bill was written earlier and now this situation may slip away and there may be a contradiction here. Second thing, Minister. I'm reading the justification for this revision of the Code of Offences, and it says it's supposed to shorten and speed things up, relieve the courts. Well, I say that this is false information or, if we consider it to be very insignificant. It's been three years now, we're talking about peace judges so those judges can take over all these little things. For a good cause until we do, we can make all these changes, but they're not actually gonna solve the problem, maybe they're gonna change it by 1%, 2%. , or maybe 0.5%. And that's the most important thing. It's about art. 51, which is not the subject of your solutions and is increasingly used unfortunately by the police. It's about violations of public order and peace. Well, what does it look like in practice? In practice, it looks like the neighbor is calling the police or the city police and saying it's too loud because either the dog is barking or something's going on. The police are coming, and they say you're paying a ticket or we're taking the case to court. Of course, a policeman makes false protocols very often, and then these cases for two years - I participate in such a case as a witness almost - they recognize and do not know what to do, but by nature they want to admit the truth to the police. So this is pure fiction. We need to adopt a complaint system. It cannot be that law enforcement authorities - especially the police, who are very important in this matter, in the procedure of the mandate - will create fiction and intimidate people. Just like the city guard does. If we were all here in this room to ask how many of us were dealing with these situations, I suspect it would turn out that everyone had already had at least once, twice and how many millions of citizens. So these changes are going in the right direction, okay. They're a change to me after all. We have to deal with this, work the criminal code, the evidence system, because, at the same time, a police officer is a witness to the prosecution and evidence in the case, and the other party has nothing to defend itself. These are unacceptable things, and this is what we are dealing with more and more often. These are mass matters, e.g. The thing is, there's a dog barking somewhere. I can understand it in the block, but for example. In the gardens? It's like there's some kind of lathe that's bothering somebody out there. Or a milling machine or somebody else. Often these are things resulting from pure neighborhood envy, conflict, etc. The police are coming, they're starting a case, because the guy who called it in is always right. Then the courts get tired of it. And that's starting to be a problem, Minister. So first of all, let's start with the judges of peace. Let's get this over with and lighten up the courts. And the Code of Misdemeanors requires work from start to finish, not in a selective way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u165	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I submit my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws. In general, this project focuses on such a few basic issues. The first is the changes to the so-called regulation. half-deeds. Further issues concern the creation of a police record of offences, changes in the mandate procedure, tightening the rules on the holding of dangerous animals. In the current state of law, half-off actions constitute a misdemeanor if the value of things does not exceed 1/4 of the minimum wage, i.e. at present it is the amount of PLN 525. As the doctrine and case law show, the value of the property subject to the act should be assessed in relation to the time of the act and the time of judgment and not in relation to the time of judgment under Article. 4 § 2nd Penal Code. The way of regulating the half-deeds has long been discussed in doctrine. Depending on whether an act constitutes a criminal offence or an offence, the value of the subject matter of the enforcement action, while at the same time changing the threshold of that liability, depending on the amount of the minimum remuneration per year, was intended to achieve those values. This regulation, regardless of the level of the minimum remuneration, was therefore intended to fulfil a value-making role. The proposed change implies a return to the rigid limit of responsibility of PLN 400. This is the amount that was in 2013. It should also be noted that the amendment will qualify acts which under the current rules would be considered to be offences, which could create very important judicial problems. The project also provides for the introduction of additional powers for the Police in the form of the creation of a central record of offences, in fact a database of offenders, as well as suspected offenders and victims, without the knowledge and consent of both. Moreover, these data will also be processed and used preventively by other services. The scope of the data collected is also very wide and beyond the basic data for perpetrators and suspects includes, among others. information about the family, material and personal situation. Moreover, restrictions on the use of the register, the protection of the data contained therein, the manner and limits of their processing will only be determined by a regulation, i.e. an implementing act to the law. In our view, this type of legislation should be included in the bill. And here Mr Kukiz (15 mentioned GDPR. The question is, how does this register fit into these regulations? In addition, it is important to stress the adequacy of the collection and collection of these data to the situation of suspects, in relation to information on the family, material and personal situation. We talk all the time about the perpetrators, not the criminals, but the misdemeanors. The draft also includes changes to reduce the time limit for the imposition of mandates in the mandate procedure to 60 days. Until now, these deadlines were different - 14, 90, 180 days respectively - depending on how the perpetrator was exposed. However, it should be noted that when the perpetrator of the offence was caught in the act of act or immediately after the offence was committed, that date was 14 days. The extension of up to 60 days in this respect should be assessed strongly negatively. The rules on the holding of dangerous animals are tightened, which, in the light of reports of how many situations we have in this regard, cases of improper handling of dangerous animals, should be considered as a positive change. On the other hand, there are less restrictive provisions on employment offences, including illegal work by foreigners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is a waiver of the minimum fine. I'm almost done. This seems to be a response to labour market demand, including seasonal work. However, it should be pointed out that solutions should be more systematic in this respect. Thank you. The Modern Posel Club requests that the bill be submitted to the committees for further work. [[Applause]] [[Very substantive speech. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u167	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present a position on the government draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and some other laws contained in the Seym Print No 2557. I will say that I have listened carefully, Minister, to the justification of this project, which has been quite comprehensively presented by you, and I have, I must say, mixed feelings. Undoubtedly, it is positive that you have leaned down in the Ministry of Justice over a rather significant problem, as the previous speakers have shown here, which affects petrol stations, which are particularly affected by small, often residential shops, which cannot invest so much in the security system, in monitoring. This is certainly a good step. The question is, how are we gonna get there? A few years ago, the previous government decided to apply a mechanism that considered an offence punishable by the Penal Code where the value of the object was defined as 1/4 of the minimum wage. I agree with the view that it was quite a large amount and certainly encouraged in many cases such petty thefts. I am just afraid that the way you want to change this is also a very imperfect way, because assuming, at least, that we will have inflation in the country, that probably this purchase value of money will be different, it may turn out that this 400 PLN in a moment will really be very, very little. And I'm afraid that -- I don't want to underestimate or ironize anymore -- stealing a few chocolates or some candy in the store will sometimes result in liability under the Penal Code. Isn't it better, Minister - I don't know, we'll think about whether we might be proposing an amendment here - for example. leave this model and modify it e.g. by determining 1/5 of the minimum wage? But this mechanism will ensure that this value will always be really adjusted to the purchasing value of money at a given time. It's a reservation and a suggestion that came to mind when I was preparing my position. The positive thing that I would like to point out, which is, I think, a good answer to this problem outlined by the designers, is the ability to sum up the value of these thefts. This is undoubtedly a good solution, which will also have a certain preventive advantage, namely it will not be an easy opportunity to mess with the law. Because we've dealt with something like this. This is undoubtedly a good thing. There are doubts and here, Minister, perhaps regardless of the differences among the previous speakers in the approach to your proposal, we need to look again at the issue of the register. I'm not saying he's evil in himself. Undoubtedly, he would have allowed this, helping to select, separating such notorious cases of people who tend to steal such small things, from cases of people who have done so in different circumstances and situations at once. However, unfortunately, here already mentioned by the previous speakers, issues related to GDPR make us look at this, I think, again, make us reconsider whether there is a very far-reaching catalogue of these elements, which will consist of a register. Nevertheless, in conclusion, I think that as a club we are in favour of the project going to further work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that it can, perhaps, be worked out together and without too much emotion, so that it is fully satisfying for all those sitting in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u169	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If so, please come and I'll close the list. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, I would like to be the first to ask you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of this amendment to the Code of Offences, there will be a need to establish a register of offences. There'll be data that the police haven't collected so far. In the course of the opinion, the General Data Protection Officer had his comments on this issue. For the new record of offences, servers, licenses, maintenance and execution of changes we will already allocate PLN 12 million in the first year. What about his staff? At a recent meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we discussed staff problems in uniform services, shortcomings in staffing, low wages for new officials and civil servants. From Living and from Cieszyna I have such an example that this is the second time that there is a full-time job announcement for the senior inspector for administration and operation of the ICT network. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's in the command structures. The police have a very important function. The wage offered does not exceed - attention - the minimum wage, so those willing to do so do not. I would like to ask if there will be any change in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u171	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! An important element of this amendment is also the regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which is attached to the project. In § 14 of this regulation states that the record of offences, namely the register in question, collects all data relating to all criminal investigations, regardless of the manner in which they are terminated, including the imposition of a criminal mandate or the application of educational measures to the perpetrator, i.e. instruction, warnings or attention. So, as I understand it, Minister, in this register, data will be collected, including property, personal and material, of people who at meetings ask inconvenient questions to PiS politicians, who are then registered by the police, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then they will be entered in the register kept by the same authority. In my opinion, § 14 of this Regulation, first of all, infringes the legislative delegation itself to identify the elements of the register in that Regulation and, secondly, also violates...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u173	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u174	... constitutional values for the protection of civil rights and freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u175	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the register, in principle, the scope of the information to be collected in the register. I must say that I am surprised to see that, according to point 8 of the draft law, information is to be collected in the register, among others. material, family and personal conditions. I'm the one asking, "Why? Why would you need that kind of information? After all, this goes beyond what is necessary to carry out those obligations which are set out in the Act. Why do you need this data? Maybe, I don't know, a shoe number or some other size? What do you need this data for? After all, according to the GDPR, data that goes beyond what is necessary to achieve specific objectives cannot be collected. That's also a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the protection of citizens' rights, the protection of human rights. A citizen, a man, has the right to protect this information, which is not necessary for you to carry out your duties. This proposal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u177	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u178	...absolutely exceeds all bounds of decency in this case. I'm asking you to explain, and the best way to get out of this is to get out of here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u179	Thank you very much, sir, and please watch your time. Thank you very much. Please answer the questions of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to say that I would suggest that you take some better legal experts here, because these two questions simply show that someone has not read our project. Firstly, Mr Mirosław Pampuch pointed out § 14 of the Regulation, which refers to the investigation of offences, but only to the property offences referred to in Article. 2 laws. The regulation must never go beyond the law. It's obvious. This is only about the perpetrators of offences against the property referred to in Article. 119 § 1, Art. 120 § 1, Article 122 § 1 and 2 and Article 2 124 § 1. And that's it. I do not understand how he concludes that this is about any other offence. The second question is also due to the ignorance of the project, because today, Mr Suchoni - I answer - information about the sources of subsistence, including the place of employment, and information about material, family and personal conditions is an essential and fundamental condition for the application for punishment. This data is already being collected today because it has to be collected. After all, the court must rule on the basis of the whole... [[An application, not a...]] ...knowing about the person to be punished. Why would a court want to know that? Just so he can choose the punishment appropriate to the act he committed. It's obvious. That's why this information should be here, because... [[Voice from the room: Suspect.]] ... The police are gonna be writing a lawsuit like this. Based on what should he write it? From the ceiling? Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u181	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, today is about passing this information to the court. And full agreement. But that's not the question. This question was why they would be included in the register, which will be available to all your special services. Well, in the next article, there's an authorization to access that data... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[How can you not?]] ...for all your special forces, whether they need it or not. You're building a police state, that's what this is all about. [[The Minister doesn't know the project.]] If you want this data to be available just as it is for the court at the moment, then there is full consent. The court must rule objectively, knowing the material situation. There's no doubt about it. On the other hand, the State wishes to place these data in the register and make all special services fully accessible to this, and this is already beyond what is needed to carry out these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u183	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Code of Offences Act and certain other laws, contained in print No.2557, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and some other laws (Print No. 2549). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill. I'm declaring a three-minute break. We're looking for the Minister. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 49 hours 13 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda. I would like to ask the Minister to present the 2549 Print Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u184	Now, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 2549. First, the purpose of the proposed law is to transpose into Polish law Directive 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified know-how and classified commercial information, business secrets, against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The current rules of national legal order in the Member States of the Union create an unequal level of protection of company secrecy. These differences may discourage entrepreneurs from taking up activities of an international nature, especially in an area requiring investment in innovation. The solutions provided for in the draft law will ensure the minimum standard for the protection of business secrets required by the provisions of Directive 2016/943. The project implementing this objective includes a proposal, inter alia. amendments to the Act of 16 April 1993 on combating unfair competition and the Act of 17 November 1964. Code of Civil Procedure. The proposed solutions include clarification of the definition of company secrecy, an example of unfair competition in breach of company secrecy and an indication of circumstances excluding liability in the event of breach of company secrecy. The proposed law also introduces new measures to protect the company's secrecy, which will be applied in civil proceedings in the event of a breach of that secret. These include the publication of a judgment or information on its content, the settlement of remuneration for the use of the company's secrecy in the future and the determination of compensation as the equivalent of the licence fee due for the exercise of the company's secrecy. This last solution refers to the regulation already existing in the Polish legal system in the Copyright Law and Related Rights Act and in the Industrial Property Law Act. These arrangements have been designed to ensure that the interests of the parties to the process are balanced and to provide the court with a flexible tool in the case of breach of business secrecy. The Act will also regulate the question of the protection of the company's secrecy in connection with legal proceedings relating to its infringement. If a participant in a trial concerning a breach of the secret of an undertaking, excluding disclosure, discloses or uses such confidential information as he has received during that process, such action shall be subject to criminal liability. This applies to all participants in the trial, not only to the parties, but also to representatives, experts or judges. I hope that the solutions proposed will ensure a high level of protection of business secrecy in the common market, which should, on the one hand, discourage unfair competition and, on the other hand, create a transparent and stable legal framework for the use of know-how. The proposed standard for the protection of business secrecy will make the market more competitive. I ask the High House to proceed smoothly on the project, bearing in mind that it is fulfilling the obligations arising from Poland's membership of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on Draft Print Act No. 2549 amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The purpose of the proposed law is to transpose into Polish law Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016. Directive 2016/943 of the European Union is a summary of nearly five years of work by European Union bodies to harmonise rules on standards for the protection of confidential information of an undertaking, i.e. classified know-how and classified commercial information, against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. This Directive provides for a minimum harmonisation model, with a number of exceptions contained in several articles of the Directive, with a view to fully harmonising legislation on this issue between the Member States of the European Union, inter alia. as regards the definition of lawful acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets, circumstances in which the trader does not obtain legal protection despite the acquisition, disclosure or use of information which is a secret of his business, or the limitation period for claims for unlawful activities relating to business secrecy. However, the minimum harmonisation model adopted by the European Union legislator in the implementation of the Directive means that the level of protection of information which is a secret of an undertaking in the laws of individual Member States must not be lower than that laid down in Directive 2016/943. Art. 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which constitutes the legal basis for this Directive, provides for the adoption of EU rules harmonising national rules, since the national rules currently in force in the Member States create an unequal level of protection of business secrets within the European Union, and it is necessary to ensure a properly functioning internal market throughout the Union. The current legal situation in Poland in the areas covered by Directive 2016/943 of the European Union deviates from the standard contained in the Directive, which forces the need for legislative intervention in several legislative acts. We refer to the following acts: the Act of 16 April 1993 on combating unfair competition, the Law of 17 November 1964. The Code of Civil Procedure and the Act of 16 February 2017 on the protection of competition and consumers. In order to transpose Directive 2016/943 of the European Union, the draft in print No 2549 has just been proposed to amend the abovementioned laws. According to Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive 2016/943 of the European Union should be transposed by the Member States by 9 June 2018, so that there is little time for the adoption of that law. The proposed law does not require notification to the European Commission under the Act of 30 April 2014 on State aid proceedings and is, of course, compatible with European Union law. Important information is that this regulation is beneficial for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. It ensures a high standard of protection of information relevant for the acquisition and maintenance of customers by small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as ensuring sound competition mechanisms. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of a draft law on printing [[♪ The bell ♪]] No 2549 and proposes to refer it to further work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u187	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Antoni Men, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on Combating Unfair Competition and some other laws. The project aims to implement European Union law. The proposal concerns the transposition into Polish law of Directive 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified know-how and business secrets from their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Directive has been established for 5 years and covers many areas of law, including: substantive law, civil procedural law, competition law and criminal law. The current state of law in Poland differs significantly from the standard set out in this directive, and it is therefore necessary to introduce new regulations in the law on combating unfair competition, in the Code of Civil Procedure and in the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. As required by the law, this directive should be implemented by 9 June this year, but the project only entered the Sejm on 11 May 2018, i.e. this year, and there is some concern whether the real implementation or transposition of this directive into Polish law will be carried out properly. Because in Poland we have a problem when it comes to the operation of the patent system - it works badly - there is a concern whether this implementation will not be e.g. too zealous, as has been the case with many existing transpositions of EU directives, which has hindered a rational and competitive economy. This is very important. Given that we have a short deadline and practically no consultation in the legislative process in the Sejm - there will be little time to think about it - but it is necessary to rely on the opinion of the Ministry. As regards the scope of the implementation of this directive, the Minister optimisticly stated that this would work well. There are always such concerns that too zealous implementation of directives sometimes hinders the functioning of the competitive market. Of course, personally, as regards our presence in the European Union, I believe that the most important effect of this presence is neither the security of the Polish state here nor all the money that we are getting from the European Union, which is very visible and even spectacular, but it is really economic law. Economic law is the basis for and precise implementation of EU directives, which makes our country the most profitable. Due to the huge entrepreneurship of Poles we become very competitive in the same legal conditions throughout the European Union's single market. I believe that if we implement European Union law thoroughly, the results will not have to wait long. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of adopting this bill so that Poland can continue to benefit from the benefits of Poland's presence in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u190	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In order to ensure that innovation, know-how and know-how are the most important in the company, there is no need to convince anyone. This directive aims to protect this intellectual property. It is only a pity that we have so little time to postpone this project, for a greater amount of reflection, maybe it would be worth adding more to it. Unfortunately, there probably won't be time. I hope that you will also agree with the Minister that the Committee on Economic Affairs should also take care of this project. This is a very important project. We as Modern will support him in further work. I hope that Polish companies will benefit from this and we will fight as effectively as possible in the markets of the European Union and at the same time protect our intellectual property. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u191	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, I will present my position on the Government's draft print law No. 2549. As has already been said, the aim of the project is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of classified know-how, classified commercial information against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Directive establishes a minimum standard for the protection of confidential business information in the management of both competitiveness and innovation. Thus, it harmonises the protection of business secrets throughout the European Union and allows, as a matter of fact, to secure a cross-border economic activity. The implementation of the Directive under our conditions concerns the amendment of three legal acts. Now I'm going to refer to them one by one. The first is an amendment to the Act on Combating Unfair Competition. These changes concern, among others, clarify the definition of the company itself and the definition of unfair competition. The definition of unfair competition has been extended to include the so-called "unfair competition'. other information which is a secret to the undertaking with regard to its disclosure, use and acquisition. In principle, the draft reflects the definition contained in the directive that we are implementing. Similarly, the definition of company secrecy is adapted to the definition contained in the Directive. And so on. The directive does not contain any time limits for this protection and will therefore be withdrawn from our legal system, which has so far been required by a company employee, for example. to keep the company secret for a period of 3 years from the date of termination of employment. In addition, the proposed changes increase the scope of claims for the entitled in the event of unfair competition, including inter alia. making public e.g. a judgment or a claim for compensation in the form of payment to the claimant of the appropriate remuneration. The amendments also eliminate the three-year limitation period for damages claims, extending it to up to 20 years in the case of unfair competition which is a crime or offence at the same time, as well as the extension of liability to persons who have taken information, e.g. in the course of legal proceedings. This will then apply to parties to proceedings, representatives, experts, translators, minutesmen, as well as persons who otherwise had access to files, e.g. for visits or administrative supervision, research or scientific work. The second law which is subject to amendment is the Code of Civil Procedure. In fact, here these changes are in the scope of security proceedings. Once the provisions of the Directive have been introduced, there will be an extension of the bail-in institutions. A circle of people entitled to pay bail in advance of other charges will be extended immediately after enforcement costs. Protection of third parties shall be introduced in the event that they suffer losses as a result of the provision. Similarly, in the case of the last Act on Competition and Consumer Protection: here these amendments are purely technical, relate to the same definition of company secrecy in both the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and the Act on Combating Unfair Competition. In conclusion, it should be considered that the changes are very precise and extensive in their content. As we can hear, they must be taken within a reasonable period of time. I believe that it is worth noting that the government has addressed this proposal for consultation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so he was consulted. There's been a lot of conclusions. I think they will still be subject to an in-depth analysis. So that my club is in favour of directing the project to further work in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u193	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and certain other laws. The draft law submitted is a transposition into the Polish legal order of the EU Parliament and Council Directive 2016/943 of 8 June 2016 on the protection of classified know-how and classified commercial information (the secrets of the enterprise) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The main objective of the Directive was to establish a minimum standard for the protection of confidential information by companies as a tool for managing competitiveness and innovation. In a globalised world, in the environment of dynamically developing technologies, the risk that people who have failed to obtain information that is a secret of the company has become serious as never before. It is therefore necessary to develop legal tools that will enable entrepreneurs to protect key information about their activities, in particular by unambiguously sanctioning as an act of unfair competition attempts to obtain, use or disclose such information. It is worth highlighting the long, more than 90-year history of legislation relating to the fight against unfair competition. It found its origin in the Act of 2 August 1926 on combating unfair competition, in which it was Article. 10 was about sanctioning the unlawful exploitation of the company's secret. Given that the subject matter of the directive is regulated, i.e. Whereas the concept of unlawful action in relation to business secrecy as an act of unfair competition has been the subject of the Act of 16 April 1993 on combating unfair competition for years, it is appropriate for the applicant to propose that the directive be implemented by amending that law rather than creating a completely new, separate one. The proposal also introduces to a lesser extent amendments to the Act of 17 November 1964. The Code of Civil Procedure and the Act of 16 February 2007 on Competition and Consumer Protection. To discuss the most important changes briefly, it should be pointed out that due to discrepancies it was necessary to adapt the Polish definition of company secrecy to the definition contained in the article. Point 2 (1) of the Directive. In accordance with the new definition set out in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on the fight against unfair competition: by the secret of an undertaking, technical, technological, organisational or other information of economic value is understood, which as a whole or in a specific combination and a set of their elements are not generally known to persons normally involved in this type of information or are not readily accessible to such persons, provided that they are entitled to use or dispose of the information they have taken, with due care, to ensure that they are kept confidential. In this context, it is very useful for entrepreneurs to add a solution that allows a judgment against the defendant, i.e. the perpetrator of unfair competition relating to the secret of the undertaking, ordering the publication of a judgment or information on the content indicated on an equal footing with other alternative: a request for payment of the appropriate remuneration, compensation or compensation of the damage caused. This solution was introduced by adding paragraph in the Act. Article 3 18: In the event of a judgment by the court of such an order, and subsequently of its default by the defendant on a voluntary basis, the execution will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law of K.p.c. on the enforcement of non-monetary benefits. In conclusion, the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2016/943 by amending the provisions of the Act on Combating Unfair Competition underlines the importance of protecting business secrets for the development of Polish companies and maintaining proper competition in the market. This change should be particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which good legal conditions ensuring the protection of key information that is a secret of the company are of particular importance for the acquisition and maintenance of customers with a view to further expansion. The implementation of the Directive should also have a positive impact on the development of competition mechanisms, which is under the supervision of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted to the committees for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The definition of company secrecy is, of course, the basis for this regulation, on which any dispute will be settled by court. You are changing this definition in the direction in which this Directive 2016/943 wishes to do so. We are talking here about the fact that the secret of the company will be information, provided that the right to use or dispose of this information has taken, with due care, action to keep it confidential. And here's the question: Is it enough to inform the employee of the confidential nature of the information in order to meet this condition? Is that enough? Because the very concept of maintaining due diligence is very vague. We are also talking about actions to keep them confidential without any adjective - we are talking about only with plural that it's some sort of action set, action [[♪ The bell ♪]] plural. The application of this definition seems to give rise to quite elementary problems in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u197	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm asking you the following question. The point is that the implementation into Polish law of Directive 2016/943 of the European Union provides that from the provisions of the law, from the content of the law on combating unfair competition with Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The provision providing for the limitation of the period of protection of secrecy to 3 years from the date of termination of employment shall be deleted. The implementation of this Directive requires the removal of this restriction from the national legal system. Therefore, what other safeguards will be adopted in this revised law to protect companies from the use of important commercial information by employees leaving for a competitive company? What do you mean? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the sanctions are foreseen in this draft amendment in relation to such harmful actions of outgoing workers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u199	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Luke Piebiak to answer questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer briefly the questions asked by your Members. With regard to the question of Mr Wilczyński from the Platform regarding the actions to be taken and the principles that certain measures must be taken in order to preserve the company's secrecy, of course how this will ultimately look will depend on how judicial case-law will be shaped. It seems that the project is drawn up as it should be, flexibly, because it has no reason to protect something that the entrepreneur does not consider to be a secret, which he considers absolutely revealing, does nothing to protect certain information. Since ancient times, however, there has been a general principle that no harm has been done to a willing person. If someone thinks he can disclose specific information, it is difficult for the legislator here to take action against the will of the directly interested person. Of course, the way of protecting this information will probably vary depending on what information it is, what kind of business it is, whether it is a big businessman or a small businessman. All these situations such a general formula of the provision seems to take into account. And as for the details, if there is court proceedings and a dispute over whether the trader has taken certain measures to keep certain information secret or not, then the court will have to... The circumstances of a particular case will be dealt with in court proceedings, the parties will speak out, the court will have to assess and deliver a judgment on the basis of such a general provision. But general clauses are not unusual, they are a normal thing in the legal system, and yet they play an important role in the legal system, because we cannot create law on a casuistic basis. We wouldn't be able to imagine all the situations that might exist anyway. So that's what court proceedings are for, and that's why there are parties who convince the court to give a fair ruling on the basis of rules that are, by nature, general. With regard to Mrs Malik's question, where does this 3-year limitation, which has been and which is now not going to be, in line with the draft, and how it will look in time to protect the interests of the trader, the interests in the form of keeping certain data as confidential - first of all, the Directive. The Directive does not in any way allow for the limitation of the period during which a person is obliged to comply with this secrecy, the non-disclosure of information, in this case the worker. So this 3-year limitation, which exists today, had to be removed, because otherwise we would have been immediately justified, as it seems at first glance, by the allegation that we are not implementing the directive as it should be. Besides, there is no particular reason to release a worker after 3 years from responsibility for an action that can cause powerful damage - powerful damage, sometimes leading to bankruptcy of a company, liquidation, dismissal of employees, etc., because knowledge, confidential information is often essential if not only capital, especially entrepreneurs operating in innovative markets, which are, say, quite unprecedented activities. This mystery often determines the existence of an entrepreneur and there is no rational reason to say: after 3 years it can be revealed. So this law protects the secrets of the company more than it is in the present state. As it seems, this is in no way disputed by the High House. This is the right direction, and this is in line with the directive that we have to implement since we are a member of the European Union. As regards measures aimed at extorting a specific action, these are financial sanctions or the publication of a judgment. This was specifically foreseen in the project. This is a consequence of the directive, because this is the starting point that we had to preserve. By the way, I would like to end by thanking all the representatives of the clubs for having responded positively to this project prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and apologizing for the fact that it is in June and the deadline for implementation is 9 June, but also explaining what this results from. This is due to what has been seen - for which I thank you - by the honourable Members and included in their statements: we wanted to consult as much as possible. We even analyzed the comments submitted after the deadline and tried to take them into account so that no one could say that we missed something, that we were in too much of a hurry. If we fail to implement the deadline, we will be a month or two late, then the tragedy will not be, but the project is to be good. As late as April, we had received comments from the river community, and already in May we presented a project to Parliament. The Patent Office of the Republic of Poland and the Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen submitted these comments quite late, but we considered that it was better to analyse them and present to the High House a decent project for which all clubs will be able to take a positive position rather than to present to the High House something that is not fully refined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u201	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the fight against unfair competition and certain other laws, contained in print No. 2549, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 22 June 2018. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017 (prints No 2284 and 2494). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the joint committees: the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017, print No 2284. The project is aimed at establishing the legal basis for Polish-Turkish cooperation in the area of insurance guarantees for Polish citizens residing or working in the territory of Turkey. The guarantee of insurance protection is already available to Polish citizens undertaking employment or moving within the territory of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, as well as to countries with which they connect the Republic of Poland with bilateral social security agreements. Polish citizens in Turkey, but also Turkish citizens in the territory of the Republic of Poland, will now be covered by such guarantees. Having regard to the above, I believe that the binding of the Republic of Poland to the social security agreement with Turkey should be considered to be intentional and justified. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Joint Committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family after first reading and considering this draft law at its joint meeting on 8 May 2018 unanimously adopted a report requesting the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law in print no 2284 without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u203	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This agreement, as we have just heard, just a moment ago from the rapporteur's mouth, is an agreement that will safeguard the interests of Poles living in Turkey. This is an important contract, because so far such social security has only been associated with insurance, and it is more than that. I would like to quote a provision concerning workers, self-employed workers, including farmers and households. These insurances will apply to each party, so in our opinion, in the assessment of the club Law and Justice, it is justified to process and adopt such a bill. The agreement does not directly concern legal persons, but these solutions may contribute to the fact that legal persons will also be covered by such safeguards in the future. The provisions of the Agreement, which is also important, will promote economic cooperation. This is also very important because you forget about this element, which is connected with the development of economic cooperation. They will also help Poles to move easier and safer, which is also important. That is why the Law and Justice Club is in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u205	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's one of those laws that will connect us, not divide us. Obviously, if we can regulate the situation of both Poles working in Turkey and Turkish citizens working in Poland, if we can do it better than the European Union itself proposes, because we are going further in our proposals, then, of course, the Civic Platform Club is in favour. There is a great deal of concern about the information that comes from Turkey. There is much concern today about the state of democracy in Turkey, but all the more so should we do everything possible to help the Turks in Poland and the Poles in Turkey as effectively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u207	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr. Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u208	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, Polish citizens moving within the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland, as well as countries with which Poland joins bilateral social security agreements, have a guarantee of insurance protection during their professional activity abroad. However, many Polish citizens who live or work outside our country, including those who live or work in Turkey, are still deprived of the guarantee. Therefore, the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017 must be supported. The introduction of this agreement will give mutual benefit to Polish citizens living in Turkey and Turkish residents living in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas made his statement in writing. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The right to social security is one of the fundamental human rights. The agreement between Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security aims to change the existing legal situation. This is the first agreement between our countries, which aims above all to safeguard the rights of our compatriots working in Turkey. The agreement is intended to bring real benefits: to eliminate both positive and negative conflicts of Polish and Turkish laws - double payment of insurance premiums for a given employment or total lack of insurance protection; to enable the right to benefits to be acquired by summing up periods of insurance in the territories of Turkey and Poland, and, if necessary, a third country with which both countries have signed appropriate social security agreements; to allow the transfer of benefits acquired under the legislation of Poland or Turkey in case of transfer of their place of residence to the territory of the other party of the agreement. The agreement corresponds to international standards in the field of social security. We think it will be a solution for our fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u211	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, drawn up at Munich on 18 February 2017 (prints No 2465 and 2578). I ask Mr Dominik Tarczyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, there was actually no major controversy about this document. We believe that this cooperation can be fruitful. It is important that Poland is present in different parts of the world, also in those directions. That's why there was no objection. The Commission recommends its adoption. I believe that if we discuss agreements in such a substantive way, on documents relating to foreign policy, this will be a good direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u213	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Ms Agata Borowiec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u214	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position of the club on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, drawn up in Munich on 18 February 2017. [[Applause]] The project deals with the first establishment of contractual relations between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, so that the principles and conditions of the future partnership can be further defined. It should be noted that the activity of the Republic of Poland in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has been decreasing in recent years. At the end of 2014 the embassy of the Republic of Poland in Kabul was closed, while political contacts are supported mainly by participation in international forums and periodic conferences. Therefore, the conclusion of the agreement will undoubtedly be an important way of strengthening cooperation and relations between the parties to the agreement. The agreement clarifies the framework for cooperation in many areas, providing tools to deepen and intensify political dialogue with Kabul. Close cooperation will increase the chances of success of numerous Afghan reforms, both economic and security issues, which is certainly in the interest of the Republic of Poland. It should be mentioned that the agreement covers a number of important issues, e.g. Civil society building or combating terrorism. Attention is also drawn to very broad sectoral cooperation, including: development of infrastructure, energy, transport, health, natural resources, taxes, education and culture. In conclusion, I would like to say that the implementation of the agreement can be a factor conducive to the reform and modernisation of the Afghan economy and, in the long term, contribute to the improvement of the investment climate, also contributing positively to the creation of the possibility of Polish business presence in the country. It is therefore appropriate to consider, in the light of the arguments put forward, that the adoption of this law is justified and beneficial. The effects of such cooperation will strengthen the foundations of the European Union's political, economic and social functioning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u215	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is the first very important step towards strengthening political relations between these two actors in international policy. Thanks to this document, the Union will gain as a whole and Poland will also gain as a member of the European Union. We will show this desire to maintain dialogue and active policy with Afghanistan, which we have been conducting for 90 years. This agreement covers a number of important issues that are of interest to both the European Union and Afghanistan. Among them are others. countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, building civil society or combating terrorism, the huge problem of our time. Sectoral cooperation will be undertaken in areas such as infrastructure development, transport, health, natural resources, taxation, education and culture, employment and social affairs. As the European Union, we will pay attention to the development of Afghan institutions, encourage mutual understanding through cooperation between think tanks, businesses and academic centres. Political cooperation based on, among others, will be important here. for programmes on the promotion and effective protection of human rights or joint efforts for peace and the fight against terrorism. However, it is not only in this form that we will develop our relationship. Much attention is paid to development, trade and investment issues in the text of the Agreement. The main objective here is to help Afghanistan achieve its development goals, such as poverty eradication. In these matters and in these points we can share the experience from both the European Union and Polish history. It is worth noting that a separate title has the rule of law and cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs in the agreement. This is a sign that the values on which the European Union is based can also be promoted in Afghanistan. The signing of the agreement will help to improve the current political and economic situation of Afghanistan, caused inter alia. conflict with the Taliban. The implementation of the agreement may promote reform and modernisation of the Afghan economy and, in the long term, contribute to improving the investment climate, which would increase the possibility of Polish business presence in these areas. We have a chance at this moment to deepen and strengthen Polish-Afganian relations, and thanks to this agreement we are opening another level of dialogue. Cooperation with Kabul increases the chances of economic and political reforms, which will also have an impact [[♪ The bell ♪]] on very important security issues, which is in the interests of the world as a whole, including the European Union. Therefore, as a Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u217	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długo is not here. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u218	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This agreement plays the role of a certificate summarizing the European Union's long-term and long-term commitment to the development of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. It will make it possible to define more precisely the principles and conditions on which the future partnership will be based. The Agreement constitutes the first establishment of contractual relations between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and forms the basis for the European Union's commitment to support Afghanistan's development. This agreement covers a number of important issues, both for Afghanistan and for the European Union. Let me give you a few examples: countering the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, building civil society or combating terrorism. It also draws attention to very broad sectoral cooperation, including: development of infrastructure, energy, transport, health, natural resources, taxes, education and culture, employment and social affairs, science and technology, environment and climate change. The aim of the Agreement is to establish a partnership between the European Union and Afghanistan to strengthen dialogue and cooperation. The Modern Posel Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will of course vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. It is regrettable that the diplomatic presence of Poland in Afghanistan has been suspended. We shut down the facility there. For reasons far more positive, the presence of our military contingent ends, however Afghanistan plays a global geopolitical role, and I do not hesitate to use that word, a very serious role. That is why it is very welcome to welcome the activity of the European Union, which is a very important international body for Poland of the Union, which we are a member of, in the stabilisation work of Afghanistan, which can lead, hopefully, to a rather distant perspective today, hopefully, to peace in this area in the future. This is important, also taking into account the particular interests of Poland, it is important for us, because potentially Afghanistan can be an important economic partner for us. I would like to point out that this agreement also deals with issues that are of great importance to us as a country that loves freedom, i.e. emphasises that democratic standards of the rule of law are respected in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. I would also like to draw attention to the very strong emphasis on women's rights. This is a very serious problem, especially in Afghanistan. There are cases of stoning for treason, there are cases of arranged marriages of young girls. Certainly here the pressure of the European Union is something that will improve the fate of Afghan women. We will therefore vote in favour of ratifying this agreement with all conviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u221	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of point 33 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 24 November 2017 (prints Nos 2466 and 2579). I ask Mr Dominik Tarczyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This was another sitting where, fortunately, there was no controversy or division. I'm glad this Armenian deal is a subject that doesn't arouse any negative emotions. I am pleased that the joint committees have decided without any objection, unanimously, to be rapporteur. It is simply an economic agreement that will help Poland or the Member States of the European Union to cooperate. It provides for development and real dialogue, not only economic and political, so the adoption of this project will be simply good for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u223	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Olszówka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The objectives set out in the Agreement allow for the definition of the principles and conditions on which future partnerships, economic development, trade and the strengthening of political dialogue between the European Union and the partner countries and Armenia will be based. The Agreement establishes a mechanism to strengthen cooperation and engagement in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, its delivery systems, dialogue and cooperation in the field of security and defence, as well as the fight against terrorism and the prevention of illicit arms production for peace and reconciliation. The Parties shall draw attention to compliance with the principles of the rule of law and the organisation of justice in order to combat organised, economic, financial, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. In addition, cooperation on migration, asylum and border management is being undertaken. The European Union and the Republic of Armenia work together to strengthen the level of the economy in terms of statistics and finance. The Act describes the principles of transport policy and infrastructure, cooperation on energy, environment and climate, industry, businesses, law, companies, banking services, information society, tourism, agriculture, rural development, fisheries, water management, mining, research, innovation, consumer protection, employment, health, education, culture and sport. The Parties are willing to address the subject of multilateral trade by bringing the Republic of Armenia's economic and trade rules closer to the rules in force in the European Union. Financial assistance to Armenia lays down rules on the use of loans to prevent fraud, corruption or illegal activities using funds from the Union budget. The Agreement establishes a Partnership Council with representatives from both sides, a Partnership Committee and a civil society platform, a forum for meetings and exchanges of opinions. The entry into force of the Agreement has political and economic implications, which should be considered positive from the point of view of Poland and Armenia. The strengthening of relations based on the discussion on visa liberalisation and international organisations is a satisfactory cooperation in many areas of deepening political dialogue. In the field of trade in Poland and Armenia dominate the supply of goods from Poland over purchases in Armenia, but the economy is constantly growing and imports in Armenia are growing. This means that Polish private and public enterprises are also increasingly interested in procurement for the public sector in the Republic of Armenia. Unfortunately, there are trade barriers in Armenia's relations with the European Union. The geographical isolation of the country across closed borders with Azerbaijan and Turkey and the resignation of Armenia from the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement by accession to the Eurasian Economic Union constitute a major obstacle. Therefore, signing an agreement between Armenia and the Union can have a positive impact on business, investment and trade. It should be stressed that the entry into force of the agreement will not result in direct financial burdens and will increase acceptance, tolerance and openness to human, ethnic and religious contacts from a social perspective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law and justice are supported by the aforementioned. the law and will vote in favour of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u225	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u226	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Armenia is the statistically most friendly place to do business in the Community of Independent States and ranks 47th in the World Bank's Doing Business ranking. Unfortunately, the last statements of the Prime Minister of Armenia elected on 8 May have mentioned the need for a close alliance with Russia, especially in terms of economic and security. This is a clear correction of his previous position as a pro-Western party, which has even submitted a draft law to abandon Russian integration structures such as the Eurasian Economic Union by Armenia. It is understandable that Armenia is heavily dependent on Russia, which has numerous political, military and economic instruments to influence the Armenian authorities. Therefore, it is absolutely right to strive for the European Union, including Poland, to strengthen and deepen cooperation and partnership with Armenia as defined by the agreement we are considering. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długo is not here. Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u228	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this agreement is to demonstrate the European Union's long-term commitment to cooperation with the Republic of Armenia in the framework of the Eastern Partnership. Given Armenia's membership of the Eurasian Economic Union at this stage, it is impossible to conclude an association agreement with Armenia that deepens trade cooperation between Armenia and the countries of the European Union, as originally intended. Through the conclusion of a comprehensive and strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States and the Republic of Armenia, it will be possible to define more precisely the principles and conditions on which the future partnership will be based. It can be assumed that ratification of this agreement will benefit cooperation in specific areas and contribute to the development of economic cooperation and strengthen political dialogue between Warsaw and Erania. This agreement gives the opportunity to confirm Poland's commitment to the development of the Eastern Partnership programme. The Agreement also aims to establish a mechanism for enhanced political and trade cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and Armenia. Modern will vote in favour of this agreement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will also vote on this issue - as I believe - as most of the Polish Sejm, that is perhaps everyone. However, it is worth noting why, as the European Union, we need to regulate relations with Armenia in a different way than we do with neighbouring Georgia or Ukraine. This is because the Armenians, of course, have chosen to participate in the so-called structures controlled and inspired by Moscow. the Euro-Asian community. I stress that Armenia had the right to do so, but at least as a friend of this country, I would certainly prefer that this process of Armenia's approach to Europe be carried out in a similar way as that is the case with Georgia and Ukraine already mentioned. I would also like to stress that it is a good thing that the European Union is showing cool pragmatism in this area, does not apply pressure or, colloquially speaking, does not offend itself, but still extends its hand to Armenia, showing our Armenian friends that here in the West, they are welcome. As we know, Armenia is now going through a rather turbulent internal period. This pro-Russian direction, as we hear, is not explicitly supported by all Armenians, which is why it is all the more good that the Armenian society will be signaled that the European Union does not close the door, and vice versa, the door is lifted. This agreement, which has a very important economic dimension, of course also for Poland - I will remind you that apart from the fact that Poland and Armenia have a simple economic exchange, we have in Poland quite a large Armenian community, and it is not only the historical one, coming from the times of the First Republic, because the Armenian emigrations to Poland took place after 1989 and these bonds are close - it is not only in the interests of Armenia, not only in the interests of the widely understood European Union, but also in the interests of the Republic of Poland, our homeland. Therefore, with all conviction the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of ratification. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u231	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 2432) together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs (print No 2482). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Majewski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the obligation under Article. 4 Act on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners I would like to present to you the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Act on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. It contains an analysis of the subject matter and presents the scale of interest of foreigners in acquiring real estate in 2017 as well as shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual real estate users in Poland. The data contained in the report reflect the number of decisions issued by the Minister in 2017 for the purchase by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares, as well as the scale acquired by aliens of real estate, shares and shares which illustrate the Minister's record of purchased real estate, shares and shares by permission and without the required permission. The year 2017 was the first reporting year when the amended law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners was in force. I would like to point out that 26 355 documents have been received by the Ministry this year, which, compared to 2016, resulted in an almost 57 percent increase in the number of documents. The main objective of the amendment to the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners was to build a new system for obtaining documents and information on transactions involving foreigners, in particular concerning capital transactions, so as to obtain the same information from different sources wherever possible. On the occasion of this amendment, the scope of the information obligation to notaries has also been extended, taking into account new documents which the Act has not yet provided for. In addition, public administrations are included in the catalogue of obliged entities. At this point, I would like to stress that the records of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in 2017 were drawn up on the basis of: extracts of notarial acts and copies of contracts with notarially certified signatures, extracts of certificates of inheritance together with extracts of inheritance protocols, copies of European certificates of succession, if they were found to have been inherited by the foreigner, copies of final decisions on the acquisition of the inheritance and copies of documents submitted to the register files, which show that there was an acquisition or acceptance of shares, shares or general rights and obligations by the foreigner in a commercial company which is the owner or perpetual user of real estate located in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In view of the above, the completeness of the records kept by the Minister depends to a large extent on the reliability of the statutory obligation to send the documents to the Minister by notaries and courts. To this end, together with the Ministry of Justice and the National Chamber of Notarial Affairs, we are taking appropriate action. As in previous years, there are a small number of permits issued for the acquisition, acquisition of shares or shares in companies owned by or users of perpetual real estate located in Poland, because capital turnover for entities originating in the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation is free and free to do so. In accordance with the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, in 2017 the Minister responsible for Home Affairs issued 224 permits for the acquisition of 270 land, including 28 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property, 80 permits for the acquisition of 93 residential and commercial premises, 19 permits for the acquisition of shares and shares in companies owned or used for the perpetual property in Poland with an area of 88 ha. The permits concerned mostly properties located in Mazowieckie, Pomorskie, Zachodniopomorskie and Lubuskie voivodships. The authorisation holders were dominated by entities with or representing the capital of Ukraine and Belarus. Last year, the Home Minister issued 13 decisions refusing foreigners permission to acquire land, premises, shares and shares. Within this number, negative decisions were issued because the foreigner failed to show his permanent relationship with Poland or not to comply with the statutory conditions justifying the issue of the permit. Within the framework of all refusals, one decision was issued because of the opposition of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall also undertake activities within the framework of the statutory powers to examine the legality of the acquisition by foreigners of immovable property, shares or shares. Where it is found that the transaction has been concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Property Acquisition Act, an entry in the Register of real estate acquired by foreigners shall be made with or without authorisation. As in recent years, most buyers have been citizens and entrepreneurs from the European Economic Area. The interest of foreigners in Polish real estate trading is constant. According to the data collected in the registers it appears that foreigners purchased land with a total area of 4483 ha on the basis of registered transactions, including agricultural and forestry property with a total area of more than 1 000, both on the basis of the required permission and without the obligation to apply for authorisation in 2017. ha based on 772 registered transactions, residential and utility premises with a total area of 754 998 m2 based on 6385 transactions. 91 acquisitions of shares or shares were registered in companies owned or perpetually owned by real estate with a total area of 2478 ha. In 2017, the largest number of real estate foreigners purchased in Mazowieckie, Pomeranian and Lower Silesian voivodships, and among the buyers dominated entities with nationality or representing the capital of Germany, the Netherlands and Austria. Given that the authorisation is valid 2 years from its date of issue and only the parties to the transaction depend on the conclusion of the contract, the data on the number of authorisations in the calendar year concerned do not correspond to the data on the real estate acquisition transactions made on the basis of the permit. Moreover, not every permit means the actual acquisition of the property by the foreigner, because the parties to the transaction may waive the intention to conclude the contract. In accordance with the Article. 6 Act to acquire property by a foreigner contrary to the provisions of the Act is invalid, and the annulment of the acquisition is ruled by the court at the request of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but this right holds the competent local authority, the governor, the Marshal of the voivodeship or the voivodeship. In 2017, 129 transactions entered into in breach of the law were recorded. Among these cases, in 72 cases, as a result of the actions taken by the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of the parties to the transaction, they themselves led to compliance with the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, while in the remaining 59 cases the Minister referred to the courts for annulment of the acquisition of immovable property by law. In conclusion, it should be noted that the revised provisions of the Law on the Acquisition of Real Estate by Aliens in force from 1 January 2017 have sealed and created a system for obtaining documents by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to monitor trends in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners and to analyse the scale of interest of individual groups of entities, individuals and entrepreneurs representing foreign capital, the acquisition of specific types of real estate and the degree of interest in such real estate in individual voivodships. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment of the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws of 2 December 2017 was fulfilled. The records are a database containing information on the property acquired by foreigners and the data of the companies in which foreign nationals acquired or acquired shares. These data are primarily derived from notarial acts sent, court orders and are obtained in the course of investigations carried out by the Authority. It should be noted that it is very important to ensure that the documents relating to the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares are fairly transmitted by courts and notaries so that the records kept by the Minister contain complete data in this regard. It also requires that, despite the completion of all the transitional periods which were required by authorisation, namely the property acquired by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is still the authority empowered to monitor the trading of immovable property with the participation of foreigners by keeping a register of immovable property, shares and shares acquired or covered by aliens. As already mentioned, the Act of 2 December came into force on 1 January. The key changes are the extension of the catalogue sent by the notary and the courts of documents, the inclusion of all documents resulting from notarial activities and any documents submitted to the register files resulting in the acquisition of real estate. The extension of the above catalogue resulted in a significant inflow, the impact of documents to the Minister, i.e. from 15 151 in 2016 to 26 355 in 2017, representing an increase of 57% documents which must be examined in substance. Among the new documents on which the obligation to send them was introduced by the above mentioned document. amendment of the law, the significant impact of a copy of the agreements with notarially certified signatures by which the foreigner acquired or took up shares, shares or general rights and obligations in a commercial company owned or perpetual user of real estate located in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as the extracts of the certificates of inheritance together with the signature of the inheritance protocol shall be observed. At the same time, it should be stated that the amendment of the Act by extending the information obligation on certain legal events to which the foreigner is party within the meaning of the provisions of the Act had a positive effect on the certainty of economic turnover. The amendment also caused that the data entered in the registers allow to illustrate the level of interest of foreigners in real estate located in Poland and their participation in the Polish capital market. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When presenting the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of property by foreigners, I kindly request its acceptance and remain at your disposal. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u233	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Mr Edward Siarka to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I present a report on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs shall, after having considered the report on 8 May 2018, request that it be adopted without consideration by the High House. At this point, as rapporteur, I would like to point out that the whole discussion on the implementation of the provisions of the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners is now focused on the question of how this law is respected by notarial firms and whether there is further circumvention of the provisions of that law. In fact, I can say that there was a discussion in committee on these main topics. I would also like to remind you that since 1 May 2016 foreigners from the European Economic Area can purchase land and real estate in Poland, no longer legitimizing themselves with the permission of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. On the other hand, those foreigners who are outside this area are still required to obtain appropriate permission. All these agreements in the light of the regulations in force in Poland are of course recorded at the moment, and all data related to the acquisition of real estate by foreigners is included in print No. 2432. Thank you, Marshal, and I ask the High House to accept the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u235	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u236	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, print No 2432. This document analyses this issue and presents the scale of interest of foreigners in acquiring real estate in Poland in 2017, as well as shares and shares in companies that are owners or users of perpetual real estate in Poland. The reference year is the first year under the rule of the amended provisions of the Act, the purpose of which was to build a system of obtaining documents and information on transactions involving foreigners. In 2017, 26 355 documents were received by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration on the basis of an entry in the Minister's Register, which, compared to 2016, represents a nearly 57 percent increase in the number of documents. It's the effect of the law that I mentioned earlier. In 2017, the Home Affairs Minister issued 224 permits for the acquisition of 270 land with a total area of 22.9 ha, including 28 permits for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property with a total area of 5 ha, 80 permits for the acquisition of 93 residential and commercial premises with a total area of 5957 m2, 19 permits for the acquisition of shares and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate in Poland with an area of 88 ha. These permits concerned mostly properties located in Mazowieckie, Pomorskie, Zachodniopomorskie and Lubuskie voivodships. The authorisation holders were dominated by entities representing the nationality or capital of Ukraine and Belarus. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs in 2017 issued 13 decisions refusing to authorise the acquisition of real estate and shares. Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in the framework of statutory powers also undertook activities in the field of investigating the legality of the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares or shares In 2017, 129 transactions entered into in breach of the law were reported. Among these cases, 72 cases as a result of the actions taken by the minister of the parties to the transaction themselves led to a state in accordance with the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. On the other hand, in 59 cases, the Minister referred to the courts for annulment of the acquisition of real estate under the law. In conclusion, it should be noted that the revised provisions of the Foreign Property Purchase Act, which were in force from 1 January 2017, sealed and created a system for the acquisition by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of necessary documents enabling the monitoring of the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its opinion on print No 2432. Ladies and gentlemen! As we analyze every year the report by the Minister of Home Affairs on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. We wonder if the information obtained reflects the actual level of interest of foreigners in our real estate. The 2017 report is the first report after the entry into force of the Act of 6 December 2016, which extends the catalogue of documents which the Minister of Home Affairs obtains. Thus, 532 requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares were received by the Minister of the Interior. 323 permits have been issued. This would seem to be a good result, but unfortunately 272 suspension and extension provisions have also been issued. Dear Minister, As early as 2017, you became aware of the problems, so in February 2017, you changed the regulation on the procedure and the keeping of real estate registers. In § 4 you have extended the deadline to 2 months when the Minister is to enter an entry in the register, and you have even entered an indefinite period, which is 2 months from the date of completion of the investigation. So how much do you have? To settle a case? As much as you want, as much as you'll explain. As of today, we received such information at the committee meeting that it is from 4 to 5 months. In 2017, more than 26 000 were received by the Minister of the Interior. documents subject to this analysis. That's actually a 57% increase, we all knew that. How much of this have you been able to analyze? About 18,000, and there's eight and a half thousand left on the table. documents, of which 7,5 thousand. concerns legal trading and almost 1000 are notarial acts. Ladies and gentlemen, 8.5. thousands. The paperwork is 30%. As early as 2017, you were aware that problems with proper keeping of the register were beginning. You've changed the regulation I was talking about, and yet 8,000. the documents were unexamined. For what reason? Is it because of the insufficient number of people who have been employed, the wrong organisation? Have you made and what changes in terms of staff enhancement? At the committee meeting, we asked these questions, unlike the rapporteur, because these things were not just about notaries, because we already have a smaller problem with notaries, and here it turns out that you are extending the possibility of dealing with these matters indefinitely. At the committee meeting we learned that these arrears are due to the fact that you are, I quote, reliable in your work. Does that mean that all those who do their jobs on time are unreliable? I don't think so. So let's ask the question: Do the registers kept by the Minister of Home Affairs really reflect real estate trading? They don't reflect. Is the information collected properly processed? As I set an example, 30% unprocessed, which means they're not. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague will provide even more detailed information on agricultural property, and I am in the hands of your Marshal on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to reject the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration from the implementation in 2017 of the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u239	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the register kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in 2017, 5464 land purchase transactions by foreigners with a total area of 4483 ha were registered. This area was about 1300 ha larger than in 2016, which means an increase of 41%. 772 transactions related to agricultural and forestry real estate with a total area of 1069 ha, including 107 ha were forest land. Natural persons acquired 907 ha. Compared to 2016, when foreigners acquired 576 ha of agricultural and forestry property, in 2017 there was an increase of 86%. Companies in which foreign nationals acquired shares or shares were owners or users of perpetual 1756 ha of agricultural and forestry real estate, including: 127 ha acquired German capital, 227 ha - Dutch capital, 133 ha - Cypriot capital and 39 ha - Danish capital. The most, because as many as 763 ha, agricultural and forestry land was owned by companies in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, i.e. where farmers most protested against the sale of land to foreigners. This is a paradox, High Izbo. Compared to 2016, when the corresponding area was 979 ha, there was an increase of 79%. Here we would ask the Minister to clarify this situation because it is very disturbing. The data presented in the report indicate that in 2017 there was a significant increase in the area of agricultural and forestry land acquired by foreigners in comparison with 2016 and, secondly, the area of agricultural and forestry land owned or owned by perpetual commercial law companies in which foreign nationals acquired or acquired shares. The data contained in the report indicate that despite the introduction in 2016 of restrictive restrictions on the trading of agricultural land and the shares and shares of companies with such land, as well as the actual detention of privatisation of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury, which was intended to prevent the purchase of Polish land by foreigners, the scale of this phenomenon is increasing. It follows that the Law of April 2016 on land protects agricultural land from Poles themselves, apparently not from foreigners. So why maintain laws that hinder investment in the country, complicate housing in rural areas, make it difficult to settle property in Polish families and disorganize bailiff executions, and deprive farmers of the right to freely dispose of property? This report is a set of tables, dry statistics, without further analysis and conclusions. We do not know what impact this restrictive land law of April 2016, which was a flagship project of the Law and Justice Government, had on the sphere of acquisition of agricultural property by foreigners. We would like to know, Minister, whether the rules are insufficient, whether they are being avoided, or perhaps there are other reasons. We'd like to know the Home Office's analysis of this case. There is also a question about the validity of maintaining a five-year statutory ban on the sale of agricultural land from the resources of the State Treasury to Polish citizens and more. Polish farmers and, above all, tenants cannot increase their farms, and the prices of the land are slower, but, contrary to the expectations of the rulers, are still increasing. According to the analysis of the report, the heroic defence of the Polish land, which is conducted by the current government, turns out to be an empty political slogan, mainly launched before the elections, without real content. Therefore, the question remains, Madam Marshal, High Izbo, why Polish farmers and Polish citizens must suffer from such rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. At first, I will have a mandatory ride, and then I will allow myself a little comment, because even this dry data shows how many mistakes have been made, for example, in making certain laws by the parliamentary majority. In 2016, the Government of Law and Justice introduced restrictions on agricultural land trading in the Republic of Poland, limiting the possibility of selling agricultural land within the administrative borders of cities which - as many times stressed and alarmed - will not have an essential impact on the purchase of Polish land by foreigners, but will drastically prevent Polish citizens from trading private agricultural land in terms of both their sale and their purchase. Today we are discussing a report prepared by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration concerning, among others. this issue and how the acquisition of land by foreigners developed in 2017. This cannot be separated from this unfortunate, fatal act that was introduced earlier. The Minister's report states that in 2017 a total of 532 requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual real estate located in Poland were received. This number covered 502 applications for real estate, the remaining 30 applications concerned shares and shares. The Ministry issued 323 permits, 13 negative decisions and 272 provisions, among others. on suspension and suspension of proceedings. In 2017, foreigners obtained a total of 224 permits for the acquisition of land with a total area of 22.9 ha, including legal persons received 2 permits for the acquisition of real estate with a total area of 0,19 ha of real estate, and individuals received 222 permits for the acquisition of real estate with a total area of 22,71 ha. To remind you that in 2016 these figures developed as follows. The total number of requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies is 486, which with 532 applications in 2017 results in an increase of 46 applications in 2017. Applications for real estate were 478, which, with 502 applications in 2017, resulted in an increase of 24 applications. Conclusion on shares and shares - 8 which, with 30 applications in 2017, results in an increase of 27 applications. Authorisations - 356 at 323 in 2017 and refusals were 35 at 13 in 2017, which gives a minimum decrease. In 2016, foreigners obtained a total of 251 permits to acquire land with a total area of 79.81 ha and in 2017. A total of 22,9 ha were authorised to acquire real estate, including legal persons in 2016. 18 permits for a total area of 47,7 ha and in 2017 2 such permits were granted for the acquisition of real estate of 0,19 ha and 233 permits for the acquisition of real estate of a total area of 32,1 ha in 2016 and 222 permits for the acquisition of real estate of 22,71 ha in the following year. As in the 2016 report, it is also stated in the 2017 report that, after a comparison of data for the last 5 years, it is concluded that both the number of permits issued for the acquisition of land by foreigners and the area of the premises covered by the permits have decreased significantly. This is a very interesting statement, because from this data there is no decrease, and certainly not significant. The ministry may have another idea of a significant drop, but it's kind of weird. While it is still possible to agree with such a theory that, as far as the surface is concerned, it has decreased slightly, and this is not the trend that you have caused by your law, because this trend has already been seen before... This decrease is probably due to the lack of interest in this type of real estate in Poland. We can probably add a lot of different reasons to this: perhaps just the lack of attractiveness of investment in Poland, the lack of attractiveness of driving here business activity, which is going to deepen, because in a moment Czechs and Slovaks will take over most of the Polish business activity, our native entrepreneurs, because the state so, and not otherwise, you conduct economic policy. In fact, this trend is much more long-term and it is difficult to say that it is caused in any way by the laws that you have introduced. I'm not going to exchange all these details here anymore, as long as this drop has taken place. In any event, in the case of the number of licences issued, this information appears to be at least increasing as there were 318 licences in 2012, 252 licences in 2013, 271 licences in 2014, 335 licences in 2015, 251 licences in 2016, 224 licences in 2017. I do not see any significant decline here, but perhaps I do not fully know what is the definition of a significant decrease in ministerial terms. In fact, there are two important things that need to be taken into account, two growing ones. The first is the clear dominance of Ukrainian entities, because they actually appear. This is an element that we should also consider. The total number of permits for the acquisition of real estate in 2017 in this case is 134 properties with a total area of 14.02 ha. I do not want to say that this is wrong, but we should also pay attention to this, because there is a shift in purchasing these properties from this, say, a pool of Western European entities towards Ukrainian entities. The second point is to increase the interest in utility and residential premises in this sector, coupled with a nearly double increase in their purchased area. This is the result of the fact that we are actually losing Polish workers who are emigrating to the West, and we need to save ourselves from Eastern immigration. This is not a thing that is positive for the government, because it still does not stop the trend that we have been fighting to stop it for years, but we are still in the same process that took place. So that from this data we can also conclude some failure of the government in the matter of arresting Polish citizens in Poland. The Minister's report for 2017, similarly to this, concerns the 2016 report, in addition to the information on the significant decrease in permits issued over the last 5 years, together with the figures provided - as I said - is not exactly how this is done - but does not provide more data on the total number of applications that would show the scale and the evolution of interest of foreign entities or foreign entities in the acquisition of real estate in our country over recent years. The 2017 data cited in the report confirms in our opinion that the problem of buying land and especially real estate in Poland does not exist. In fact, your law, so restrictive, touched only the citizens of Poland. Bartosz Józwiak, a Member, cannot buy land in Poland, but all foreigners can buy this land. You've achieved this very well. I'm a second-class citizen whose constitution doesn't really apply. But these are already problems that do not concern the ministers who are here. Minister Jurgel, Minister of Babalski, could use some help, but they probably still have their Maoist theories about Polish agriculture, and they don't have time to show up here. Ladies and gentlemen! We will consider at the club whether to accept this report because we have one more problem. Well, the state has actually introduced a very restrictive law, which may be good from the statistical point of view of last year, but unfortunately you are unable to use this data. The figures that were presented at the committee meeting were part-data, which in some ways gives rise to some ridicule in relation to the ministry. Because if someone comes in and presents incomplete data at the committee meeting, it's not exactly serious. In this situation, we really do not know whether we are able to vote in favour of a report that is not entirely credible to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u243	Thank you. High Seym! Young people from Primary School No.1 in Wejherów in the Pomeranian Voivodeship are listened to. Welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Paweł Majewski will now speak at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to address a few points briefly. Of course, detailed answers to your specific questions will be given in writing, and I would like to point out that the statements made by your Members raise issues that are not necessarily about what we are debating today, namely the reports of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation of the law on which there is a commitment, only the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. And I would like to point out that there is a completely different question to be discussed. [[Same thing, Minister.]] Of course, the charges that were brought here were also explained very thoroughly at the committee meeting. I would also like to stress in the plenary that the report is fully reliable and contains real data. I think that these allegations have already been explained several times and in a very thorough way at the committee meeting. I would just like to say that, as far as the functioning of this law is concerned, the Ministry is looking at the functioning of this law, which is also shown by the amendments to the regulation that we made in early 2017. We're looking at the functioning of this bill, and we're looking at our personnel resources. Of course, the idea that the administration should not grow significantly is governed by the rule of law and justice, which is why we have not created a new department due to the increase in the impact of these documents. On the other hand, we will examine whether the decision-making process could be more efficient. Such analyses shall be carried out at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I would also like to assure you that, at the moment, what you are going to see here as a Parliament is completely reliable, and I would very much like to ask you not to make such accusations. I think there are limits to political warfare, and this is not an area that should be attacked in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u245	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, if you don't see the connection between one law and the other, I'm sorry, but something's wrong here. I do not know if you analyzed what the two laws were supposed to do, because one and the other were to introduce certain restrictions so that there would not be an uncontrolled sale of Polish land. The difference is that, as a result of the preparation of this report, it turns out that only the latter law causes restrictions, and it is a restriction indeed for Poles that they cannot purchase land. I would therefore like to inform you that there is a causal link and that this should also be taken into account. If there is a situation in which the objective has not been achieved, it is necessary to consider which law should make some amendments in order to supplement it. But I'm getting back to the point. I am pleased to present the opinion of the Modern Club on printing No 2432, i.e. the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, hereinafter referred to as the Act, was amended in 2017. It is a legal act governing the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in Poland, because it introduces the general principle that the acquisition of real estate by a foreigner requires authorisation, which is issued by administrative decision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. This law also regulates the acquisition by foreigners of shares or shares in commercial companies established in the Republic of Poland which are owners or users of perpetual real estate. If I were to refer to this, it can only be said that of course the situation changed after Poland entered the European Union, therefore not all foreigners need to document the acquisition of the property with the appropriate permission. But I would also like to draw attention to one thing. In two years' time it will be 100 years since the law was introduced, and it would be good for the Law and Justice to make sure that the law it creates does not need after two weeks, three weeks or two months immediately to rewrite and amend it, because it is possible to prepare a good law that can serve Poland well for 100 years. This is about the data you have put here in this report. I will not hide that the reports for the years 2015, 2016 were reports that were, seem, more reliable, and this is because you have introduced an amendment of this law, which imposes an additional obligation on notaries so that documents flow in greater numbers. You yourself admitted in this report that 57% there has been an increase in the number of documents that have been sent, and there is a certain doubt that these data have actually been properly verified and that the data you have put in here is appropriate and reliable. I can honestly say that there are doubts and that is why the 2017 report raises our greatest reservations about reliability and credibility. But I'm gonna go back to some more data. There were only three complaints for 419 decisions in 2017. This is a very good result, so we assume that indeed if these decisions have already been issued, they have not raised any doubts and these complaints are at a very low level. If I may, I will return here to this increase in the number of these documents. Indeed, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration received as many as 26 355 documents to be analysed, 11 849 entries were made and 91 entries were made concerning the acquisition or entry by the foreigner of shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual agricultural property. As far as land real estate is concerned, on the basis of 5464 land real estate transactions were sold with a total area of 4483 ha, while on the basis of 6385 land real estate transactions, premises with a total area of 754 998 m2 were sold. These statistics do not differ specifically from those in previous reports. It can be said that indeed - it is Mr Józwiak who emphasized - but there is a shift and more people who are seeking to buy property in Poland, these are people from the East, i.e. from countries outside the eastern border, and fewer people are from the western side. However, in quantitative terms, Germany was still the largest population of those who bought property with a total area of 547 ha, second place are Austrian citizens, in the third - Belgium, the Netherlands, but already in fifth place - residents of Ukraine. It was already stated here that most of the ground real estate foreigners purchased in the territory of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, later Pomorskie, Dolnośląskie, Wielkopolska and Silesian Voivodeship. In 2017, 129 transactions entered into in breach of the law were recorded. Among these cases, in 72 cases as a result of the actions taken by the minister of the parties to the transaction, they themselves led to a state in accordance with the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners, declaring that the contract concluded by them is invalid, while in the other 59 cases the minister referred to the courts for annulment of those transactions by law. So it can be said that this check was quite efficient and based on these entries, the register has been partially analysed, I stress the partial, because not all these documents have been analysed. With all this in mind, I can honestly say that we have a dilemma as to how to deal with this report. It raises some doubts, raises some reservations. The Modern Club will decide at the last minute whether to support this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u247	Thank you. Now Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on this report and it will not be a positive position at all, but a position which will show errors in the policy pursued in relation to both the pre-election announcements and the realization of a good property management program for Poland, in the context of the acquisition of it by foreigners. It is worth recalling that this issue had already been regulated for the first time for the first time, because in 1920. Please note, then the young state decided that the fundamental thing is, in whose hands the Polish land is in, and not only the agricultural land, but also other properties. And then the laws that regulated the matter were adopted, they regulated, they limited the rights of foreigners to acquire land. Besides, this issue was very important during negotiations before Poland joined the European Union. It is worth remembering that the Treaty of the European Union states that, among other things, land trading is carried out freely in the European Union and should not be restricted. It was thanks to the integrity of Jarosław Kalinowski, then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, that the conditions were negotiated, that by 1 May 2016 agricultural land, but also other properties were protected by special treaty provisions which prevented their acquisition by foreigners. This is an outstanding contribution of the Polish People's Party to restricting the circulation of land in the area of acquisition by foreigners, because few European countries joining Poland at the time have negotiated such good conditions. One example can be given is Romania, which sold nearly 50% of the land to foreigners during these few years after accession. We didn't even have 0.1 of this indicator. And it is worth saying clearly that such a safeguard in the negotiating treaty has been enshrined. But it was in force, as I said, until 1 May 2016. After this period, land trading in Poland was released, so that the European Economic Area Agreement and the Swiss Confederation, which allowed citizens of these regions to acquire land in Poland, became operational. Knowing what might happen and seeing the interest in the Polish agricultural land, as the Polish People's Party, we prepared a good law at the end of the last term, which effectively limited the rotation and acquisition of the land by foreigners, but at the same time caused Polish farmers to freely acquire the land - both in the trade between farmers and the one which is today in state resources - so as to increase their farms, to concentrate the land in one hand. This would be possible with long-term lending, i.e. even those farmers who did not have the funds to buy the land could obtain preferential, long-term loans to increase their holdings. Minister! Don't say - as you said to a colleague who spoke earlier - that this doesn't involve the report that you presented because it is directly related to him. If we are talking about land, about real estate in the context of foreigners, then both of these issues need to be considered. The state - I'm talking about PiS - has decided that this bill proposed by us is a bad law. I don't know why. You wanted to have any accomplishment to prove that you were defending the Polish land. But when we fought for her defence to be enshrined in the accession treaty, you were not interested. You were more interested in convincing Polish farmers, Polish citizens that entering the European Union would be a huge disaster, that there would be a massive buy-out of the land. You've built your political position on this. Unfortunately, you were doing the same thing before the election, thinking that this land would end up in the hands of foreigners in huge numbers. Please note that the court has recently discontinued proceedings against those farmers against whom there were allegations that they constitute pillars, that they serve as companies so that foreigners can buy land. So your next theory is ruined. You have prepared a law that you believe was intended to effectively limit the acquisition of land by foreigners and to regulate the marketing of agricultural land. And while in the first case it does not differ significantly from what we presented at the end of last term, in the case of agricultural land trading between Polish farmers you have introduced restrictions, which today result in what all - including experts and economists - see with the naked eye. You have inhibited the process of expanding Polish farms. You have slowed down the process of placing parcels together to make the farm grow, so you have ruined one of the basic elements of modern agriculture, which is the concentration of land and the expansion of farms, which is associated with their economic efficiency. Of course, you have also done a thing that we think is equally bad, namely you have stopped the transformations into lands that are property of the State Treasury, claiming that the form of lease of state property is better than the form of private property. This is a mistake. The northern and western lands should now be placed in the hands of Polish farmers in the form of a notarial deed of ownership, not in the form of leases from the agency, from the National Agricultural Support Centre. This land should be permanently placed in the hands of Polish farmers so that no one ever has any doubts about whose it is. And in the event that it is still a state land, such doubts may arise one day. And don't laugh about it, because history isn't history. 5, 10 or 20 years ago, only history has a longer perspective. In my opinion, the permanent development and permanent security of Polishness on this land is the possession of this land by Polish farmers in the form of a notarial act. Of course, we said this during the debate, but it did not reach you and you decided to adopt this restrictive law, which, as I said earlier, limits the marketing of agricultural land in Poland. I do not know why you also insisted that only a plot of less than 0,3 ha may be excluded from this law, when another law states that a farm in Poland is a plot of 1 to 300 ha. So there's no connection here. In turn, in another law, you maintained that agricultural parcels could not be divided into less than 0.3 ha, which means that in fact no agricultural land of even 0.3 ha or not much more than 0.3 ha could be allocated to rural settlements. If someone wants to come and settle in the countryside, change the landscape of this village, introduce new infrastructure, bring some modernity, entrepreneurship there, today there is no such possibility, because it is impossible to acquire this land without fulfilling the conditions set out in the definition of a farmer. Surprisingly, you have maintained the provisions of the 1920 Act, which I quoted, that in the case of foreigners this restriction is already 0.5 ha. So, however, it is confirmed by what the previous speakers said, that foreigners have better conditions in this regard, more opportunities than citizens of our country. But is that limitation you've caused effective? No, it's not. Already this report, which you are presenting, shows precisely in many places that this limitation is only theoretical, because gross or even significant decline in the sale of land which was in her hands other than the Polish one does not exist. No statistics confirm this, not even those presented by the States. Although cleverly, where sales have fallen or licences have fallen, you note, but where they have increased or been maintained at the same level, you are silent in this report. For example, it is not a report worthy of support. I would also like to say that one of the records is very interesting, which says that the permits for which foreigners have applied were met with a different reaction, positive, negative, but rather positive, which is that you gave consent both in the case of lands, these non-agricultural properties and agricultural land. And as a curiosity, I found there such a record that in just one case the Minister of Agriculture expressed a negative position. Where is he, Minister Jurgiel, your defense of Polish land before aliens buy it out? She's as visible as the rest of your business. I'm being ironic, which means she's not here. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats does not see any arguments today, unless some other arguments are presented to support this report. Let me say this: there is a direct link between this law and the law on shaping the agricultural system which you adopted, because the land in Poland - whether it is in the form of non-agricultural or agricultural property - is a great value. This is the foundation of the functioning of the state, so that within its borders Poles rule it. Nothing in this respect has been done by a positive state law. This report doesn't show that you have significantly changed the policy that was in previous years. That is why we will be wondering whether this report will support in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u249	Thank you. Five ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first Mr Ireneus Raś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As you can see from this discussion, which is taking place here, the bill is not well cut, because we have great bureaucracy and little effect. I have a question about 57%. more documentation has come to the ministry and there are huge congestions here. The point is that you answer me in writing whether there are also costs involved, or whether we bear more administrative costs. As you can see, the law itself does not implement this intention of the PR Law and Justice that it will limit the number of applications issued because it is comparable. Additional ineffective bureaucracy is being created. I would like to say that in the perspective there may also be such a situation: for a Pole to buy land, he will have to buy it for a foreigner. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u251	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u252	Minister! Just so we're clear, I didn't approve of you changing the regulation and writing it down that when you make the decision, it's good that you gave it away. I don't think that's glorious. I would like an answer, because a month ago, when we had a committee meeting, you failed to answer. You said you'd give me that answer. How many pending requests for permission to purchase real estate at the end of 2016 and 2017 were pending? Maybe today I'll get that answer. At the committee meeting you also said that the data contained in the report concern only documents analysed, i.e. those analysed, entered or not. How is this to be said on p. 49 of this report, that the increase in the number of transactions recorded in 2017 is mainly due to the practice that in previous years, after the investigation, there have been cumulative entries of many transactions that took place in previous years? Please indicate what number of these cumulative cases from previous years was entered in 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u253	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan... excuse me, Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Eight and a half thousand. the documents were not examined in 2017. That's 30% backlog. I dare say that this backlog will grow. Minister! Something's wrong. It just doesn't. I'd like to ask you about the personnel status of the registration and authorisation department. How many employees were employed at the end of 2016 and at the end of 2017? Have administrative costs increased? How are you going to deal with the backlog of document analysis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u255	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u256	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In the light of these data, does the Ministry want to ask the Ministry of Agriculture to amend the ineffective law on the restriction of agricultural land trading, which, in the light of data, limits the right to purchase land only to Poles? What happened until recently, I consider it a scandal that our national welfare, our mother's land was purchased by most citizens of other countries, among others. on the so-called. poles, without limits. Will the law change so that our countrymen can buy land? I will add that as a Koszalin resident in the past I participated in Koszalin protests against the sale of foreign land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u257	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it is known that in 2017 all the documents submitted to you have not been analysed, then please answer me one question: If they were all analysed, then this report would just be different? Would other data be included after analysis of all documents? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u259	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Majewski will now speak at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u260	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I hear a certain chuckle of history when Members of the coalition group ruling in the years 2007 to 2015 while on the streets... [[Who's in politics here, Minister? You're in politics right now...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u261	Mr President, did someone give you the floor? [[Substantively, please.]] Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Sir, it's gone... [[...you're not at the election rally.]] I'm calling you into order. You're interrupting... [[Then pay attention.]] You're welcome... [[Get to the point. Get to the point.]] Mr President, I warn you that I will have to use appropriate procedures if you do not calm down. You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: Thank you very much, Marshal. There have been a lot of political accusations here, which is why such a brief introduction was made by Members of this coalition, as well as Members who supported those governments, and today they are in political opposition parties... These situations that took place at the time, the protests of farmers in Szczecin against speculation of the land, against the sale of land to foreigners. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] ...that you are criticizing the amendment of the law, which led to the fact that today these protests do not exist, that this social problem has been eliminated. I understand that it is as if you did not see this problem at the time, but today there is no problem, and I think that this criticism of this law and these words which are falling here prove that you did not learn from what the Poles at that time hurt. I just want to say, because this is where the cost question came from... Of course, all these questions will be addressed in detail in writing. There was a question about the cost. The cost didn't go up. Document handling is on its own, through the MSWiA. Nor has employment increased as far as these departments are concerned. I'm sure we'll be... At the moment, an analysis is underway at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - after the 2017 experience and the 2017 report - whether organisational changes should not be carried out, but they will not involve an increase in costs. We may be making legislative changes or organisational changes, but we will not want to increase administrative costs. It is the responsibility of the Government of Law and Justice that the administration should not grow too much. As to what has already been explained to you, but the State continues to raise this thread - as regards these documents, as regards the record in the report on those documents remaining at the end of the year, of those 8 000. documents of 7 000 documents are documents which were not included in the register. Once again, I would like to stress that the number of documents that go to MSWiA under this law is much larger and the 7 000. documents are documents which are not subject to registration, approx. 1 000. documents are documents on which explanatory proceedings are carried out. She also asked about the end of the year. It is always that these cases from the end of the year, from December, from November, come to the beginning of the year, there were about 80 such cases. There are also incoming cases which require clarification, additional correspondence with the applicant. Thus it is never so that in a given year, at the end of a given year we are reflected one to one. As I said, as far as these questions are concerned, we will address them in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report presented. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 07 hrs. 16 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. I cordially welcome the students, winners of the competition of knowledge about the Sejm, who came from the area of the districts of Giżycki and Mrągowski. We're very happy for you. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017 (print No 2362) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 2565). I would ask the chairman of the National Judicial Council of Leszek Mazur to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to comply with the obligation under Article. 4th Act on the National Judicial Council I would like to present information from the activities of the National Council in 2017. This is the duration of the Council's previous composition and under a different leadership, so my report will be strictly formal and will rather be deprived of assessments of the Council's activities during the 2017 period. This relevant information, which includes a large number of figures, statistics, will allow me to anticipate the short introduction of legislative changes that have led to the structure and composition of the Council and the way it is set up in a new form, which will, of course, be reflected in the next year's report. These changes made in 2017, which were started in around May 2017, and completed in December 2017, had an impact on the functioning of the Council in 2017. These different legislative changes were an expression of the changing concepts of shaping the Council and how it was set up, aimed generally at increasing social control of the justice system in such a way that the composition of the part of the Council - i.e. 15 judges included in it - was appointed by the Sejm and not, as has been the case so far, by the judiciary. This first law was the Act of 11 May 2017, which limited the competence of the Council to appoint assesors only to the possibility of objecting. In addition, the number of members of the Board appointed to the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office has been reduced, while broadening the competence to assess the appeal of the Director of the Office. Previously, this competence was limited to the opinion of his vocation. It also introduced the possibility, or actually the obligation to include the electronic system in the review process of judges, which was intended to improve the functioning of the Council and to develop this legal provision in the Rules of Procedure which was adopted in September 2017. The main stage of the amendment was opened by a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 20 June 2017, in which the Constitutional Court challenged two essential provisions: one concerning the rules for the selection of judges to the National Courts Council, and the other concerning the understanding of the concept of term of office, i.e. the joint term of office and not the individual term of office. The development of these assessments by the Constitutional Tribunal was reflected in the draft two laws of 12 July 2017. One of them was an amendment to the Act on the National Judicial Council, the other was a law on the system of common courts. This first law granted the Sejm the right to elect 15 judges, provided for the termination by law of the employment relationship with the staff of the National Council's office and introduced an internal system of council consisting of the existence of two assemblies, which were to proceed in a quite complicated way due to the different weight and much voting or votes assigned to them. The broader development of this law is unnecessary because the President vetoed the law, it did not enter into force, and the second law I mentioned entered into force, which provided for two issues: one of fundamental importance, the other of secondary importance. In particular, the National Council was removed from the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts and provided for such an information obligation to the Minister of Justice in the event of a request for the return of the Judge to the judicial position after having submitted a mandate, for example. as a result of work in an international organisation. Finally, the state-of-the-art structure of the National Council was shaped by the Act of 8 December 2017 following the President's proposal for an amendment, which was a simple consequence of his previous veto. This law was dealt with by two fundamental systemic issues and three procedural issues, namely the right to elect 15 members of the national council granted to the Sejm, the adoption of a joint term of four years of this part of the judicial national council, while the procedural issues were in line with the requests to increase the transparency of the Council's operation, to improve the procedure before it and to introduce the obligation to broadcast board meetings via the Internet, to vote and adopt resolutions on a circular basis and to ask the Minister for Justice's opinion on each individual case. As far as action is concerned, the Board carried out its duties through its bodies, as well as through standing committees of four, problem committees, of which five were. The composition of the National Council in 2017 expressed certain trends that had been revealed, namely that one mandate had not been filled after the expiry of the mandate of Judge Prenety-Ambicka in November 2017. Failure to set this mandate was an expression of a certain temporary expectation of change, because the Minister of Justice did not initiate the procedure for filling this mandate in this case. On the other hand, it was worth noticing that 9 of the 15 judges in this 2017 composition repeated their terms of office, they were already the second terms of office, which was an expression of the duration of the council just in a specific composition. The spokesperson of the national council was Judge Waldemar Żurek, and the deputy was Sławomir Stick. The members of the National Council took part in the work of certain external actors. I have already mentioned the Programme Council of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Here, over the year 2017, there were three warehouses. Finally, the last one was Judge Dariusz Zawistowski in the implementation of this amended provision providing for the participation of only one person from the National Council in the composition of the Programme Council. In addition, Judge Wojtaszek took part in the judge's application contest, the judge Ewa Preneta-Ambick - in the judge's examination committee. Here, the competence of the board has also changed, because the powers of such an active member of the examination committee have only been brought into the role of observer, i.e. this competence has been changed in order to distinguish the stage of evaluation of the candidate, or as if in the process of acquisition of qualifications by the candidate, and later in the process of evaluating him as a whole in the board. One additional, although it may be said, secondary competence was to take part in the ruling committee in cases of violation of public finance discipline. Here, the participation of board members is optional. Basic statistics showing numerically the effects of the Council's work in 2017 are reduced to the following basic data. The Council held 18 plenary sessions lasting 57 days, presented 99 people to the President with requests for appointment to judge positions, 464 opinion groups were set up, which also took place, in addition to the examination of source material, i.e. these various opinions, assessment of visitors, meetings with candidates, court presidents, heads of departments and visitors. These meetings were held at 110. Compared to 2015 and 2016, it can be noted that the number of meetings and the number of days of these meetings are virtually identical. The number of persons proposed for appointment has been reduced almost four times, which was due to the fact that the procedure for filling posts was not initiated, i.e. there were no announcements, which involved inter alia. except that it was as if there were a pool of seats for graduates or assesors, i.e. graduates of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, who applied for the positions of assesors. An important measure in the work of the council, such as: The Supreme Audit Chamber shall be used to assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the various institutions, including the national council, as a measure of the duration of the opinion-making procedure. In 2015 it was 65 days, in 2016 - 66 days, and in 2017 - 54 days, which indicates high efficiency. I ignore the tables that are contained in the report, both the short ones and the full ones, because these are already very detailed data and their presentation or attempt to discuss them will not provide any relevant information. I will only stop at the evaluation of this final stage of the nomination procedures, because they assume an appeal to the Supreme Court. 35 such appeals were brought to the Supreme Court. The Court of First Instance recognised 34 cases in substance, repealed the resolution of the national council in 11 cases. This gives the efficiency or stability of these resolutions at 65% and this should be assessed as high stability. An important episode at the council's work was the issue of appointment to the position of assessors. Speaking of episodes, I do not intend to diminish the importance of this work or this part of the activity. He was so important that he aroused a lot of public interest. This part of the activity was opened with a summary list of requests to entrust judicial assistants with the duties of a judge. This was received on 13 October 2017, but due to the controversy between the Council and the Ministry of Justice regarding the completeness of documents allowing the position to be taken [[♪ The bell ♪]] - in particular, the lack of access to the IT system and insufficient documents in paper form - on 30 October 2017, the Council adopted 265 resolutions in secret voting. Later, due to these controversys and criticisms expressed by the media, the public opinion returned to this issue again and, following the re-examination of the matter by resolutions of 17 November, repealed the objections in 252 cases, and in eight cases refused to repeal those resolutions. They were later referred to by the Supreme Court and some of these appeals are recognised. One of the last decisions of the Supreme Court came to pass a few days ago. In general, the direction of the assessments that can be read from the justification of the Supreme Court's position is such that the assessments of these candidates should be dealt with in a less rigorous, less formalistic way. It was, among other things. the issue of integrity of character, which by the council was questioned with a calling for it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u263	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman, to conclude slowly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u264	...that the candidate e.g. committed traffic offences, which by the Supreme Court have been assessed as inconclusive to the finding that such a person is impeccable in character. Caution is indicated in these assessments in so far as, as has been pointed out, the statement of opposition to an asessor with a calling for such a circumstance actually closes him to the profession, i.e. equals such an assessment with the most severe disciplinary penalty, where this would be the case for example. Judge. In 2017, it was moved to a resting state...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u265	Mr. Chairman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u266	Resolutions were adopted on 33 persons, and nine were refused to adopt such a resolution. I will only present the second aspect of the Council's work very quickly and briefly, i.e. the opinion of legal acts. The Council gave an opinion on 138 opinions. This is slightly less than in 2015 and 2016, but this is due to the improvement of the procedure for these assessments and the elimination of acts, draft legislative acts which do not relate to the scope of the national council, already at the preliminary stage, i.e. some selection by the President. However, this does not mean a reduced scope of work in this area. I do not know, Mr. Marshal, whether to present here the issue of cooperation of the international council.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u267	Proceed to the end. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u268	Maybe I will just mention the views of the Council on more general matters, given their importance for the independence of the judiciary. That was, for example. positions concerning the threats of independence of judges related to the prosecution's activities or statements of property status of judges, positions on the Congress of Polish Lawyers, on the absence of announcements of the Minister of Justice with free judicial positions or on the actions of the prosecutor presenting significant threats to the independence of judges, positions on the appeal of the vice-presidents of the District Court in Warsaw, crossing the borders of administrative supervision by the minister or the media campaign of the national foundation, positions on judicial assistants, appeals of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts, and last, on 20 December 2017, in relation to statements by the President of the Council of Ministers on the judiciary. And one last thing. The 2017 National Council did not exercise its competence in initiating constitutional control and on 8 March 2017 withdrew four proposals from 2016 addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal concerning certain provisions of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the supervision of the Minister of Justice of the Courts, the Rules of Procedure of the General Courts. Maybe I'll limit the information to that data. On the other hand, I remain available for questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ms Krystyna Pavłowicz, Law and Justice, who will present the position of the committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u270	Thank you. Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of yesterday's meeting, where information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017, prints 2362 and 2565 were heard. The report was briefly presented by Judge Dariusz Drajewicz, Vice-President of the National Judicial Council. He provided the committee with information which had been drawn up by the previous Vice-President of the National Judicial Board of Judge Jan Kremer. The information was, in principle, a summary of 243 pages of statistics, figures, columns, all of which were mainly formal and did not cover what is the full meaning of the In addition to the statistics, it was not actually due to this information, which, as I say, Judge Drajewicz merely referred. He is not the author, the current council is not the author of this information. In fact, it did not show much, and there was little to learn about the actual activities of the National Judicial Council. Following the presentation of the information, a turbulent discussion followed, it can be said that the following arguments and assessments concerning the National Judicial Council were put forward. First of all, 2017 was the year of revolts of anti-constitutional judicial circles inspired and supported by the National Council of Courts, it was the year of expressing constitutional obedience to the authorities, also in resolutions and in the activities of the National Council of Courts. The year 2017 was the year of speeches, actions, trips of foreign members of the National Judicial Council, whose aim was to attack and criticize the current authorities of the Republic of Poland for the implementation of the victorious electoral programme, for the reform of the justice system. The year 2017 was the year of mobilisation by the National Council of the Courts of Foreign Organisations, Union, Venice committees, international judicial organizations, networks of courts, etc., against the reforms introduced in Poland by the legal Polish authorities. Of course, the National Judicial Council secretly entered the powers of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in secret to the members of the National Judicial Council as Members, conducted its own foreign policy in relations with EU entities, with Mr Timmermans went to meetings. In Poland, too, she met with the German ambassador, who also received a distorted image of Polish reforms and complaints in secret from the members of the National Council of Courts as Members. The National Council of Courts mobilized all possible foreign structures with lying messages, demanding intervention in the internal affairs of Poland. Today, these lies of the National Court Council result in difficulties and attacks on Poland, refusals from foreign courts to apply international procedural measures, e.g. refusal to issue a Polish criminal pursued by a European BOLO entitled to do so to authorities in Poland, courts in Poland. The information of the National Judicial Council completely ignores the numerous areas of action of the National Judicial Council in 2017. The fact that the national council took part - and co-financed them and co-organized them - in anti-government, anti-Sejm, anti-Presidential and anti-Constitution assemblies and conventions of lawyers, the conferences at which they were proclaimed - and demanded their application in judicial practice - was completely ignored, and the role of the Constitutional Tribunal as a slogan, e.g. the so-called. distributed constitutionality control, anarchizing the Polish legal system and the operation of courts. The National Judicial Council, like some of the judges' communities, particularly those of the higher courts, boycotted the Constitutional Tribunal, called on judges not to comply with its judgments, to disregard the judgments handed down with the participation of certain judges whose members of the National Judicial Council did not recognize by contemptuously calling the understudy. It also called for an independent assessment of the constitutionality of law at all levels of justice. In practice, the National Judicial Council also rejected in its speeches the fundamental principle of interpretation of law, i.e. the presumption of constitutionality of law adopted by the competent authority, i.e. by the Sejm, which, of course, caused great confusion and damage to legal awareness and culture. This element was also part of irresponsible legal anarchy, swinging the entire legal system. The 2017 National Judicial Council, together with other rebellious legal environments, some lawyers, some scientists, some legal advisers, part of judges, also challenged the fundamental principle of the system at its meetings, art. 4 the Constitution that the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to a nation which exercises its power by representatives, i.e. the Sejm, the Senate, or by a referendum. It was said the other way around. At one of these meetings with the National Judicial Council and her co-organized prof. The ashes claimed that no nation was a sovereign, but that the values of the Constitution were interpreted by judges. Such statements and such slogans have, in principle, undermined another cardinal principle, Article. 10 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, three divisions and balance of the authorities. The judges promoted the constitutional slogan of primacy, full immunity of judges, including before the nation, judges and the entire judicial authority. In 2017, the national council took part in undermining the authority of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, ridiculously, as I said, and offensively calling them doubles, withdrawing part of the conclusions from the Constitutional Tribunal, denying the tribunal the legality of its action. Such harassment or terrorisation of judges - some judges - the Constitutional Tribunal, which the opposition did not recognize - Judge Cioch and Judge Moravian paid with their lives. They died doing their job. The National Judicial Council, together with the judges' associations, organised reports on Poland to twin foreign organizations. Many resolutions of the 2017 National Judicial Council were political in nature and were a form of political struggle with the state authorities. During yesterday's discussion on information, the opposition focused on personal attacks on a member of the current National Judicial Council of Judge Drajewicz, and in particular in a surrogate way humiliated him and presented him, harassed him, apologized, did not cling, referred intentionally and lyingly, insinuatingly his judicial achievements, career achievements and ways of reaching the judicial function. It was very personal, very private, which was absolutely outrageous. And as this has been done repeatedly, it has been interrupted, that Judge Drajewicz has been interrupted, and the chairman of the committee has several times announced that he should apply to the ethics committee against three people for punishment for such behaviour. And, in fact, so far, these people have not apologized to the Vice-President of the National Judicial Council. The opposing Members, on the other hand, justified the rebellion of the judges of the National Judicial Council and anti-constitutional actions. One of my fellow Members, Mr Sanocki, said that justice reforms should go even further and should be even deeper. There were also voices that the previous National Judicial Council did not demonstrate the necessary apoliticality and restraint. The task of the National Judicial Council is not to address all the actions that are taking place in Poland and everything that is happening around it. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has listened to the information and has taken note of it because it does not vote, but it has been assessed incredibly critically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u271	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by a representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice by Mr Marek Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my views on the information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017 contained in print No 2362. The National Judicial Council should uphold the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts. It has instruments which are defined in the Constitution and in the Act on the basis of which the National Judicial Council operates. Of course, these actions are mentioned in the information submitted. The information shall include statistical data relating to the activities of the Board, and information concerning the examination and evaluation of candidates for the positions of Judges, the statement of objections to judicial assistants, matters relating to the transfer of judges to retirement, the opinion of the activities of the National Judicial Board, as well as activities relating to the organisation of conferences, meetings, seminars, international activities as well as other information. And in this descriptive-factographic layer, statistically, you know, the club takes note of this data. At this point, however, it would be worth quoting what Mrs Pawłowicz said a year ago when she spoke on behalf of the club about the activities of the National Judicial Council in the context of the information submitted for 2016. She said that, in accordance with the Constitution, the National Judicial Council was to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The National Judicial Council is to ensure that judges comply with a ban on constitutional conduct of public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of courts and the independence of judges. In particular, judges must remain apolitical and the National Judicial Council must not join any political agenda or participate in current political and political disputes. However, in 2016 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No The National Judicial Council continued its political activity against judicial reform projects carried out by the new authorities elected in the 2015 elections. This is reflected in the report presented by the National Council of Courts, in various opinions and resolutions adopted by the Council and in the organisational, foreign or media activities of the Council. It can be said that in 2016. The National Judicial Council focused mainly on actions not foreseen for it in the Constitution, in the Law on the National Judicial Council or became an important element of the anti-government political opposition. It adopted numerous anti-government and anti-Presidential resolutions awaiting or demanding the withdrawal of the Sejm and the President from the necessary changes in the organisation of justice. She has taken numerous steps in this direction. The Council, contrary to the principles of division of power, pursued its own foreign policy contrary to the interests of the Government of the Republic of Poland, consisting in making political complaints against the Polish government and the President to foreign centres. Nothing to add, nothing to say... [[Just shoot.]] ...in fact, these words refer entirely to the year 2017, when the National Judicial Council, this is also the result of this report. The attached opinions, for example, to the draft laws proposed either by the government party or by the parliamentary majority, are assessed by the national council absolutely negatively. The only positive opinion that is attached to this information is the opinion on the opposition project. This already shows the involvement of the National Judicial Council last year on one side of the dispute, taking a stand on one side of the political scene. Of course, this is what the rapporteur spoke about today, and it is also an international commitment, an attempt to involve the European institutions in Poland's internal affairs. All this was evidence of only one thing, i.e. the involvement in the current political dispute, the defence of the status quo, the absolute opposition to the reformist actions of the Polish parliament, the Polish government. Today we are actually left with hope, because it was not possible to agree with this kind of action by the National Judicial Council. Moreover, they were at the heart of the proposal for amendments as regards the basis for the operation of the National Judicial Council. Hence the proposals first to amend the law, then the new law which you proposed to the President in terms of the functioning of the National Court Register, which was finally adopted on 8 December. r., of course, with the large opposition of the then National Judicial Council. Today, as I said, it is still hoped that, on the basis of the new rules and in the new composition, the National Judicial Council will be the body that will indeed uphold the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u273	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Boris Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u274	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Dear guests! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to speak in a debate that was intended to deal with the report of the National Judicial Council and has turned into speeches that have little in common with the report. Firstly, I would like to point out that it is absolutely false to say that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has taken a specific position presented by the Member who spoke on her behalf. I do not recall any resolution which would contain so many false, false, false, lying also, which are only the personal statements of the Member, not the statements on behalf of the committee. That's the first thing. The second very important thing. I wanted to thank you for this report of the last constitutional National Judicial Council, [[Applause]] because as we all know very well, this year we are not dealing with a constitutional body, after the changes which were made contrary to the Polish Constitution, after the changes which are aimed at the complete submission of the National Council of Courts to the executive authorities, which clearly violates the principle of three divisions of power resulting from the article. 10 Polish Constitution. Now I come only and only to thank you in the first place for what the National Judicial Council did in 2017. First of all, I come to thank you for your integrity in defending constitutional values, for not submitting to what the current authority has tried to do with Polish judges from the very beginning when this bad change took place. First of all, the National Judicial Council was not intimidated. She was not humiliated by a false campaign funded by public funds, which were spent on lying, slandering and humiliating the justice system. To humiliate Polish judges only because a few people with hatred for the human justice system are pushing a total demolishment in the justice system. Secondly, I come to thank the Polish judges for their steadfast attitude. The judges, who, contrary to the unprecedented campaign of hatred in the history of the Third Republic of Poland, remained independent in their positions, remaining in the most important of all, faithful to the Polish constitution. [[Applause]] It also comes to me to thank the last President of the National Judicial Council, who have been legally elected by the Constitutional Composition of the National Judicial Council, in the procedure provided for by the Constitution. These presidents have shown that the honor and faithfulness of the Constitution are more important than their own interests and their own interests. When they resigned, they showed what should be the most important thing for every judge. There was, there is no, and there will be no reform of the justice system. What was done with the National Judicial Council is its stubbornness against the Polish Constitution, it is the election of 15 judges to the National Judicial Council by a party majority. By a majority, which has already chosen its representatives to the National Council of Courts, as the Polish Constitution provides. But the most important thing, High Izbo, is that the National Judicial Council has lost this most important quality: the quality of independence. Well, the whole procedure for selecting members of the National Council of Courts from among judges will become a disgraceful card in the history of Polish parliamentarianism and in the history of Polish democracy. Well, 15 people who have been elected to the National Council of Courts are so ashamed of the person who supported them that until now the Minister of Justice and the Marshal of the Sejm in a manner contrary to Polish law secretes letters of support. But the symbol of the greatest disgrace of this choice will be resignations in the Ministry of Justice and appeals from the delegation of those judges who refused to sign a letter of support for the candidates to the National Court Council. This really shows how the current authority approaches the independence of the justice system. It's fiction. Let me later reproduce the statements of my predecessors who stood on this speaker, because the language, the way of argument, refers directly to what I thought was said to be good-bye in Poland in 1989. All I lacked was words about how this reactionary force is trying to stand up against the reformist aspirations of a great leader who wants to change this Poland, and this reaction coming from the West, from this evil European Union, from these evil United States, will now stand against this working-boy folk interest, which is presented by the present power. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is a shame for Polish parliamentarianism. This debate and these lying arguments, which have been cited here, show only that you have not grown to democracy, that you are mentally stuck in the Polish People's Republic, in an era characterised by the uniformity of state power. It was there that there was no three divisions, a judicial authority independent of the legislative and executive powers. That's exactly the model you presented. But what is it supposed to do? The answer is very simple. You are so afraid of independence, you are so afraid of independent institutions that could control you, that you will destroy any manifestation of independence. You destroyed the independent Constitutional Tribunal by putting three double judges in there and choosing the so-called "unconstitutional" procedure. President of the Constitutional Tribunal. You have destroyed the National Judicial Council, which at the moment cannot enjoy the quality of independence and independence, no matter how we do not judge the achievements of those who are there. First of all, however, you have proved that you did not mean any reform. For over two years, the Minister of Justice blocked several hundred judges' posts. He only did so and only to allow such Misiewiczs to enter justice, passive, mediocre, but faithful, who will follow orders from Nowogrodzka, through the new National Judicial Council. Because you don't like judges who can tell that a party party in Krakowskie Przedmieście doesn't have the character of a public assembly. You're afraid of judges who can acquit CODE activists because they've demonstrated against this power, which you don't. You wanted to destroy the independent justice system in Poland so badly that you used the most lying methods, spreading propaganda financed by the Treasury. And all this makes there is no National Judicial Council as a constitutional body. You have destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, you have destroyed the National Judicial Council, and in a few weeks you will destroy the Supreme Court only because you have not grown into democracy, you have not grown to understand that the division of power is that the executive and legislative authority is controlled by the judiciary, that it is not the judicial authority that is to be subordinated to the other two authorities. Therefore, with embarrassment, we come here to listen to arguments that have nothing to do with reality. You invited the Venice Commission, it was your minister who asked for control of what was happening in Poland, and then, when the result of this inspection was negative for you, you brought out these cannons of propaganda. At this point, I would like to thank the last legal constitutional National Judicial Council for its integrity. I wanted to thank the Polish judges. I would like to thank all those who, under the courts in the smallest towns, defended justice against the greed of this authority, defended justice against those whose mentality does not allow recognition of the independence of the third power. And I can promise one thing: all that you have done will be settled and the guilty will be punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u275	Yes. [[Funny, huh? That's funny.]] Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Well, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ruins and ruins - so much remains after the independence of the National Judicial Council following the attack by PiS politicians over the last year. The United Nations reports, reports from the Venice Commission are alerting this to the attention of the European Network of Judicial Councils, threatening the KRS, politicised by the PiS, to be excluded from its ranks. Today's facts are that PiS has turned the council into a party outbuilding. There are judges elected by politicians who don't even know who reported because people who signed their letters of support were so ashamed of it that we still don't know their names. High Izbo! The vast majority of the report on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017 describes such a legislative raid of the current government on the independence of the board. Meanwhile, the party nominate, elected by politicians, Mr Drajewicz, who presented this report at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, did not even mention it. Why? Or just because he's taken the chair on the council by destroying the independence of the KRS? Or is it because thanks to the power he owes his promotion to the vice-president of the District Court in Warsaw, while earlier, before politicising the National Council of Courts, he tried 20 times for promotions and failed to obtain such a promotion to a higher court? You will not be able to ignore the fact that the PiS politicians have destroyed the independence of the National Judicial Council or the fact that they are destroying the independent Supreme Court. Even if you keep this strictly silent, we will remind you of it carefully each time, and we will finally make a very meticulous account of all the guilty. [[3%]] The camp of domestic change is always hungry for power, positions, money, but unfortunately, your greed will soon begin to be paid by ordinary citizens. Unfortunately, each of us, Poles, will lose on this policy of the PiS, because it is because of PiS politicians who destroyed the independence of the KRS that threatens our country to lose 1/4 of the money that comes from EU funds. Today it is difficult to estimate exactly how many thousands of Poles will lose their jobs, how many thousands of Polish companies will lose their contracts, how many people will fall into poverty. But it doesn't care about the cash change. The whole PiS feeds on fat prizes, preys on companies of the State Treasury. Maybe that's why, when I warned at one of the committee meetings that for the destruction of the independence of the justice system by the PiS, specific money could be lost by ordinary Poles, one of the politicians of the ruling party disrespectfully said: we will survive. That's it. People of domestic change will survive in their luxuries, in raccoon furs, and will survive in government limousines, thanks to their nude prizes. [[In the Jacuzzi.]] But it is on ordinary Poles that you push the need to pay this salty bill for your political irresponsibleness. High Izbo! Let us remind you of some basic data and figures, which probably, contrary to the wishes of the designers, clearly illustrate what PiS has done with the KRS and the Polish judiciary. In 2017, of the 383 candidates, the KRS presented to the President an application for appointment to serve as a judge in the general courts and the Supreme Court, for judicial positions and asessors' positions in administrative courts in a total of 99 persons. This means a decrease in the number of proceedings, free judicial positions and participants in proceedings. Why is this happening? This is because the Minister of Justice actually stopped issuing any notice of recruitment for vacant judicial positions. The reason for these omissions from the Minister of Justice should therefore be asked. Were the subsequent announcements to take place only now, after the politicalisation of the KRS? The consequences are that all the changes made by the camp in the country not only destroy the independence of the justice system, but also undermine its efficiency. The approximate number of judges who have not ruled as a result of the omissions of the Minister of Justice at a peak moment is around 880 judges. Due to the domestic change, 1/10 judges were missing in Poland. That means paralysis and gigantic delays in handling cases. It is the fault of PiS that these arrears in Polish courts are growing today at an alarming rate. It loses citizens, it loses companies. Let us just remind you that a similar number to this missing number of judges is ruled in the Poznań appeal. There's 820 of them. This is one of the biggest appeals in Poland. In 2016 alone, more than 1 million cases were identified in this appeal. Mr. Ziobro! By blocking the recruitment of judges, you left over 1 million citizens and companies just on the ice. And if that's not enough, the Ministry of Justice doesn't provide official staff or anything that serves the proper functioning of the courts. Let's look at the next very specific figures that show the scale of the damage that was caused by the actions of PiS politicians. The average length of court proceedings of the selected categories of cases of first instance indicates that the effect of two years of PiS policy is to extend proceedings compared to the duration of proceedings in previous years. Thus, the average duration of court proceedings in the first instance in 2013 was 3.8 months, whereas in the first half of 2017, almost twice as much as in the first half of 2017 as more than 5 months. And this tendency to extend started when? In 2015, when you took over. It undoubtedly translates... We also have a reduction in the stability of case law. And these are the concrete effects of all the changes of the PiS-owskie which politicize Polish courts. Already now we can observe the real effects of these actions, which do not reform the Polish judiciary in any way, do not improve it, but are deformising and politicising the justice system with successive laws. Moreover, the subsequent amendments to these laws, which are adopted with such a lying narrative about meeting the demands of the international institutions, only further deepen this earlier rake of the judicial authority by the current cash change. The last few months are the time of an open attack by PiS politicians on the independence of the National Judicial Council. The Executive Board of the European Judicial Councils Network in its opinion on the Law stated that the provisions contained in these laws could harm the independence of the judiciary in Poland. In particular, the Council considered that the shortening of the term of office of the judges of the members of the National Courts of Justice jeopardises the continuity of the functioning of that body and justified the suspicion that the majority of the government would take control of the Council. In addition, the exclusion of judges from the right to elect their representatives to the National Judicial Council and the granting of the exclusive right to elect judges to the National Judicial Council violates the standards of the democratic rule of law, and today, precisely in connection with these violations, the politicalised National Judicial Council is threatened by the exclusion from the ranks of the European Judicial Councils Network. Ladies and gentlemen! This report of the KRS, and in particular the part which describes the legislative raid of the PiS carpet for the independence of the council, will forever be a specific act of accusation against the camp of the national change. Democratic Poland will never forgive you for this. The Poles will never forgive you for this. This report, however, is also a description of the heroic struggle of Polish judges to maintain the independence of Polish courts. It is also a moment in which we should thank all the judges who in recent months have proved that the power of the Polish justice system and its further independence depend precisely on people like them, who sent signals daily from many places about the fact that the fight for an independent justice system continues. I would also like to thank those judges who continue to send signals throughout Poland regarding the fact that they will not give in to the politicisation of the justice system served by the PiS, that they will not give in to pressure. I am aware that this is the overwhelming majority of judges in Poland. At least a modest number of 18 candidates who applied to the National Court Register show that. This is demonstrated by numerous resolutions of general assemblies issued by court assemblies throughout Poland. I would very much like to thank all independent judges here. Today, citizens are saying no to this waltz rolling by the PiS after Polish democracy and independent judiciary, and we today, discussing this report on the attack on the KRS, also speak out loudly for the progressive politicisation of the judiciary by the current government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u277	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As every year, the chairman of the National Council of the Courts presented information to the Sejm and the Senate about the activities of the National Council of Courts for the last closed year, but this custom seems to have passed into history. The meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, its scandalous course, the kind of slandering of the composition of the previous National Judicial Council, the epithets that were at the address of those wishing to speak to Members, make this custom a past one. The meetings of this committee led by President Stanisław Piotrowicz were as usual chaotic, turbulent and scandalous. The report for 2017 was prepared by the previous National Judicial Council, although in total the question arises as to whether it is entitled to use the previous wording - after all, in accordance with Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The 3rd Constitution term of the elected members of the KRS, not the entire council, lasts a full 4 years. Although the Constitutional Tribunal in its only 5-member composition on 20 June 2017 ruled otherwise, we know that the current Constitutional Court is difficult to recognise as functioning on the basis of the principles set out in the Constitution. During the committee meeting, Judge Drajewicz admitted that the previous National Judicial Council - remark - was shaped in a manner which differed from the proportion expressed by the number of judges of different types and levels of court. The question arises: How, then, was the representativeness of the current National Judicial Council shaped after the amendment of the KRS Act of the end of 2017? Attention, there is not a single representative of the Supreme Court and not a single representative of military courts of all levels on the 15 judges of the National Judicial Council. Of the general courts there is no representative of any court of appeal, and of all administrative courts there is no judge from the Supreme Administrative Court. What representativeness, High Izbo, can you speak of in this case? The 15 judges of the Council 14 are representatives of the general courts, of which only one is from the district court, and the 13 are judges of the regional courts. The administrative judiciary shall be represented by one judge of the provincial administrative court. On this occasion, it is impossible not to refer to the speech of the vice-president of the National Judicial Council, who, according to his own opinion, is an idealist. Apart from the fact that the judge has so far failed to apply 20 times for a judge's promotion, he has still negatively assessed the previous composition of the council in the context of the application of substantive conditions in the cast of vacant judicial positions. Vice-President of the current National Court Council is, as far as we know, Vice-President of the District Court in Warsaw, while being only a judge of the regional court. How can someone who has never been a district court judge in a lower court of law be at the same time someone who runs such an institution? As far as I know, there are so many more idealists in this council. The best example is Judge Dagmara Pawełczyk-Woicka, who is also, as judge of the district court, not even the vice president and the chairman of the district court. [[We're talking about 2017. Your judge wasn't here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u279	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u280	I must say, Madam, referring to the history of the 19th century, that in the Kingdom of Poland, under the Russian partition, there were much higher standards. At that time, judges of higher courts were most likely to become Presidents of courts than the one they were supposed to direct. Strangely, the amendment to the Act on the National Court Register repeals the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4). It provides that the term of office of the elected member of the Board shall expire before the end of his term of office if a judge is appointed to another judicial position, with the exception of the appointment of a regional court judge to serve as a district court judge, a military garrison court judge to serve as a military judge to the district court or a regional administrative court judge to serve as an NSA judge. As I understand it, the normal promotion of the current members of the council does not predict, immediately to the highest instance. Then maybe the court of appeal or the Supreme Court will also represent someone. Is this the future of this institution? Fear to think about how staff policy in the justice system will evolve over the next few years, because the main function of the council is creation function. 14 years ago, the Polish National Judicial Council was one of the founders of the European Judicial Council Network. This elite group now includes 24 councils from 20 countries. A few days ago we witnessed reports about the adoption of the Polish delegation at the annual meeting of the network of councils. The official declaration of the Lisbon network was adopted on 1 June 2018 and in it such words: presence at the general assembly of representatives of the Polish National Courts does not mean that the network recognises that its status within our association will be maintained when the Management Board completes its review of the position on this matter. In December 2017, the authorities of the European Judicial Council Network explicitly stated that the revised law on the National Courts of Justice does not fall within the standards of the Network and does not guarantee the proper functioning of a democratic system based on the rule of law. Soon we will host representatives of this organization in Poland, in which we are still part. This is no longer just a matter of a mere Irish judge, Madam Member. That is the term you recommended during the committee meeting to use... [[So what? Don't be so sensitive.]] ...as usual with an appealing and touching message to Members and Poles. Mr Piotrowicz forgot that the interest of various European bodies in the rule of law in Poland began with the invitation of the Venice Commission, not by the opposition, but by the previous foreign minister Mr Witold Waszczykowski. All this in addition will be reflected in the future EU budget covering the years 2021 to 2027. After nearly 30 years of existence of the KRS, contrary to the systemic interpretation, functional interpretation in Article. 187 of the Constitution, the current parliamentary majority stated that politicians could choose the entire composition of the National Judicial Council. It was not enough for the legislative and executive authorities to have their own representatives in this constitutional body. The unbridled lust for power proved to be stronger than constitutional and ordinary decency. I hope that although the rota of the jury's oath and the good practices of the former members of the council will be close to the hearts of the judges currently sitting on this board and will become a clue to acting in accordance with law and conscience. To conclude my speech, I would like to thank the previous National Judicial Council, headed by President Dariusz Zawistowski, on behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, against the words of Mrs Pawłowicz delivered today from this speaker, for sticking to her firm stand to defend the principles of the rule of law, defending the principles of the Constitution. On this occasion, I would like to thank the judge's community for its determination and relentlessness, and, contrary to what the representatives of the current authority also say, also for its willingness to change this environment, its openness to change those areas that may not be demanding or demanding in the past. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u281	There are four questions, excuse me, five Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to pay my utmost respect to the former National Judicial Council for its upholding the independence of the judiciary, its upholding independent courts. Often such a slogan appears on demonstrations in Poland: power will pass, shame will remain. It was mainly directed towards politicians, to politicians of this side, but now I have to look that way, at the judges who entered the alliance with politics, entered into an alliance with politicians. Indeed, in Poland there is a situation that more and more people have problems looking in the mirror. These are TVPiS presenters, but also more and more people in the National Judicial Council - 15 nominations of PiS and Kukiz clubs15. But we need to be clear about this and say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Every second.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u283	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the rapporteur. It is likely that next year you will also report on the activities of the KRS for 2018. I have a question: will you include in your next report a list of those who supported your candidacy for the National Courts Council? I'm very curious about that. She spoke here about mysterious, secret, etc., so you have been chosen in a very secret way, because I do not know if this is a list of disgraces, that is, a list of people who have signed up for your nomination. And I have a suggestion that perhaps then you would have lied to the information that your brother's subordinates had signed your candidacy, who had been appointed judge of the Katowice court by Zbigniew Ziobra. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u285	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The report we are considering today is the report of the last constitutionally elected National Judicial Council. It is a report that concludes the achievements of the "Solidarity" in terms of the independence of the judiciary, which we have been building in Poland since 1990. The majority of this report are opinions in which the National Judicial Council, the latter constitutionally elected, defends the independence of the courts, the independence of the Supreme Court, the universal courts, the National Judicial Council itself. This document also shows that we have fallen out of the standards of European civilization when it comes to the judiciary and its independence. Opinions of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the European Commission, international judicial organisations - all negative for all the changes that took place last year. It is appropriate to thank Mr Zawistowski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Zurk and the entire National Judicial Council... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] ...that they fought to the end...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u287	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u288	Mr. Marshal! I look at those young people who represent the National Judicial Council here, who have simply embezzled the basic principles, embezzled the constitution consciously, know that they are in a game that is extra-constitutional. I don't blame you, Mr. Marshal, who at least sits next to the president and has the honor of selling himself out. But you gentlemen, when you were only a few years old, someone taught you that law, taught you what the constitution is. Think about it. Maybe there's still time for you to decide... As Mr Szczerba said, look in the mirror not only now, because you are now, you have cataracts, but also in two years - then in this mirror You will see yourselves as those who have disgraced the constitution. So it's time to think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u289	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To control the D.A.'s office, that's not enough. To take over the Seym and the Senate so it can only happen as power wants, that's not enough. Destroy the Constitutional Tribunal so as not to question the actions of the Sejm, the Senate or any other public institution, that is not enough. You should have jumped the Supreme Court and common courts. And in a moment, gentlemen of the jury - it won't be that long - you will eat your own tongues of shame. You took part in what they did with the PiS. You're gonna pay for this, too. I ask you to disclose the names of those who supported you. The bill says who it might be. Names, please. It's not here: it's public, it doesn't matter. Everything's public. There's no secret because of the confidential. Names, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u291	Thank you very much. The President of the National Judicial Council will now speak. Would you like to speak? You're welcome. Mr. Leszek Mazur.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From these speeches for asking questions, I finally managed to write down one question, namely whether, by providing information on the activities of the KRS for 2018, I would be able to disclose a list of those who supported the members elected to the KRS. It's hard for me to tell you what's gonna happen next year, and if... [[Shame.]] On the other hand, I will refer to whether I can reveal these names. This will depend on whether the legal situation will change and the laws that will allow it to change. [[Voice from the room: Absolutely not.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] I'm just remembering that... [[How do you speak? Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u293	And how do you speak? Why are you talking to me? Did somebody give you the floor? Don't bother the judge. [[...speaks very rudely to the Member...]] No, I only heard the word quietly. That's not a bad word at all. [[It's not? I'm the one who's gonna be calling you "quiet" right now.]] And that's gonna be a naughty word, 'cause you're talking to a marshal. [[Game in the O.R.]] But you're disturbing me right now. I'm calling you back to order for the first time. [[Quiet! That's nice!]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] You, too. You're welcome, Judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u294	Thank you. I would like to remind you that at the last meeting of the National Judicial Council, a draft legislative act on the disclosure of these letters of support was considered. The Council has taken a stand. This position is negative, and ultimately the Sejm will decide it. Therefore, if the relevant legal act is voted by the Sejm, we, bound by the law in force, will comply with it. In the current state of law, however, there is no reason to disclose these letters and it is difficult to expect the national council to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u295	No one has given you the floor, Madam, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u296	...behaved against the legal order in force. [[The voice from the hall: But it is not true!]] [[A voice from the hall: You're in this mess yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u297	Judge, don't worry and continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u298	On the other hand, as regards the incentive expressed here by Mr Lassota for reflection, I note that indeed... I mean, I'm denying it. Although I am optimistic about the young, I note that I am 57 years old. There may not really be that much time for this reflection, but I assure you that this reflection accompanies me all the time, and after this encouragement I will devote even more time. [[Voice from the room: We are waiting for your resignation.]] Do these answers satisfy you or... [[Voice from the room: No, absolutely not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u299	Mr President, don't get into a discussion with Members who behave like an elegant person.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u300	I understand. I have nothing more to say about this. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Krystyna Pavłowicz, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u302	Thank you very much. With regard to individual speeches, first of all, I would like to say this: Mr Budka was obviously not at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights yesterday, he has no idea, he is giving an unauthorized oration just so that - I will use such a term - I will put the judge down and let go of his resentment and regret that these last elections have been lost. It's just so rare... Although he is a member of the National Judicial Council, neither in his previous term of office, with his previous composition, nor now he is not taking part at all. So that it's all empty attacks, behind which there are no arguments beyond the media oration, which maybe will broadcast it somewhere. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Another thing is that the representative of the Platform simply shows that he does not accept the current composition and criticises the National Judicial Council. You do not accept total democracy and 2015 election results. You do not accept Poles and their choices. These attacks, which you've just shown, first of all, are unsubstantiated because they don't relate to information... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You are lying.]] ...and the information of the National Judicial Council for 2017 was the subject of this meeting. You only focus on personal attacks, you continue them instead of making arguments. I would also like to say here that you are... I personally apologize to the judges for this insulting approach to you: the nominators, the abusive identification of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as understudys and various... In fact, they're just taking it out on the use of insulting words, and the whole couple are going into this kind of unsubstantiated talk that has nothing to do with respect for democracy. This is, of course, a blind street, because we will never meet in a discussion if you reject what the Poles have chosen and which works on the basis of the will of Poles. Another lady, from Modern - also all hysterical insinuations, discourses, scaring and telling the judge that she's a nominator. You should apologize in a moment. This is a member of the National Judicial Council, a constitutional body. [[He's no longer a constitutional authority. You took care of it.]] And you have 2%. Support, no one's behind you. Nobody's behind you, no Poles. Please do not invoke any Poles. You won't be in the Seym at all in the next term. I would also like to say that not only did the National Judicial Council work here, but you also held it back by the President, which is to say that there is the participation of the President who, for his part, assessed the nominations presented by the then National Judicial Council. Because the country on the national council, especially in the last year, 2017 has been very quick to push the candidacy that the President had to reject. We can only guess why. They were simply people who did not deserve to sit on the council, who were characterized by strong political commitment in the fight against the legal authorities of Poland. Modern has 2% support and saying that Poles... It is better just to prepare for a solid job in some housing or gardening cooperative. As far as Mr Paszik is concerned, you are, of course, again telling and repeating after Mrs Gasiuk, which only uses such - I apologize for the comparison - of the Esbek methods: following someone's resume and telling them who has applied for a post many times. I would like to say that none of you are a member of the National Judicial Council. You have no idea what the procedure for selecting candidates for the President is like. 20, 30 times you can apply and if there are 300 candidates for 2 places, you can apply multiple times. [[But no competence.]] This is extremely difficult to compare. You have no idea. Criticizing Judge Furmanik for what, exactly? The subject is information for 2017, Judge Furmanik has only recently been a member of the current National Judicial Council. These hooligans, I would say, gangster methods of tracking, terrorizing, stigmatizing judges who are on the current national council, deserve even, I would say, legal protection from the prosecutor's office, because the state is setting up people who are unoriented, such a street bulge from various conventions, which are lying on the street, some CODE-men, some kind of pack of driving, breaking up meetings to attack judges. And I hope that Mr. District Attorney or someone else will finally be interested in your craving for a legitimate organ of state. The damage you're doing... You didn't notice it because you have no idea, you don't know it - you're not a member of the National Judicial Council or perhaps even the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. He repeats clichés, stings, just like the whole thing. You completely reject the Polish state, the Polish nation and its will. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the questions he raised here, for example. Mr Szczerba, who insults... [[Have you ever heard of yourself?]] Actually, he's not... any other speeches he's made, material, he hasn't been reported here in the Sejm, so it's hard to relate here. Mr Meysztowicz similarly - personal attacks. As far as the disclosure of the names of those supporting candidates to the National Judicial Council is concerned, this was indeed the subject of discussion at the National Judicial Council meeting, but we have come to the conclusion that the purpose of this request is not any principle of transparency... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Me with corrections.]] Please don't disturb me. [[Quiet!]] ...to exercise these rights, only the purpose of those who demand disclosure of the names of those who support the candidates is simply to use it for harassment, intimidation, attack, as was done with Judge Furmanik, who has agreed, is a member of the National Judicial Council... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: My name has been mentioned.]] ...then today, on the blocks, there are banners on the house terrorizing her, intimidating her family, calling on others to boycott her, to bully her, and to ask her to leave the National Court Council. I hope that such a law for gangsters, dishonest, hooligan and intimidating targets will never be issued and none of you will ever have that right again. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: With correction.]] You'll get revenge under different circumstances. It's not for the judges. [[Mr. Marshal!]] Mr Święcicki - you said such a thing that although I like you somehow, it cannot be overlooked. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u303	You're interfering with the proceedings. Please leave this place and sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u304	You say that the judiciary, the judges associated with the KRS, is a continuation of the solidarity. Mr President, don't tell me, because there are still people sitting there who have condemned independence activists, solidarity, it is difficult to remove them. They give themselves... You've made a mistake. Don't be mad. You're kind, but you have no idea who's sitting there. I hope you can read it sometime. Similarly, Mr Lassota - only insults the President, zero arguments. Mrs Radziszewska, who would seem to know how to apply a plaster and some wound with oxidized water - you would also be expected to pour some level. Your statement also comes down to insulting, attacking. In fact, your statements represent only one great stream of hatred for judges. I'm very sorry for the rudeness you're experiencing here, on this side. [[But me?]] Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u305	The discussion is closed. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] According to Art. 4th Act on the National Judicial Council on information shall not be put to a vote. I state that the Sejm took note of information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2017. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, you have not understood my statement.]] [[Next time, Mrs Pavłowicz, if you start screaming quietly, think about it. You should speak to people in Parliament. Mr. Marshal...]] I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 36 hours 19 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. The Bureau of the Sejm submitted a proposal for changes in the membership of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis Amber Gold Group members, print No 2611. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act drawn up: in Marrakesh on 18 October 2002, in Antalya on 24 November 2006 and in Guadalajara on 22 October 2010 documents of amendments to the Constitution and Convention of the International Telecommunications Union, drawn up in Geneva on 22 December 1992. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print 2580. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: - Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, progress in the process of their modernisation, as well as personnel policy carried out in State Treasury-owned arms companies, in particular the Polish Armed Forces Group SA, in the context of the cancellation of the entire company's management on 8 February 2018, notified by the Poselski Club Modernznoszna, - Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the appointment and methods of financing of the Polish National Foundation by companies with the participation of the State Treasury, as well as the activities of the Polish National Foundation, in particular concerning the Polish-Israeli diplomatic crisis, notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, - Information from the Minister of Justice on the investigative activities undertaken by the National Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with police intervention with the use of the so-called. tasers, the death of Igor Stachowiak and the actions of law enforcement in this case, reported by the Modern Posel Club. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We are voting on the proposal for information on arms companies. Who of your Members is in favour of the request to supplement the agenda with a point: Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, progress in the process of their modernisation, as well as personnel policy carried out in State Treasury-owned arms companies, in particular the Polish Armed Forces Group SA, in the context of the cancellation of the entire board of directors on 8 February 2018, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 191 voted against - 219, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning information about the Polish National Foundation. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 191 voted against - 221, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a motion for information on the death of Igor Stachowiak. Who among you is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 171 votes against - 240, 5 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2553-A. I ask Mr Dariusz Kubiak to present this report. Mr Kubiak. Are you Mr Kubiak? [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] Where is he? [[He's coming.]] You are asked to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you. As regards the report on the government project, ladies and gentlemen, the Act is primarily a means of ensuring full compliance of the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources with the provisions on state aid, to which the Polish party has committed itself to the European Commission in the notification procedure. It is a Polish system to support the development of RES and exemptions for energy-intensive users. During the public consultation, changes were developed in response to social expectations and expectations of entrepreneurs. A report has been presented and during this... [[Applause]] And I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u307	Let me remind you, it's 2553. The proposals of minorities presented by the committee and the amendments will be voted first. Minority proposals 1 and 2 and amendments 1 to 12 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. In Amendment 1. to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 7a. Amendment 11 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for these amendments to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 11, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 256 against 172 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 2. to Article. 2 applicants propose not to add point 19a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. Just one minute? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u308	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask a question containing a request to you from Law and Justice, because I know, statistically, that there are a lot of people there who know tax law, investment law and legal copies so that they don't tell what they don't know about it. What's that? In balance sheet and tax law, it means the cost of the gradual consumption of fixed assets and intangible assets. It is a cost that does not involve cash flow. It's depreciation. You are introducing this amendment so that the broken, depreciated and old technological windmills can receive back support at the expense of modern, high-performance windmills. I hope those who know this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] convince colleagues to support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u309	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 172 votes against and 253 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 3. to Article. 4 applicants propose not to delete paragraph. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 3, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 170 voted against - 217, 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4, the following article is added: 70a applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1 and 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u310	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The aim of this amendment is to ensure that the regulation we are talking about applies to all types of RES technologies, not just biogas and hydro-energy, so as to free and allow investments in all areas of RES technology, not just selectively, i.e. biogas and hydro-energy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u311	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 4, please carry your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 169 voted against - 255, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5. to the inserted article. 70a paragraph. The applicant shall propose to delete points 2 and 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u312	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Amendment 5, as you rightly pointed out, relates to Amendment 4. I would like to stress that giving the possibility or creating the possibility to sell biogas from the treatment plant and landfills leads directly to unjustified profits. Let me remind you that the task of self-governments is to conduct waste management and waste water collection. Thus, when this amendment is introduced, waste water treatment plants can obtain unjustified benefits because they can buy market electricity for their own use and all that they will obtain from waste gas will sell with public support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I move to accept this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u313	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 254, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to the added Article. 70a paragraph. 4 applicants propose to add at the end of the sentence the words "excluding manufacturers in the installations referred to in Article." 70f paragraph. 2. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have tabled a total of six amendments, together with Mr Klaviter and Mr Gaine, which have become minority proposals. These minority proposals go in the direction in which this law is going in its core framework. Except for one thing, I'm going to talk about him when I vote on the whole bill, but that's another thing. The Ministry's declaration at the beginning of the procedure was that minority proposals improving this bill... In this case, the aim is for entrepreneurs to benefit simply from the FIP and FIT tariff system. These amendments, these minority proposals, improve what you have assumed. And now, at the beginning of the process, the Ministry said that no, the bill is as it is, we will not change it, we will not correct it, and then there have been a number of amendments agreed by the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Treasury. I appeal once again: support these minority proposals, because they really improve the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u315	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 184 voted against - 224, with 26 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In Amendment 6, the following article is added: 70c applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 6, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 256 against - 171, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7. to Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to maintain the wording of the statement so far. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 174 voted against - 230, with 22 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 72a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 152 voted against - 225, 52 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In Amendment 8. to Article. 74 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With the history of this regulation in the PiS edition, it's a little bit like with this anecdote about rabbi and goat - we're a little bit improved, but we're not yet at the stage of the removal of goats. Although it has been given up, and it is good, from such a vague and completely meaningless concept of local biomass obtained within a 300 km radius, yet not all regulations in the field of even this biomass are precise. In this amendment, we propose that the vague provision concerning the thermal transformation of waste, which could lead to the use of non-energy wood and full-value grain, be abandoned. Please support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u317	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 191 votes against - 233, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 9. to Article. Article 75 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose to add points 3 and 4 after point 2 and to mark the previous point 3 Amendment 10 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 260, against 169, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 12. to Article. 168 applicants propose a different wording of point 11a added. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 260 votes against - 169 and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 13 and 14 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Wind Power Plant Investment Act. In Amendment 13. to Article. 12 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 224, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 14 to Article. 13 in the added mouth. 3b The applicants propose that the effects of wind power on the environment replace the power of installed electricity or the influence of wind power on the environment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Imagine this: we have a working windmill, which has a 60-metre tower. What does the government want to do now? If on the same tower the same shovels are replaced by a higher class generator which produces less noise with the same dimensions, it has more power, then the investor must be granted a new building permit. Isn't that a paradox? Is this opening up to new solutions? I mean, logic says it shouldn't be like this. I take it, ladies and gentlemen, that you may come to your senses and be against this amendment. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u319	Does the minister want to... [[Voice from the room: You should have done it.]] The Commission is asking for this amendment, and you are asking for rejection? I see. Nobody wants to speak? The Minister doesn't want to. Good. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendment 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 253 votes against - 178, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 4 the draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 9. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 152 voted against - 222, with 53 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 6 of the draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 give a different wording to point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 160, against 225, with 50 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. The draft law is proposed by the applicant, inter alia, to make provision in paragraph 8. 1 give a different wording to point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 5th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 159, against 227, with 52 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the draft law propose to add a sentence. But what's the sentence? It's just a question of a sixth minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 6th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The vote was 160, against 225, with 50 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The whole bill. There are questions. The question is put by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is a kind of rescue wheel with respect to what has been corrupted in the last 3 years. Two years ago, the Minister claimed that we have overproduction of renewable energy, today there is a huge threat that we will not implement the 15% plan. which we must implement by 2020. These good solutions which have been destroyed. We're back to that today. An example is fixed tariffs. We're going back to the fixed tariffs. You didn't listen to the opposition, and there are problems today. Today the minister appeals: let's focus, let's concentrate to do what we have to do. I have a question. Polish People's Party predicted this situation, we proposed to relieve small installations with a capacity of up to 50 kW, reducing their VAT from 23 to 7%. Will the government support such solutions? This would be a huge support for those who want to invest in renewable energy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I think it would contribute to the fact that we wouldn't be paying those penalties that threaten us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u321	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u322	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no Prime Minister, but I hope that this general vote on this bill will reach him. Let us remember that in the third year of the PiS government we already have the fourth amendment of the RES Act. You have received a law which removed from the final recipients a burden of about PLN 12 billion. You said you'd introduce pro-consumer solutions. And what does it turn out to be? In the third year of your actions, you realized to a small extent that you had to get off this road. I would like to ask the Prime Minister for the courage to say the full truth: We were wrong. We chose the wrong way. We're going to go on a road we're going to have -- together -- and we're going to be an entity in the energy market, and we're going to consider the customer, not the customer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy monopoly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u323	Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a very small step in the right direction, but it's too small. This still does not solve the problem that has been introduced by the state-voted law, i.e. the so-called law. 10H principle, which almost reduced investment in wind energy in general. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister whether from this place he will promise, swear, declare that Poland, on the basis of these laws which we now have, will carry out its obligation to achieve 15% share of green energy by 2020 Is the Ministry planning further, better changes to the bill? Because they are simply necessary and necessary for this green energy in Poland to be produced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u325	Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will be pleased to answer the question of Mrs Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the first words, I would like to thank everyone for their really very creative work in the subcommittee and for the smooth process of this law. Why couldn't the 2015 Act - I reply to Mr Czerwiński - enter into force? It was not notified, hence we had to construct other provisions that we are now submitting, because of the opposition of the European Commission. Over a year, actually 1.5 years there has been a very broad consultation of the environments that are on different sides of the negotiating table, and that is why we have some proposals. And as for achieving some of the values imposed on us or the suggested values by 2022, that's why we started auctions and for this we did so quickly - and thank you - so that we can meet our commitments. And among others. The bill is directed at it. And I also said in the subcommittee and in the committee that we have new issues to settle, and right after the auction has been passed, we sit down for an amendment, which we would very much like to see to it by the end of the year, in order to resolve further implementation issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[A voice from the courtroom: Grace!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u327	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 2553, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 430 against - 2, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the National referendum law. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft to the committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Questions are raised by Members. Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to the Member of the applicant's representative. This law is excellent and it solves certain problems, and I would like the Member's representative to explain and answer the question: Is it true that if this law is adopted, it will not be possible to hold a referendum and local elections at one time? Secondly, is it true that thanks to this solution, that there will be no local elections and a referendum at one time, these local elections, which are our celebration of local democracy, the celebration of small homelands, will not be dominated by other issues related to the referendum? And thirdly, is it true that if the referendum and the local elections were held at one time, the costs of conducting, even because of the need to equip the electoral premises with additional ballot boxes, would increase by tens of millions of PLN? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You still have 40 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u329	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, have a question for the Members of the applicant: Why do they want the Polish budget as much as they want the money of their own party? There is no reason for us to pay an additional PLN 100 million just because the state does not like referendums or wants to do them at a different time. I wanted to tell you that direct democracy, referendums are the best form of governance and we should do these referendums like Switzerland every year and ask citizens what they want. At the same time, referendums should be mandatory, as is the case in normal countries. I would like to inform you that, from January, it is our motion, the proposal of Kukiz,15, the draft law on the local referendum, which abolishes the electoral threshold, so that no more president of the city can call for elections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u331	Thank you. Mr Liroy-March, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Why don't we take care of referendums as really as we should? This is one of the highest forms when it comes to the exercise of authority by a citizen. So here's the question: why don't we do the lifting of the turnout threshold, as Kukiz calls15? Why don't we make it a mandatory referendum? And most importantly, why are you so afraid of e-participation? Why are you afraid that people should express themselves - especially young people, the new generation - in the way they want, or electronically? Stop being afraid of it, because at the moment, technology is allowing it, and it's safe enough. So my question is: Why are we really avoiding the topic of referendum, and why are we really lying to all the citizens in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u333	Thank you. That's all the MPs? Questions have been asked by the Member of the applicant's representative. I ask Mark Owl to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is in no way against referendums. [[There it is. It's too low a turnout.]] We're all in favour of organizing referendums. I will tell you even more: we are in favour of asking citizens and respecting the will expressed during the referendum. However, there is one very important element: we do not want national referendums to be organised on the day of the local elections - only and exclusively. [[You don't want them at all. Not at all.]] And now I'm going to explain why. This is because the 2003 National referendum law explicitly states in Article. 90, under which conditions a national referendum is organised together with the elections, and there all elections were mentioned - there were mentioned parliamentary elections, elections to the European Parliament, there also the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland were mentioned. Not a word has been said about the local elections. In my opinion, the fact that it was not mentioned was the result of a thoughtful thought that during the local elections it should not cover matters and discussions about extremely important matters of local Poland, Poland with national themes, often ideological topics which have nothing to do with local elections, so as not to cover up the focus of people during these 3, 4 weeks to discuss the development and future of their small homelands, to talk about which issues in the commune, in the county or in the voivodship are the most important. That's why I have to tell you that yesterday, when I saw the draft law of the Codification Commission amending the electoral code, print 2610, I was shocked. Because what do the PiS Members write in this bill? They state that local referendums must not be held on the day of the local elections. This is ridiculous. [[Applause]] Local referendums should be held as much as possible on the day of the local elections, because this is the choice, this is the discussion, and the PiS Members forbid it yesterday. What else is not allowed with the local elections? What did the PiS Members propose? They offered not to make choices to the district council. It's forbidden, too. So what? The neighborhood is a separate creation? Isn't it a matter of discussing what's going on in the local government? This is what we should focus on, but you do not care about it, because you want to distract Poles from what is important for local Poland, and concentrate them on your venom, which here you are still sowing. Ladies and gentlemen! Elections are a celebration of democracy, referendums are the same, but each should be respected, should not be covered by one another. That's why it's our proposal. And I must tell you, this project probably wouldn't have been, because no one has had such an absurd idea since 2003 to hold a national referendum together with local elections. Last year President Andrzej Duda, who wanted this year - and he continues to say that he wants to hold a constitutional referendum with the local elections. Seriously, this isn't a discussion time. The time to discuss local matters should not be taken over by you for what is happening here. Another issue that has also been raised. And to be honest, when I heard Mr Sachaika, I was surprised. Well, how can there be such great ignorance about cost issues? [[Applause]] You were talking about some 100 million zlotys. After all, the State Election Commission has taken a very clear view on this matter. She didn't mean to say that she wasn't allowed to do it on the same day, but she said it was something completely different. National referendums can take place in one day or two days, local government elections - only one day. They can take place in completely different hours, they must be carried out at other locations, they must have different electoral records. After all, in a national referendum Poles living abroad can vote, and in the case of local elections there is a question only those who reside in the community. [[Wrong committee.]] Here's another thing. They must be separate committees, not the same. [[Two.]] In the case of local elections, your change will result in two committees counting votes, one in the day, two in the night. And in the case of a national referendum, one committee will count the votes on Saturday, Sunday, and it is not known until when. If you think that the combination of these elements will help to make Poles more interested and focus them on how our small homelands will develop, then you are wrong. Today Poles are very happy to take advantage of their vote when they choose the governor, the mayor, the president. They are very happy to use their voice when they choose a councilman, especially in one-mandate districts. There's no vote at all. There's no vote out there. Where are the votes that don't matter? That's what they are. In the Seym election, when it's more anonymous. People aren't interested in giving their vote. We should focus on getting to the public, talking about what these elections are about to increase interest in these elections. If you accept our proposal, of course it will be possible, but if you cover the referendum with a dozen or so questions, it will be even more confusing and it will really be nothing. Therefore, I would ask you not to reject this project, because nobody will really understand why you are banning local referendums on the day of the local elections, why you are prohibiting the organisation of elections to district councils, and you are proposing a national referendum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u335	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 1609 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 261 votes against, 169 votes against, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion denied... Sorry, the Sejm accepted, most were in favour. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2541-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 7 June 2018, the Health Commission considered four amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice at the second reading of the Government draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act and certain other laws, prints Nos 2386 and 2541. Three amendments are technical in nature. One technical amendment concerned the issue of prescriptions. All received without a vote of objection. On behalf of the Health Committee, I ask the High Sejm to adopt a bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u337	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's 2541. In an additional report, the committee sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the first amendment, applicants propose to add point 3 in reference No 1 to the title of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 312 voted against - 7, 111 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 1 of the draft law add point 26a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 2nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 302 and no one voted against, 128 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 1a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 303 votes against, 127 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 1b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 302 against - 1, 123 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u338	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 17 years ago, in 2001, the pharmaceutical law of which art. 127 as a result of unknown actions, four words came up, which changed the meaning of this law dramatically. Since that date, illegal drug exports began in Poland. This practice continues until today. As this bill is an opportunity to end this pathological phenomenon, to stop this criminal activity, I have two questions for the government. On what scale are you assessing illegal export of drugs from Poland during these 17 years? Second question: Are we able to fully secure the interests of Polish patients and eliminate the drug mafia, which has been exporting medicines from Poland for so many years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u339	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're gonna hold off on this bill because proceding it was a weird procedure. We are discussing an extremely substantive topic, among others. about the inclusion of refunded medicines in the market - about PLN 11 billion - and during the proceedings of this law due to the closed Sejm and the ban on the introduction of visitors we had no possibility to ask any expert. No expert, professor or any of the people who, in fact, would be able to assess the content of the pharmaceutical law project has been admitted to the committee or to the Sejm at all. As a result of this bizarre proceeding over this law, the inability to ask questions, the Civic Platform club will refrain, even though we are in favour of the solutions proposed in this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u341	Thank you. Two questions have been raised. The representative of the government for this project is Deputy Minister of Health Marcin Czech. Would you like to answer these questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u342	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Regarding the estimation of the value of illegal export of drugs from Poland, we have estimated data from the last year. We estimate this activity at PLN 1.5 billion, this is the scale of these exports. We are trying to reduce it, monitor the shortage of medicines in individual voivodships, and we are doing our best to ensure that this export is as small as possible. As for the second question from the Member... [[Voice from the room: How much VAT?]] ...the second amendment of pharmaceutical law, as well as the law on monitoring the carriage of goods by road, are intended to solve the problem of illegal drug exports. [[But there's a release.]] Its source is the lowest prices of medicines in Poland compared to prices in neighbouring countries - that's why it pays off. We hope that this activity will be very limited and stopped. On the other hand, we are still creating the law and changing it so that we can have even more strict control over the export of illegal drugs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u343	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 2541, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 306, 1 against, 130 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance. The question is asked by Krzysztof Truskolaska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a step in the right direction. Of course, we can discuss what should be at stake, but certainly food products should be harmonised. I have a question to ask the applicant: Is this law simplifying the tax system and whether this law abolishes the so-called. VAT gaps? I also have a question for the Ministry: Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we paying a different VAT rate for a hot dog in a bar and for a hot dog to go another way? Why do we pay a different VAT rate for coffee in a paper cup and for coffee in a different cup? This is ridiculous. But PiS does not want to reduce VAT to Poles. We are about to vote on the Modern Law, which brings down the stakes from 23% to 22% and from 8% to 7%, but you want to reject it at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u345	Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is also to the applicant. The PiS Club applied to reject this law at first reading, arguing this in financial terms. What are the costs, do you have it counted, you have it counted, the introduction of this uniform VAT rate on food, because the PiS boasts of the high collection rate of VAT, says how successful it is here in terms of financial policy, so I would like to know what the costs of this bill are? And the second question is, do you think this has a positive effect on the climate around VAT collection, around the fight against VAT fraud? Excerpt from the press title: Kaczyński pleaded in favour of the convicted VAT extortion. As a result, he was released. For several months now, there has been a VAT fraud who should only be released on 28 February 2019. Is this an example of the PiS fight against VAT fraudsters - Kaczyński intercede for a fraud and a fraud coming out of prison? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u347	The question was addressed to the representative of the applicants. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. There you go. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Of course the Civic Platform Club Act simplifies the tax system... [[Eight years.]] ...because a roll in a hot dog today can have three different VAT rates: 5%, 8% and 23% and after the adoption by the High House of this law will have only one rate - 5%. Of course, the easier the system is, the harder it is for fraudsters, and the easier it is for honest entrepreneurs. But the essence of this law is that it leaves 1 000 600 thousand in the pocket of a Polish taxpayer. zł. This money is particularly important for pensioners. They are the poorest part of society today. This is money important for single mothers excluded from the 500+ program by the PiS. This money is important for the poorest Poles. Thanks to this bill, sir, a single child's mother could buy him cheap oranges, bananas, chocolate, cocoa. Really the budget of this Can't handle it? If that is so, everything he said yesterday here, from this speaker, Prime Minister Morawiecki, was cynical and lying propaganda, nothing more. [[Applause]] You ask me if the budget is having problems. In my opinion, it has huge, because how else to explain that in 2.5 years Law and Justice introduced 20 - not 5 - not 10 - new taxes and raised taxes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Look at you.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] PiS introduced an issue fee, a power charge, a transitional fee, a water levy, a bottom fee, an e-cigarette excise duty, a flat-rate lease, bank tax, commercial property tax, commercial tax - so far suspended, gambling tax, you also taxed services in agriculture. [[The voice from the hall: Ooh, you're in pain.]] [[Voice from the bank room.]] PiS raised excise duty on used cars and VAT. This year he will raise it again, he has already announced it in a letter to the European Commission. Finally, he announced a solidarity tribute. The list of PiS shame is, of course, even longer. But it's hard to expect... [[Voice from the room: Where is 150 million?]] ...a discount, because yesterday Minister Tchórzewski from this lecturer said something amazing, said that Poles are grateful to PiS for new taxes. This is a peculiar effort to be grateful to the voters. Fingers crossed, with equal determination, keep trying, because winning a united opposition is coming up with big steps. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] We will then lower food prices by lowering VAT. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u349	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 2418 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 232 votes in favour, 201 against, no one abstained. The proposal was, of course, accepted. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! How is it that the government, which at every step stresses that the priority of the state is to support young people, invest in the family, encourage Poles to bear children, at first reading rejects the law reducing VAT on children's clothes? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] I am outraged as a Polish woman, as a mother of two children, that once again the government does not meet the expectations of citizens or keep promises from the election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen! You have children, you have grandchildren. After all, you understand that with 100 zlotys spent on baby clothes you can save 14 zlotys. These are diapers for five days, this is underwear for older children. Please don't tell me that since your parents got 500+, they can afford to pay higher taxes. Just don't say, please, just as you explained it, ladies and gentlemen, in the event of an increase in income... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u351	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative about the government's pro-family policy. Is it true that coffins are charged in Poland at an 8% VAT rate and children's clothing and baby carriages are charged at a 23 percent VAT rate? Is it true that the PiS politicians explain their opposition to this law by fear and fear of the European Commission and the VAT Directive, which limits our ability to reduce this VAT? Is it true that Kukiz15 sent a request to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to the European Commission for a special measure to enable us to do so last year? Is it true that the author of this proposal is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Law and Justice... [[Deputy Minister.]] ...Vice Minister of the Government of Law and Justice? And is it true that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u353	Thank you. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Voice from the room: Question to the applicant.]] [[The questions were.]] Did you report to Mr Protasiewicz? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u354	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The question to the applicant is very short and simple: Is it true that in the election campaign Law and Justice promised to reduce VAT on clothes and goods for children and infants? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u355	Thank you. Does the applicant wish to speak? You're welcome. [[Alone?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Now Mr. Marshal won't be able to turn my microphone off too soon. They will be able to explain exactly why we should reduce VAT on children's clothes. [[Applause]] [[But you don't know because you ask.]] Firstly, you here or any other Member concerned, were full of fear of the European Commission, of the VAT Directive. It so happens that we had a meeting of the Legislative Commission, at which the argument of compliance with EU law was raised and Members of the Law and Justice voted in favour of the passing of the law, thus in favour of the fact that this law is compatible with EU law. That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, even if you have such concerns, I would remind you that Poland is an entity in the European Union and not a subject. The Prime Minister can... [[Get off your knees.]] Send a proposal to the European Commission on the application of a special measure. We have prepared such a proposal, i.e. It was prepared by one of the Vice-Ministers of the Government of Law and Justice, but we sent it to the Prime Minister last year and such a request may be made. Thirdly, even if there is any difficulty in sending such a request, it is possible to follow the example of other Member States, such as France, which in a similar case, in the case of problems with lowering the VAT rate on electronic books, so-called. Without regard to the VAT Directive, e-books reduced this tax, thus forcing the European Commission to amend the VAT Directive in this respect. No punishment went wrong because it was a special case. This particular case is the pro-family policy in Poland, especially prodemographic policy. In Poland, we have a fertility rate of 1.4, and in order for generations to replace, we need to have a fertility factor of at least 2.1. To achieve this, we must first of all relieve young parents, young mothers, young fathers, e.g. by lowering VAT on children's clothing. I would like this to happen, and I would like the politicians of Law and Justice to stop fearing the European Commission so that they stop being afraid of Brussels and follow in the footsteps of other countries... [[Stop snitching on Poland.]] ...such as France, which show that something can be imposed on the European Union, not just passively and in fear to accept everything from the European Commission. So I recommend it. The motion is on the Prime Minister's mailbox. It can be submitted, a special measure can be applied, this law can be adopted as a model for other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u357	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 2433, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 226, against - 98, 108 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on tax on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska with a question, of course, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The evidence first. [[In the water with that phone.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska plays the recording from the phone: We want to introduce a new tax law based on three P - pro-development, transparent, simple; reducing VAT to 22%.]] [[Applause]] [[And you can't speak on your own?]] It was supposed to be pro-developmental, transparent and simple, and it's expensive, complicated and so that it discourages investors. It was supposed to be 22%, and there's a motion to reject a bill that would lead us back to those 22%. The question to the Member of the applicant: Is it true, Mr President, that Poles pay for everything in fact, that buying a computer for $3,000. zł, 30 zł within this 1% Shall we return it to you? Buying a car for $30,000. zł... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Ask the Germans.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u359	Thank you. Member of the applicant... No? We'll proceed to the... Member of the applicant... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to confirm: all these taxes have led to the fact that citizens have already given more than you have given them. So it's not 500 zł plus anymore, it's 700 minus. And let the public know that you're just robbers because you're stealing from society. [[Applause]] But when it comes to the obligations of the Law and Justice, you can say this: you lied, you lie, you lie... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] ...you cheated, you cheated, you cheated. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And you know why? 'Cause that's just the nature of you guys -- it's just that. Prime Minister! I am not surprised that you have been called off as Prime Minister because you are unable to fulfill any of your promises - none at all. Those are your words: 22% VAT. So? And where's the 22%? VAT? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Where's the building?]] In 2016, you extended... Mr Tarczyński, calmly, we will lower VAT on the Jacuzzi. We'll lower the VAT on the hot tub. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal doesn't respond?]] [[Okay, I'll answer you then.]] Prime Minister! You cheat society, you lie, you charge us all with extra taxes. [[I'll remind you of your vote.]] Tax on e-cigarettes, bottom fee, second-hand car excise duty, bank tax, trade tax, progressive rent tax, increase of the Social Security Office for self-employed, recycling fee, tax on commercial property, elimination of the upper premium threshold of the Social Security Office, issue fee, third tax threshold. And that's tax reduction? [[Applause]] Look, I don't think you know what you're saying. You're ruining this country, just this country. Soon he will indeed be in a deplorable state. [[This country is not Poland.]] [[Voice from the hall: Learn to say: Poland.]] And now the question. You said, "Don't steal," right? You say we have everything, you just forget one thing - you're also cheating on the fact that you say you have secured funds for everything, but you don't have a budget surplus, you have a budget deficit, you live on credit and you promise people things that are just on credit. All these things will be paid for by our children. Every child that was born will soon have 200,000. debt thanks to you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] The next generation will not forget this. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the 23 percent tax, yesterday I asked the Deputy Minister of Finance to present in writing to me whether, after rejecting this proposal and this law, you will continue to conspire to extend the period for VAT to continue to apply 23 and 8%. So? You didn't have to wait long. The Minister of Finance said today that the Ministry does not plan to reduce VAT to 22 and 7%. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Therefore, we will continue to pay increased VAT, and as we have just heard from the Prime Minister's mouth, whose speech was quoted, you were to reduce this tax. Prime Minister Morawiecki said: we lower taxes. No, you raise taxes. And what are you spending that money on? For prizes, for high salaries in companies of the State Treasury. There are places where that money is. And don't kid people that you're open to people, you listen to people, and you care about people, because you just rake them. [[Applause]] We're just not gonna let you cheat society here. I hope - hope - that this is the last year of this tax 23% Because you're gonna have to explain yourself from all this. You're looting us. Forget it, because society can't stand it and see that all your promises are just worthless that you say you're giving away and you're giving away our money. What are you spending on? You spend your money buying votes. Best example: pencil cases. It took 1.5 billion to give 3 million citizens, because this would be useful before the elections. The money will appear in September, 3 million people will get 300 PLN each. The same money could be given to people who cared for the disabled. No, but you calculated it. It's better to buy 3 million votes than 270,000. The calculation in this arrangement worked. Yes, you did. [[It takes 9 billion, not 1.5.]] What are you spending your money on? What do you mean, for what? For public television, which is regime television. So you put 1.5 billion PLN in there. [[Is this about the bill?]] Why? In order for President Kurski to insult Polish society with the words of his journalists. The last time the 4th of July was called the day of treason and conspiracy was scandalous. [[Underdogs. They're not journalists.]] You're responsible for this. That's not enough, you pay for him to behave like that. You're paying for this. You pay a lot of money to your trusted journalists who simply descended to Marek Barański's martial law level. This is the level of public television on which you spent PLN 1.5 billion. [[Is that what the project is about?]] And that's where the money is. You just take tribute from people just to make sure you're better off, and the rest of you just have deep respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u361	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2451 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 230, against - 202, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The question was asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: Something's recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u362	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Okay, let's do it again. [[And again with the phone.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska plays the recording from the phone: We want to introduce a new tax law based on three P - pro-development, transparent, simple; reducing VAT to 22%.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, today you've been explaining on the radio all morning, what you're taking money for. Why don't you show the Poles that you mean something in this government and that you can do something. [[Applause]] That 1%... That's one more time because the marshal turned my mic off. [[Voice from the room: And he'll shut it down.]] It's a $3,000 computer. PLN is 30 PLN of additional VAT. It's a $30,000 car. this is an additional 300 PLN of VAT. It's a $300,000 apartment. That's an extra 3,000. VAT. You promised this to Poles - not 100% VAT on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, only a return to the 22 percent rate. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u363	Member of Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Member of the applicant. Mr PSL, is it true that in 2011 VAT was increased from 22 to 23% under the PO-PSL regime temporary for two years? Is it true that the Party of Law and Justice has been ruling for over two years - in the election campaign, as we have just heard, it has been announced to reduce VAT to 22% - and she didn't do anything about it? Finally, is it true that if Members push the buttons in a moment and vote against this project, it will mean that everyone is in favour of not lowering VAT to remain at 23% ? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u365	Mr Michał Kaminski, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u366	PSL and the Union of European Democrats, Mr. Marshal, you can remember. I have a question for the Member of the applicant: Would the whole situation with this VAT discussion not be possible to characterize with such a picture, a picture of Andrzej Mleczek, in which in the woods of Sherwood his colleague reads such an calculation and says: Robin, if not counting, the own costs of our band exceed what he managed to take from the rich? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u367	Member Dominik Tarczyński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I told you not to bother me, but now that you've bothered me, I have a question: Is the Modern Member a representative of a party that can't make a transfer, losing its subsidies? And he wants to tell us about VAT? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voices from the gym: Give me the money.]] Is the reduction of VAT on coffins and the increase of VAT on the mentioned carts and children's clothing by the Platform? Of course it is. [[Voice from the room: Yes! Bravo!]] Where is Marshal Kidawa-Błońska? 153 billion of OFE wrapped up, as you said, on the way, 19 died somewhere. Do you have any idea where that 19 billion died and where it is? [[Game in the O.R.]] Yeah, I know, it's pissing, it's great. Finally, every Pole in your government lost $8,000. zł. You have no right. To lecture us because reduced CIT is a fact. There's no discussion that money... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u369	The applicant Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15. [[Voice from the courtroom: Why aren't you watching the time?]] Because the scream is in the courtroom, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u370	Mr. Marshal! Allow me to raise the level of discussion. [[Applause]] Funny? He was chasing the pot to the kettle. You're equals, you deserve each other. In fact, in this room, we have two Platforms and two PiSs. [[Applause]] Maybe you'll finally shake hands as a big coalition that raises taxes. Some pointed out an increase when they were in opposition... [[We can't, because you're in such a hug that we can't.]] ...and now the others are doing the same thing. Gentlemen and ladies, a little serious. We're down to 22% of VAT. [[Who?]] He's connected to every product. VAT pays everyone - a child who buys a lollipop, as well as an older, young person. Everyone pays that tax. Therefore, the reduction will leave more money left in everyone's wallet. On average for each Pole this money per year will be approx. 270 zł. For every Pole... [[Elementary level.]] ...a grown-up, little one, we're talking about $38 million here. So this is a tangible advantage for all of us. More in your wallet, more to spend, happier man. It's a simple solution. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, when buying a house from a developer or an apartment for 250,000. $2.5,000 we're talking about. zł, which has not been in the wallets of Poles since 2011, when temporarily, for 2 years, the Civic Platform has raised VAT, which has already lasted for the seventh year. But if that's not enough, there's another question. This increase in VAT caused a super-present for the mafia carousel, for them it was a 5% increase in profits - thanks to one bill, thanks to one raise. And you guys are holding on to this situation today, which is that all those who made big money, billions on it, can do even bigger thanks to you guys. [[Applause]] Way to go, y'all. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope he finally gets to you... I mean, I don't expect you to keep your promises, because we know how politicians approach it, but the point is to take a little look at the fate of an ordinary man who doesn't sit on a bench, doesn't drive cars, doesn't have that fuel, hotels and everything you're buying there so that the money can finally stay a little more. Not that you're giving us anything. Just start taking away less from us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u371	Was the Member mentioned? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] Were you mentioned? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u372	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tarczyński, I have one question for you: do you finally know where you are employed and where you are getting your salary? [[Applause]] Because modern Members, unlike you, know... [[I told you not to bother me.]] ...whether they're professional or not. [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] Please account for the lies you give in the interviews you lie to the Poles. [[Applause]] [[I'll be right back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u373	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No. 2519 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - 228, against - 205, holding off on 2. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We are returning to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Centre for Civil Society Development. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2576. The question was raised by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u374	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is always good when there is extra money for NGOs and building civil society. But it's very bad when this money is centrally distributed into organizations conducive to government power and the majority that owns power. Therefore, my question is: Why is 20 million PLN needed to renovate the headquarters of the Institute of Freedom? Will this help civil society to function, or will it build it? Why are there as many as 60 new jobs for civil society and NGOs to operate? Why was there no consultation on this project, Minister? After all, if we are talking about civil society, organisations, it is difficult to talk about them without the participation of these organisations, and they unfortunately did not have the right to vote at this point. We opposed the establishment of an institute of freedom, we opposed funding such a hopeless institution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u375	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National Freedom Institute - Center for Civil Society Development. You use great words - national, civic, freedom - to cover up your indecencies and disgraceful behaviors. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yesterday, today you actually punished an opposition Member once again, Marshal, for acting in the Seym. Several thousand zlotys of Mr Nitras will have less of the payout. [[But so peaceful today.]] [[Voice from the room: Drop off.]] You're trying to intimidate the opposition. [[Game in the O.R.]] And you speak in big words. You hide in your offices, and there you have the courage to impose punishment on the opposition. Mr. Marshal Terlecki! Mr. Marshal Kuchciński! Do you have the courage to stand here and tell the High House which of the PiS Members has ever been punished by you... [[Voice from the O.R.: None.]] ...whatever... [[Voice from the hall: For what?]] ...for your obscene behavior in the parliament hall, for your statements, for all you're doing here? Do you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you had the courage to punish someone of yours? Shame and shame... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...it'll come back like karma. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u377	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2576 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 227, against - 183, the 22. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Institute of Freedom - Center for Civil Society Development. We would like to refer to item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2284. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2284, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 427, no one voted against, 2 abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Turkey on social security, drawn up in Warsaw on 17 October 2017. We are returning to the examination of point 32 of the agenda: the report by the European Union Commission for European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, drawn up at Munich on 18 February 2017. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 2465. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2465 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -430, 2 stopped, no one opposed. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, drawn up in Munich on 18 February 2017. We refer to point 33 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 24 November 2017. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 2466. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2466 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For it was 429, 1 held back, no one was against it. The Sejm has adopted the Act on the ratification of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 24 November 2017. We return to the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the basic report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. The Commission proposes that this report be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The point is that the report states that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, based on the amendment of the law, had to take over 27 thousand. information on the transaction in respect of real estate. Of course, you can accept it, that's all you have to read, rewrite and describe. Turns out that's not possible. I have a question for Minister Zieliński. How is it that the ministry so well-functioning is unable to carry out its tasks under the bill that you voted and accepted? And I have a favor to ask. I hope the Minister doesn't find my question uncomfortable and if I leave the Sejm, the police won't write me down around the corner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u379	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the report contained in print 2432, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 201, against - 228, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion to reject the report has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Trade Unions and certain other laws (Prints No 1933, 2420 and 2420-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Janusz Sniadek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u380	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws, print No 1933. At its meeting on 8 May 2018, the Sejm re-directed the draft law to the committee for consideration of the four amendments tabled at second reading. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u381	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2420. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Trade Union Act. In the first amendment to Article. 25 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 167, against - 233, 25 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u382	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the original version of the project, this point, two conditions had to be met in order to obtain the share of the trade union organisation. The first condition left is the 6-month period of employment. The second condition, which was the discussion, which unfortunately fell out of this law, was the fulfilment of the economic criterion. This was the total remuneration received for doing the work. We believe that in order for the definition to be fully good and to correspond to employers and employees, the economic criterion must be re-established. The point is to show the worker's dependence on the employer, the attachment of the employee to the employer; to avoid giving such a possibility that the contractor working in several workplaces, regardless of whether he works there for 6 months at random or 6 months at some time, is also economically dependent; to prevent that person from being able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] in how many workplaces, regardless of income, belong to the organization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u383	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Sixty-sixty-sixty-seven, against 237, holding off on 25. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 25 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For -37, against - 244, with a hold of 142. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 32 applicants shall propose a different wording of the added paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 157, against - 243, the 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill... The question was asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u384	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would very much like to support this bill... [[Voice from the hall: Back it up.]] ...for two reasons: firstly, because the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which you are conducting is a miracle, because it happens very rarely, you usually simply ignore it; secondly, because we consider it right to extend the right to associate in trade unions also to contractors and extend the possibilities of coalitions. But the law that we create affects employers, employees and should be created well, carefully. The definitions contained in this law, first of all, are unclear, vague, e.g. The definition of a person doing a job will raise a great deal of controversy. Secondly, the amendment I was talking about is the economic criterion. It should be included in this bill. If we are creating a law concerning such a wide range and people, then it must be well created. The judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal must be well implemented and implemented in Polish law. Not messy, not messy, not messy. Therefore, with great heartache, this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u385	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2420 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 395, against - 27, with a hold of 14. The Sejm passed a law amending the Trade Union Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law on the management of a successful natural person's company (prints no. 2293, 2454 and 2454-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 10 May, the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation considered print No 2454 - the original printing is printing No 2293 - the government draft act on the management of the successful natural person's company. 10 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission proposes to adopt nine amendments and to reject one amendment. Amendment 5 more precisely and transparently addresses this issue than in the proposal for amendment 4, by reducing the required duration of running of the company acquired through inheritance or recovery in the exercise of the tax exemption from 5 to 2 years. The Commission is proposing to adopt a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u387	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2454. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. add Article. 24a. Amendments 3 and 10 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. For - 419, no one was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 applicants propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 405, 1 was against, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 4b of the Income Tax Act on successions and donations are proposed by the applicant in paragraph 4. 1 add point 3 and after paragraph. 4 plus paragraph. 5 and 6. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 5th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 204, against - 211, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 4b. Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 3 The Act on Income Tax on Succession and Donations proposes a period of 5 years to replace a period of 2 years. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For -404, against -5, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment to the Act, the Law on the notary of the applicant proposes among others. changes concerning the appointment of a succession manager and changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 397, against - 5, 21 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 42f of the Individual Income Tax Act, the applicants propose in paragraph 42f. 4 editorial and legislative changes. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For - 427, 1 held back, no one was against it. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 13a The Road Transport Act proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. For - 425, no one was against, 1 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2454, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. For -430, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on the management of a successful business of a natural person. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973 (prints Nos 2304 and 2394) - third reading. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted in the form of a print submission No 2304. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in the wording of print no. 2344, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For -433, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, drawn up in Geneva on 10 May 1973. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Greece on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Athens on 14 October 1992 (prints Nos 2348 and 2395) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2348, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -430, no one was against, no 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Greece on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Athens on 14 October 1992. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Spain on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Madrid on 30 July 1992 (prints Nos 2349 and 2396) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety, in print no. 2349, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. For - 427, 1 was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Spain on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Madrid on 30 July 1992. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996 (prints No 2350 and 2397) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2350 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For -432, 1 was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investment, drawn up in Helsinki on 25 November 1996. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, as amended and supplemented by the Protocol between the Polish Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, drawn up in Berlin on 14 May 2003 (prints No 2352 and 2398) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2352, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. For - 420, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, drawn up in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, amended and supplemented by the Protocol between the Polish Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany concerning amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, signed in Warsaw on 10 November 1989, drawn up in Berlin on 14 May 2003. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 11 April 1994 (Prints No 2360 and 2399) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.2360 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -430, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 11 April 1994. We proceed with the examination of item 44 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in London on 8 December 1987 (Prints Nos 2364 and 2400) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2344, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -433, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in London on 8 December 1987. We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments, drawn up in Vienna on 24 November 1988 (prints 2365 and 2401) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.2365 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For -433, no one was against it, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments, drawn up in Vienna on 24 November 1988. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 28 September 1992 (prints No 2374 and 2402) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.2374 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 427, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 28 September 1992. We proceed with the examination of item 47 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 21 February 1995 (prints No 2375 and 2403) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.2375 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -431, no one voted against, 2 abstained. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Croatia on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Warsaw on 21 February 1995. We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Hungary on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 23 September 1992 (prints No 2378 and 2404) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.2378 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For -431, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Hungary on mutual support and investment protection, drawn up in Budapest on 23 September 1992. We proceed with the examination of item 49 of the agenda: the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989 (prints Nos 2379 and 2405) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2379. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety, in print no.2379, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -426, no one was against, two stopped. The Sejm passed a bill on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 13 October 1989. We proceed with the examination of point 50 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 26 April 1993 (prints No 2373 and 2406) - third reading. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2373. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2373, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 419. For - 416, against - 1 2 Members abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on mutual support and protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 26 April 1993. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Environmental Law and some other laws (print No 2223) - continuation. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to additionally refer the draft law to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If the proposal is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this bill to the committee. The question was raised by Mr Rafał Trzaskalski... I'm sorry, Trzaskowski. I am very sorry, sir, it is indistinctly written. [[Some Members chant: Berlin! Berlin! Berlin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u388	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Members and Members of the Law and Justice, but above all I have a question for the rapporteur. What are you afraid of in a law that is supposed to allow local governments and in general in Poland To fight smog effectively? Many of your presidential candidates appear in front of the cameras and talk about the fact that they will fight smog, and now you want to reject the bill at first reading, which will really help fight what all Poles and Poles are afraid of, and very rightly so. This is a classic test of your intentions, because you say one thing and you do the other. [[Applause]] No worries right now, we don't hide our heads in the sand, we don't draw cards. [[Voice from the room: Me, me.]] Vote for this bill because it's a check for your credibility... [[Jawohl!]] ...or do you really want to fight the smog? We will see, we will pay attention to the outcome of this vote, especially all the candidates in the local elections. We look, we wait, we check. [[Applause]] [[Jawohl!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u389	The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club. [[Excuse me, I'd like to make a formal request.]] After the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, have a question for the applicant's representative. Is it true that this bill is trying to solve problems in terms of improving air quality in Poland? Is it true that so far the government's actions, and in particular Prime Minister Morawiecki, have limited themselves to seeking a job for Piotr Woźny? He was already a Deputy Minister, a proxy, and recently became Vice President of the National Environmental Fund. Is it possible to vote against this project if you read it? I hope that the Member will present to the PiS Members what is in this law so that they can change their mind. If you reject this bill, I inform you that the Modern has filed a package of antismog laws today... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...five sets, [[Applause]] We're gonna be investigating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your fight with smog is the death of 130,000. People...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u391	Does the applicant wish to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u392	...who died in your reign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u393	Are you a Member of this House or a Member of this House? Member of the applicant... Formal conclusion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u394	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention and for you to explain to us where we are, whether in the Seym or something that is an assembly, where you have more rights than others. During the speech of our club colleague, a group of MEPs, among others. Mr. Zaremba of the PiS... [[Voice from the room: Don't point your finger!]] ...screaming: go to Berlin, go to Berlin. That's what Mr Morawiecki said yesterday. What's this? What's this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What's that supposed to mean?]] We are Polish Members in the Polish Sejm and we have the same rights as you. Same rights as you. [[Applause]] This is insulting, this is, I don't want to use strong words... What's the worst thing that can happen to a Pole who is accused of not being a Pole in the Seym? Who gave you that right? Who gave you that right? Who gave you that right? [[Applause]] Our grandparents, our fathers... Our constituents listen to how you treat them. [[They listen, they listen.]] Are you the only real Poles? Mr. Marshal, I wanted to ask you what punishment these people will face for insulting others? What punishment will they face, Marshal? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What punishments?]] [[He can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u395	I don't find encouragement to go to Berlin an insult. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[That's embarrassing.]] [[Voice from the room: Go to Berlin!]] However, a formal request for interruption has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 178, against - 254, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The applicant will now speak. Please, Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea and purpose of this law was to resolve and finally solve the issue of smog in Poland over divisions and over ideology. The air has no party colors and poisons the PiS voters as well as the Platform, Kukiz and Modern voters. We have put together in the best faith a bill that regulates these issues. All the clubs wanted to work on it, only the PiS filed a motion for rejection at first reading. What doesn't PiS want to talk about here in the plenary room? He doesn't want to talk about over 50,000. Poles die every year because of poor air quality. I do not want to talk about the fact that we have the worst air quality in Europe and that we need to solve this. I do not want to talk about the fact that local governments of voivodships and municipalities have too little power and not enough money to effectively fight smog, and they want to do so. You don't want to talk about it here in this room. Why don't you want to talk about it? It's because we're proposing specifics, and we're not proposing talking after press conferences, talking nonsense and more ranches, multiplying money. Prime Minister Morawiecki started with 180 million, which were supposed to take care of the smog, and we spent on thermomodernization bonuses and 500 million of our time a year. [[Voice from the room: Annually.]] Yesterday, for 11 billion, he reached 130 billion. Except he's just talking about it, he doesn't point to the sources of funding or the way in which he talks about the same things that we propose in the bill that you don't want to talk about. What's this? We want to ensure the fight against smog by law, not just by declaring it a story. We want to introduce strict standards and on fuel, and on boilers, so that this rigor is in the bill, not just in the hands of the government, which can change it at any time and which, according to political circumstances, may have a different opinion. We want Poles to be better informed and faster about air quality. What are we primarily planning? We have proposed that every year the government be accounted for by at least 0.5% of the amount spent on the fight against smog. GDP from public funds. We don't want any extra money. We do not want, like Prime Minister Morawiecki, to draw money out of taxpayers' pockets for this purpose from additional taxes. That money's in the public domain. [[Voice from the room: Where were they?]] They are in the form of money from emissions trading, in the form of EU funds, which are now, among others. go to Torun, which are scattered in other areas. [[Better than Berlin.]] We want it to be structured. That's what the Prime Minister says. That's what his minister says. Why wouldn't you want to process this bill? We want Poles to have tax reliefs and to be able to deduct as tax relief their investments in thermomodernization and replacement of boilers. Yesterday the Prime Minister said the same thing, he quoted - and we gave him these papers - our ideas. Why can't it be in the bill? Because then we'll settle for it. That's why you don't want to talk about it. We want to help the poorest and those affected by energy poverty. We want this... [[You should have helped.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] For eight years, we've done 100 times more than you've done right now because we've done it, and we haven't talked. [[260 billion.]] It is you who are calling today in Brussels for our National Air Protection Programme, only that you have taken the money to implement it. [[Applause]] How embarrassing are you? Tell that to the Poles. [[Yes?]] [[Member, please come down from these clouds.]] Tell the Poles what the PiS rapporteur said, that tax relief for Poles for the exchange of heat sources can lead to abuse, because Poles usually steal as much as they are allowed. That's what the PiS thinks it can lead to a budget deficit, and these yesterday's 130 billion premiere - we don't know where - will not lead to destabilization, and the fight against smog is our mirage, for which public money is wasted. [[Applause]] How embarrassing are you? How can you reject this project? [[The voice from the hall: Kara, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Don't embarrass yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u397	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u398	Member, congratulations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going down, Member. I'm coming down and I'm on the ground. We are talking about specific money and concrete solutions. We are not talking about millions of electric cars and mirages whose sources of funding or methods are not indicated. We don't build central ports without any plans and without fixing, with contempt for the residents. [[Applause]] We're on the ground, but you don't want to talk about specifics. You prefer to talk at press conferences and tell such nonsense as the Prime Minister said yesterday, momming and cheating Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[No, no, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u399	We'll proceed with the vote. Yes? Minister? You're welcome. Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we have a clean air problem, and everyone knows it. [[Where are the billions?]] A few weeks ago, the European Court of Justice ruled that Poland had violated the standards of air cleanliness in the years, note: 2007 [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But the air got worse.]] Does that mean anything to you, this period? [[Applause]] [[But what are you happy about?]] But at the same time... [[But you're glad we have that kind of air?]] Unfortunately, the facts cannot be screamed. But at the same time, the Government of Law and Justice presented a programme called "Clean Air," whose principles are even greater than those of the Civic Platform, because we presented a very real, complementary and consistent programme, pointing out very precisely the sources of funding that have been set up for 10 years. First of all, the thermomodernization of single-family homes, which is low emissions, second of all, the fight against car exhaust smog in the centers of large cities, third of all, the fight against high emissions. At this moment contracts for more than 20 billion PLN were signed. The whole programme - PLN 130 billion. That's more than 0.5%. The GDP you want to give, so really, if you want to bid, why don't you give us 0.7%, 0.8%? , not 0.5%. Really. [[And all you promise.]] If the Member goes down on the ground, I am very happy, because this 0.5% But it was flying in the clouds. We really are implementing this program in real terms. What the Prime Minister announced yesterday is a real commitment, showing real sources of funding, among other things. European funds, national environmental funds, regional environmental funds. This has been calculated precisely and we will implement it. For 8 years you have acted so that the European Court of Justice must have indicated that Poland is violating the standards of air cleanliness. We're just going to solve this problem, not just talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u401	We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2223 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 235, against - 198, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 52 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union (prints 2427, 2484 and 2484-A) - voting. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2484-A. I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to present an additional report by the European Union Committee on Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. The European Union Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 17 May, recommends to the High House that one amendment be rejected and two be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u403	The Commission proposes that a draft resolution be adopted in print No 2427. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In Amendment 1, the applicants propose a new wording of point 5 in the fifth paragraph of the draft resolution. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your rapporteur did not say what this resolution was about, she did not want to boast. This resolution concerns cohesion policy. As a result, we lost over PLN 80 billion on this policy, or 23% of the PiS's 30-month government. [[And the sun doesn't shine.]] This is the result of your policy. Yes, sir. I am therefore surprised that you lacked the courage to present to the High House the resolution you proposed in 2012. I will read it to you: The Sejm is convinced that the appropriate shape of the common financial framework should guarantee Poland, in accordance with the Treaty provisions, due to us, an equal, fair share of the resources coming from the Community budget. We consider it particularly important to end discrimination against Polish farmers expressed in unequal amounts and payment mechanisms. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u405	The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u406	Your budget achieves all these goals... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u407	...Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform Club. [[Where's the airport?]] [[Okęciu.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u408	High Seym! We are about to test your marshal's patience because we have a resolution on cohesion policy, only that there has been an earthquake since. Looks like you're gonna lose 80 billion zlotys and there's gonna be small cuts. They were supposed to be small cuts. We're gonna root for you guys so these cuts are really small, you just gotta get to work. We need to start negotiating. [[Applause]] [[Then stop snitching, snitch.]] You must take an example of what the Civic Platform has done, which has negotiated 400 billion PLN. Do you know how to get to work? You must, Mr. Marshal, go to Berlin, you must go to Paris. You need to get to work, you need to start negotiating, because you will lose money, thanks to which Polish local governments can develop. So let's get to work. [[Some Members chant: Berlin! Berlin! Berlin!]] It was the Prime Minister who practiced at Deutsche Bank. Your Prime Minister has connections there, so go and work. Get money for Poles and Poles. That's what we're waiting for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u409	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[What a nervous tension.]] 433 Members voted. In - 200, against - 231, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to add a new paragraph to the draft resolution. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mr Marek Sowa, the Modern Club, joined the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment must be rejected because it is harmful to Poland. If you think that European taxpayers' money should be spent fairly, transparently and effectively, and Poland represents the highest standard in this respect, no additional provisions need be made. And you're writing in there the elements that show your true intentions that you want to con, you want to cheat the European Union. [[Applause]] This amendment must therefore be rejected. There really isn't... People who have pure intentions are not afraid of the rule of law. People who obey the law won't be afraid of him. This is not feared by any Polish beneficiary. [[Applause]] They will settle all the money under the law, and you simply want to deceive the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u411	The question is asked by Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club. [[Berlin!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u412	Don't worry, you'll go, you'll negotiate. Just listen, there's nothing to laugh about, because apart from the €20 billion - 80 billion zlotys you're probably gonna lose, I hope you'll reduce those losses. [[Voice from the hall: Do you wish us this?]] And there's a mechanism that ties the rule of law to these funds. And what might it be? That a huge part of the money that's gonna be left is gonna be frozen. Either you change your behavior and withdraw from those scandalous laws that break the rule of law in Poland, or Poles and Poles who will know how much money you will lose, farmers who will know, local government officials who will know... [[There won't be a bench.]] Today, when you start an upcoming election campaign, you promise how much investment will be made. Because of you, there may not be any investment at all... [[And there won't be any sun.]] ...because there will be frozen money from the European Union. [[Applause]] And you know what the Poles will have to do now? Either you will come to your senses, or you will have to change the government and you will have to win the opposition so that Polish farmers and Polish local governments will see [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anything... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u413	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment opposes the link between the European Union budget and the rule of law control. That is why my question is addressed to the rapporteur. What are you afraid of in this rule of law check? If the rule of law in Poland is not violated by your governments, it is not violated if the Supreme Court is not paralyzed if the common courts are not subject to control by the Minister of Justice and the Executive Authority, if the Constitutional Tribunal is acting in accordance with the functions assigned to it by the Constitution, then what are you afraid of? Or maybe it's different. Maybe you're aware that you're breaking the rule of law, violating the standards... [[The voice from the hall: You've already broken it, you rascals.]] ...and that the consequence of this policy will be the collection of billions of gold from the Republic of Poland, which will be the result of bad negotiations and bad policies in the field of the rule of law that you are conducting. What is the reason for this amendment, rapporteur? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u415	Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u416	This is the only way I can comment on Mr Trzaskowski's speech: Trzaskowski as Komorowski. [[Voice from the room: This is not a comment.]] [[You can ask, not comment.]] We heard from Komorowski that if the PiS wins, the chickens will stop carrying and the cows will give milk. [[What's this?]] And now we hear we're gonna lose all our money. [[Why don't you start thinking about it?]] 64 billion PLN is a proposal from the cohesion policy budget. And note, Poland is on the first place, we have the highest amount of EUR 331 billion. Even at this point, the Prime Minister said that this is unacceptable to us, even though Poland is the highest. And among the countries that are about to lose more than 20%, there are also Germany - your political gods. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] 10 countries are expected to lose more than 20% according to this proposal. Poland will not agree to this. And you, Mr. Trzaskowski - Komorowski, know very well that if necessary, there will be a veto, and that budget will not be. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Money neither.]] [[Room voice: 27 to 1.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u417	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For - 262, against - 168, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Members have asked questions. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Adoption by the European Commission on 2 May 2018 of the draft budget of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021 to 2027 shows Poland's position in the European Union today, how badly this position has been demoted. On May 2nd, you said that this budget was optimistic, that it was beautiful, that everything was a good basis for negotiation, but when the regulations came out, you had a bad face because the truth came out. It has been shown that we are losing 3.5 billion to the common agricultural policy, mainly to the second pillar, to the rural development fund. There will be no leader, there will be no local action groups, there will be revitalization of villages, construction of networks, there will be no subsidies... [[It's gonna be okay.]] ...a subsidy to buy tractors. It won't. It won't be, because that's the policy and the effect of PiS policy. And there won't be... [[And the milk? And the eggs, too.]] ...also for the fight for clean air, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you didn't even offer... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in the European Union such a priority. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[And there won't be a PiS.]] [[What are you doing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u419	Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u420	Look at this. The experts you've got, who don't even know anything about anything, just some bon mota here. Well, if there's a mechanism for combining funds with the rule of law... [[Voice from the room: There will be no.]] ...which could lead you to lose money that is so important to local governments, the decision will be taken by qualified majority. You don't even know it... [[Applause]] And an inverted qualified majority. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] What's more, if this is the end of the negotiations... [[Stop snitching, snitch.]] ... These will be losses of about PLN 80 billion. [[Voice from the room: Money is gone and there will be no money. Who's talking?]] There will be very bad rules on what European taxes will look like, very unfavourable to Poland. [[A whistle-blower, a whistle-blower.]] And unfortunately, Poles will pay for your completely irresponsible policy: local governments and farmers. But luckily, that money can only be turned off frozen. Therefore, Poles and Poles will have a very important argument in the vote. You're gonna have to lose another election because if you don't lose it, we're all gonna... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...it'll cost too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u421	Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about how it is possible that we are talking about money, about the Cohesion Fund, and at the moment another fire has started. At this moment, another landfill fire started in my region in Bytom. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Again, we're looking at how great the garbage mafia is, because we're talking about things where the most important thing is hitting the other guy. I ask you: When will you respond to our appeal yesterday to set up a committee for: rubbish, [[Applause]] tho junk policy, The garbage mafia? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u423	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are foaming here, but none of you will say that, above all, the criteria for granting these cohesion funds have changed substantially in the European Union, that this is not the case at the moment, and it has been de facto It is very socialised that funds in the European Union today go, for example, to regions that are flooded by immigrants, and thus are bonus countries that do not guard their own borders. And that is the signal in which the Union is evolving. This simple mechanism, which has been so far, is changing. And the state instead of foaming and moving on to this charity, which of the Union, by the way, with our money... [[Did you graduate at least?]] ...comes instead of fighting, flipping... [[Do you even have the math to tell such nonsense here?]] ...one with another, you'd start thinking seriously about what's on the horizon, about the wind blowing from London blowing from Rome, which is what's going to happen after the European Union. Because Poland should join this league and leave the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u425	Mr Dominik Tarczyński, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u426	Mr Trzaskowski, not only do you not know the districts of Warsaw... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[My salary!]] ...but you also do not know the treaty provisions, because the Dublin agreements give us a sovereign decision on immigration issues, and no majority will change the treaty. That's first of all. Secondly, the criteria that have emerged, i.e. not only the admission of immigrants, but also the responsibility of countries for their integration, are absurd. No illegal Muslim immigrant will come to Poland as long as we rule. Amen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u427	Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u428	I mean, I'm glad you guys know each other in Warsaw, and I'm glad you know immigration, but you don't know anything about the EU budget or the procedures. That's because there's a rule of law. It's gonna be a regulation that... She'll decide in the reverse... Voting by qualified majority. You just don't know what you're talking about. [[Applause]] This isn't about any treaty change. The problem is that he's... I respectfully refer to my fellow Members who are on the bureau of the committee, but unfortunately all the other Members who have an idea like you are completely unfit for this committee, because you don't know... [[Sure.]] ...totally nothing about procedures, you don't know how to build a budget, you don't know what taxes look like, and then it ends like this. That is why I would advise you, Mr Tarczynski: get on a car or train and go and learn what procedures look like, and then maybe you will know something about it. [[Game in the O.R.]] I encourage you. [[On a plane to Berlin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u429	Mr President, if you name each other, we will not leave here. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[But substantively.]] We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print 2427, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 270, against - 30, holding 125. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the future shape of cohesion policy in the European Union. We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: Changes in the membership of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (Print No 2611). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. 2 (2) 1 and Article 1 5a Act on the Parliamentary Committee of Investigation and Article. Paragraph 136c. The 12 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have submitted a proposal for changes in the personal composition of the committee of inquiry. Let me remind you that on the basis of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the law on the Parliament's committee of inquiry shall amend the composition of the committee of inquiry by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2611 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[A voice from the room: There's a question, Mr. Marshal.]] For what? It's too late. 417 Members voted. The absolute majority is 209. For -402, against -8, with a hold of 7. By an absolute majority, the Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Committee of Investigation. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 63rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that no Members have come forward... Are they willing? Members have come forward to make their statements. Anyone else want to join us? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] And please be quiet in the courtroom. The Member makes a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns the route of the railway road from Katowice to the Pyrzowice airport, which is very important and strategic in our region. The transport pillar is the basis for economic development. A properly functioning transport system with modern infrastructure is the basis for economic growth and sustainable development of urban and municipal centres. Revitalization and reconstruction of railway line No 182 Tarnowskie Góry - Zawiercie and modernization of line No 131 leading to Pyrzowice airport are a condition of many economic and social benefits. Improving the availability of communication airport in Pyrzowice will connect large and small city centres to the communication network, causing various economic development, and will increase the chance for the economic development of smaller municipalities and the availability of communication. It will also improve the investment and tourist attractiveness of the region. It will create favourable conditions for business development. The revitalized line No 182 from Tarnowskie Góra to Zawiercie will cause trains from Katowice to the airport to take the route through Chorzów, Bytom and Tarnowskie Góra, and after reaching their destination they will continue their journey to Zawiercie. This is a very important direction that the rule of law and justice is currently taking. We've waited a long time for this connection. I wanted to thank you for your work and for your contribution to making positive decisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u431	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! People of Starogard Gdansk and Starogard District! From the information presented in the Sejm about the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones, which took into account the state of 31 December 2016, a picture of the marazm and lack of an idea for the development of our country emerged. Let me give you a few numbers. The number of permits issued to invest in zones decreased in 2016 from 436 licences issued to 257. Investment outlays almost increased in the above mentioned period. zones. All of this had to change, therefore the Act adopted will allow not only to increase the economic potential of Poland, but also to increase the standard of living of the inhabitants of Poland, also of the district of Starogard. At the 62nd meeting of the Sejm, a law was adopted on the promotion of new investments. The existing new investment support mechanism has been linked to the need for public aid operators to obtain business permits on the so-called premises. Special economic zones. This caused not only a lot of difficulties, but also deepened the differences in economic development of many regions of Poland, which was also noticeable in the area of Pomeranian voivodship. Government estimates indicate that almost 13,000 could benefit from support. entrepreneurs throughout the country. It is worth adding that the location of the investment will be important. Above all, areas with the highest unemployment will be supported. The higher unemployment, the lower the value of investment will be required and more support will be provided. The law adopted introduces solutions to implement new mechanisms to support business decision-making throughout the country. It includes a number of mechanisms of tax preferences, special reliefs, which are designed to develop a favourable investment environment. This support will complement the existing resolution of the Special Economic Zones Act. The new regulations are an important instrument in the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. One of the elements of this strategy is to build tools that will really stimulate economic development and at the same time remove barriers to entrepreneurs. Our priority is to stimulate the growth of private investment, particularly in the areas of innovation development, technology development and exports, and to create stable jobs. This will not only create new, well-paid jobs, it will also be an opportunity for areas that have been forgotten by previous governments. I am thinking in particular of the areas of districts where effective programmes have not been presented for years to combat unemployment, to raise the salaries of workers. In combination with the lack of investment and industrial zones, this deepened the differences with regard to metropolitan cities or those closer to voivodship capitals. The Law on the promotion of new investments is also an update of the solutions used in special economic zones, the primary task of which was to stimulate economic growth in a specific territory of the country, e.g. by local application of tax relief or exemption. This formula is already gradually running out. New solutions respond to dynamically changing needs of entrepreneurs and investors, even if they reduce investment time. At the same time, it should be stressed that we will not give up special economic zones which will operate by 2026 under the rules. The coexistence of two laws will create a new system of investment incentives. New solutions contained in the bill will include investments in the form of construction of new production facilities and reinvestments. This is in line with the Responsible Development Strategy. The government project also envisages a complete departure from territorial restrictions on the possibility of receiving support in the form of tax preferences. The Law on the Promotion of New Investments implements a coherent investment infrastructure system and provides for legal solutions to improve the whole process, e.g. the possibility for the National Centre for Agricultural Assistance to transfer property intended for industrial and service purposes. I would like to add that as an entrepreneur, as a former entrepreneur, I see huge potential in the proposed solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, the entire area of the country will become a big industrial zone. This creates not only an opportunity to effectively exploit the potential of county and municipal cities, it is also an opportunity to increase the dynamics of entrepreneurship development in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u433	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 May 1791, it is one of the most important dates in the Polish historical calendar. It was 227 years ago that a document of great political importance was adopted during the session of the Four Year Sejm for the Polish state, of which we are proud to this day. The celebration, which we celebrate on 3 May, was one of the first national holidays adopted by the Legislative Sejm after gaining independence in 1918, which is especially worth remembering on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence this year. Recalling these important events from the end of the 18th century, I would like to say that since the beginning of my duties as a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland every year, together with the school curatorium, I organize a historical competition for junior high school students on a permanent topic: the Constitution of 3 May - Stanisławów's times. I am honored that this year, the honorary patronage of this competition, as in the previous year, was taken by Marshal Marek Kuchciński. I organized the finals of the historical competitions are characterized by the fact that the competition tests are evaluated by the committee chosen by drawing from among the group's guardians, and the participants will learn the results of the competition on the same day. During the examination by the test committee, participants, students who come to these competitions from all over Małopolska, although mainly from Gorlicki County, Sądeckie, Limanowszczyzna, will learn about Gorlice and the rich history of our city, especially the course of the famous Gorlicka Battle. This year they could watch an exhibition related to the anniversary of the Battle of Gorlice. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this year's Historical Competition, the Constitution of May 3 - Stanislaw's times won: Gabriel Rola, Małgorzata Kuzera and Gabriel Wolińska from the Primary School. Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszyński in Siedlce with a total of 257 points. The second place was won by a team of students from the Primary School in Swiniarsk, with a total of 248 points. The third place was won by a team from the School Complex in Gorlicki Street, which gained 242 points. The fourth place was taken by a team from the Primary School in Podgrodzie, winning 241 points. The fifth place was won by students of the Municipal School Complex No. 4 in Gorlice, where this competition takes place every year, winning a total of 229 points. The winners are five teams, but I would like to say that in the competition, almost 50 schools took part in the final of the competition. All contest participants receive gifts containing historical publications from the IPN, but also seymous gadgets. Each student also received a memorial diploma. The main prize for the winners, those who took the first place, is a trip to Brussels, while the teams who took place from the second to the fifth, together with the winners of the historical competition for the bar confederation for secondary schools and the winners of the Gorlicka Patriotic Song Competition came to Warsaw today. From this point I would like to thank Marshal Ryszard Terleck for a pleasant meeting with young people, with laureates, with their carers, and the winners of all competitions who have now come to Warsaw, I wish you a pleasant experience of your stay in the capital, but also very, very much congratulate you on the historical knowledge they possess and possess, each year learning in addition to these competitions. Thank you for this contribution of work, and I thank their carers that they also work with young people and develop knowledge of the history of our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u435	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! May 4th, the day of St. Floriana, the International Firefighter's Day is being celebrated. In Poland since 2003 it has been a celebration of both the State Fire Service and voluntary firefighters. On June 10th, the District Firefighter's Day celebrations will be held in Łomża and the flag will be given to the City Fire Department in Łomża. I would like to thank Mr Lech Szabłowski, chairman of the social committee of the flag foundation, for this valuable initiative, and Mr St. Brig. I congratulate Dionysius Krzyna, City Commandant of the State Fire Department, and wish you as little alarms and as many safe returns as possible. The break of May and June abounds in firefighters' celebrations. In Bialystok on May 21, the Regional Firefighter's Day celebrations took place. On 19 May I had the honour to attend the celebrations in Nowogrod, where there was also dedication, the giving of the banner and the celebration of the anniversary of the decade of the Volunteer Fire Service in Janków-Skarbów. On May 20 we celebrated the municipal Firefighter's Day in Friday, and on June 3rd we celebrated the centenary of the Volunteer Firefighter's Day in Zbilna. At this point I want to thank all the active firemen and those who have retired for the fact that often at risk of their own lives they have always been and are ready to save our lives. They protect us and our possessions from fire, they're the first on the scenes of road accidents, they help in natural disasters. We remember the lovely pictures of firefighters saving the cat trapped in the tree, but it happens that they are also called by us to remove the nests of dangerous hornets or wasps. They're always on guard so that the rest of society can work safely, travel and rest. I would also like to thank the parents of firefighters and firefighters for raising such brave people and their spouses for supporting their second half and allowing them to do this dangerous but extremely needed job. I salute the firemen who died in the service. My memory is ogre. Przemysław Piotrowski and obn. Mark Giro, who died in a Bialystok hall fire on May 25th last year. Hello to their memory. I also call on our fellow countrymen not to cause firemen to work by burning grass or by careless handling of fire near the forest. Let us remember that any fire can embrace vast areas, be difficult to control and end tragically. Let us not put our hands to their formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u437	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u438	Dear Marshal! High Seym! A few days ago, on 5 June, it was the anniversary of the death of Bronisław Bohemia - an outstanding athlete, the most-sided Polish skier of the interwar period, three times an Olympian, a tatherman, a mountain rescuer. Bronisław Czech was a twenty-four-time Polish ski champion. He has repeatedly participated in the world ski championships. The best results were achieved in the Norwegian combination. In 1927 he took fifth place in this competition, and 2 years later - fourth. In the 1928 Olympic Games he took the 10th place in the Norwegian combination, four years later he was seventh. He was also a three-time record holder of Poland in the length of the jump. In 1928 he jumped 60.5 m and 62.5 m and in 1929 in Zakopane - 63 m. The fact that he was able to dance on roller skis, i.e. create such a sequence of evolution on skis that they seemed to actually dance. From 1932 he was a ski coach, he led a ski school on Kasprowy Wierch. In addition to mountain sports, Bronisław Bohemia also played athletics and table tennis. He was a versatile man. He was riding a motorcycle, swimming on canoes, playing violin and accordion. Besides, he painted on paper, carved in wood, wrote poems. Since he was 16 years old, he painted on glass, mostly flower motifs. He was an extremely modest man. He didn't talk about his climbing achievements in the Tatra Mountains, and it wasn't until years later that he was a great dancer. After the outbreak of World War II, Bronisław Bohemia joined the conspiracy activity, he was a Tatra courier. On May 14, when he was painting in his house, the Gestapo came for him and was arrested. A month later, on 14 June, he was in the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz concentration camp. In the camp he received camp number 349 and assigned to Block 4. Involved in conspiracy activities, participated in the resistance organized by rtm. Witold Pilecki. He could save his life, but he did not accept the proposal to train young German skiers. He stayed in the concentration camp. Until spring 1941, he worked in a carpenter shop and then in a wood spoon factory. In 1942, he was assigned to work at the camp museum. That's where he painted and carved. In the spring of 1944, his health deteriorated greatly. He was hospitalized in Oświęcim, where he died of exhaustion on June 5, 1944. Bronisław Czech was an outstanding athlete. He was also a great patriot. He did not cooperate with the Germans, chose to stay in Auschwitz and died there. On the 74th anniversary of the death of this outstanding Pole, it is worth mentioning his sports merits. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u439	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I would like to mention women's rural organisations, which, more than 150 years ago, were called: associations of housewives were helping each other in farm work, in vessel rental activities, in organizing various celebrations. They collaborated with the Church, guard, other organizations in rural areas, cultivating national and Christian traditions. This year is the 100th anniversary of the hostess's adoption by the company of a different name: the circles of the country housewives. Why am I bringing this up? Well, your marshal, High Izbo, May 19th, so a few weeks ago, I had the honour and pleasure to take advantage of the invitation of the Village Housewives in Vijev. The president of this organization, Mrs Jolanta Sweeping, invited me to the beautiful 70th anniversary of the founding of a group of village hostesses in this beautiful village. The ceremony was preceded by Mass. in the church in Brenna, where you could hear the beautiful sermon of Fr. tryb. Andrzej Sotka. At the moment, the rural hostel circles are active in several areas. First of all, they raise, educate, organize recreation for children and young people in rural areas, develop various forms of entrepreneurship among women, activate various kinds of activities, and thus minimise unemployment in rural areas. They work on various types of aid schemes for agriculture or rationalise rural households, mainly where women carry out this production activity. But they are also known for their operationality when organizing various kinds of harvests at parish, municipal, voivodeship and district level, they continue to cooperate with the Catholic Church. This is also the case in the beautiful municipality of Wijewo. This day, May 19th, I could live in a joyful, almost family atmosphere. I could laugh when I watched Cabaret Beznazwy, who would surely be envied by choreography and scenery by many cabarets operating in large city centers. Cheerleaders 40+ Mon. But the grandmothers made me go crazy. The choreographic layout could satisfy the curiosity of many American basketball league breaks. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to Vijev, to a beautiful village where forests have their charm, and lakes provide clean water, and a good holiday in the sun. Madam President, I thank you once again for the invitation and, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary, I repeat my wishes. See you next year and as many attractions as possible in the coming days of this year 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u441	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that it is worth considering the state of Polish parliamentarianism. Today we have witnessed the punishment of one of our fellow Members in a very severe way, both in financial terms and in terms of its parliamentary activities. The Sejm Bureau considered that the penalty to be imposed on the Member was a ban on travel. This is, however, in my opinion, some relic of Peerel's thinking in which the passport was a good thing, which power could emit to those who liked it, and those who didn't like it, didn't get a passport. This is a very bad precedent, but he cannot be considered in isolation from what state, I repeat, is Polish parliamentarianism. Today we have once again seen this gigantic asymmetry towards parliamentarians. One more is allowed in this House, to be insulted, to be insulted, as was the case with this bleacher, one of my fellow Members, very important Members, screamed to the other side of the room: the mouths of traitors. There was no punishment for this, even though the Polish language and the basic requirements of culture make the thesis that it was at least non-cultural and certainly without the dignity of this House. Nevertheless, he received applause from the Law and Justice side. Well, I would like to say that a parliament in every normal country, a democratic parliament, is a place of polemics, and there is nothing to be offended about, polemics often malicious, often humorous, often actually quite aggressive or emotional. This is what happens in democratic parliaments around the world. Unfortunately, in Poland, one party in fear of discussing this room, having nothing to say, with no arguments, is replacing the argument with force, and Parliament is not. You are rightly proud of this, and we are all proud of it, and our entire House, our entire building is full of beautiful posters about 550 years of Polish parliamentarianism. This is certainly one of the most beautiful pages of Polish history - our parliamentarianism, but this Parliamentarianism assumes a debate, and in our Seym, the Seym of this term, the debate is as low as possible. What is more, there are completely unjustified microphone shut-offs, there are various regulatory tricks only so that people who have a different opinion than the majority in this Chamber cannot speak, are deprived of this voice, and are also mocked and insulted by the majority in this House, I will stress, the majority which is the legal majority, comes from elections and no one questions that. This great difference between the two sides of this House is also that we humbly accept the outcome of the elections. We say, yes, these elections you have won, you have the right to rule, you have the right to make laws in this Seym if there is a majority behind them, and of course there is. The problem is that if you lose the election, then you shout that it is a forgery, when you win the election, you think that you have the right to everything, and it is not, because one day, sooner or later, the majority will change in Poland, the verdict of the voters will be detrimental to you someday. And then what? Consider whether you want to be treated the same way in the future as you treat those who think differently today. But I think there's a giant fear of the truth behind all of this. You're afraid of the discussion because you're afraid of the truth that might arise in this discussion. Why are you afraid of discussion? Why don't you want to talk? Why do you think that the Members of the opposition must close their mouths and be insulted? This is unfortunately also part of Polish parliamentarianism, parliamentarianism of the Polish People's Republic, as well as parliamentarianism of sanation, in which the opposition was persecuted. It's the wrong way, and you shouldn't go that way. The Polish Sejm, I repeat, should be a place where the views of all Poles are reflected, because Poland is all of us, both those who voted for PiS, what we respect, but also those of most Poles who did not vote for PiS, because remember: most of you did not vote, but most of you will settle.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u443	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, today we need to address the issue of Poles in Lithuania again, and actually the subject of the scandalous behaviour of Marshal Karczewski, the Senate Marshal, against representatives of Poles in Lithuania during the Polish Forum in Toruń in April this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Government of Law and Justice has no prescription for Eastern policy has been known for a long time. The fact that he continues the line of treason in fact the interests of Poles, among others. in Lithuania, in Vilnius, we already know. But the new element which came during this term of the Sejm and which is implemented by these authorities is implemented by this government, is the division of Poles in Vilnius, is attacking Poles in Vilnius, is accusing Poles in Vilnius, it is simply insulting those who fight for their identity on the land of fathers, fighting against lituanization, who are descendants of Poles fighting for these rights for decades, hundreds of years. Mr. Marshal Karczewski went to the Polish Forum to lie accusations directed to the city councilwoman Mrs. Marshal Karczewski accused Mrs Cytacka, responding to her right criticism - I listened to these answers - some incorrect spending of money, money which supposedly came from a Polish taxpayer. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that the forum of parents of Polish schools, chaired by Mrs Cytacka, is a social organization and with it parents are putting everything out of their own pockets. The Polish taxpayer does not go to this organization. It's good for her to go. It is good that support can be found for this organization fighting for the rights of Poles in Vilnius, for the most important rights of Poles in Vilnius, Lithuania, i.e. educational rights, so threatened today. But this is just one dimension of this scandal that you allowed Marshal Karczewski to continue the shoe line, continuing the line of complete lack of sensitivity to the needs of Poles in the East in the name of the insane, obsessive ideology of Giedroyciowska, which, moreover, Marshal Karczewski maintained in the same statement. For what did the prominent representative of the power camp say? He said that today we are implementing the option of warming relations with Lithuania and we will see what comes out of it. If we fail, we will freeze them again, in the context of, of course, the fight for the rights of Poles constantly discriminated against in the Republic of Lithuania. These words by Marshal Karczewski are an absolute manifesto of geopolitical stupidity and misunderstanding of what Polish Eastern policy is, politics towards Lithuania - has been unsuccessful for 27 years. Because for exactly 27 years Poland has been trying to warm up relations with Lithuania, and this is a priority for the next gyedroycism of governments in Warsaw, and the Lithuanian Republic as its priority, more important than good relations with Poland, sees the libertarianization of our minority in Vilnius. The next steps that are being taken are steps of Warsaw diplomacy - because I will not call it Polish diplomacy - in Vilnius in the person of the new ambassador Mrs Doroszewska. Ms Doroszewska admitted last year that extremely unfavourable for Polish children and Polish parents... Ms Doroszewska, from the nomination of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that changes in education adversely for Poles in Vilnius, for children who now have to take more difficult exams and who are harder to pass these exams, are changes acceptable. This is an outrage, this is a betrayal of our basic national interests. Recently, Mrs Doroszewska tried to interfere with the elections of the Polish Union authorities in Lithuania, tried to set it manually, tried to set it in angles. This is an outrage, this is unbelievable. Unfortunately, Poles in Vilnius still have to wait. I wanted to apologize to them on behalf of these Polish parliamentarians, [[♪ The bell ♪]] National and patriotic parliamentarians who do not agree to such treatment of Poles in Lithuania by the authorities of the Republic of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u445	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, the media have heard about planned very radical and profound changes in the possibility of hiring foreigners in Poland. In one of the articles we read, among others.: Negotiations between labour, home affairs and investment and development departments on migration strategies are coming to an end. Its part is to amend the Labour Market Institutions Act. It includes instruments to facilitate the employment of visitors from outside the Union - betrays to the newspaper Deputy Minister of Labour Stanisław Szwed. Further, we learn from the same article that in general the idea is to radically extend work permits for foreigners, and even in some cases to abolish such a requirement. It's supposed to be about, for example. spouses of persons who already have such permits. Licences are to be renewed from six months to one year for citizens of the former Soviet Union and for nationals of other countries outside the Union, for example. 3 to 5 years old. It also reveals itself in an open way and without any doubt that there are two objectives of this type of policy. The first objective is to eliminate problems related to the emerging shortage of hands for work in Poland, and the second goal, and this is something absolutely unprecedented, unimaginable, is to improve the demographic situation in Poland, even in the face of the emerging serious crisis of the pension system. High Izbo, if this is true, it is not only scandalous but even anti-Polish and anti-national. High Izbo! There are two ways to improve the labour market situation, i.e. supplement these shortages, and fight the demographic disaster. The first way is to radically reduce taxes and radically change the pension system in such a way that young Poles want to stay in Poland, want to work here, earn money and start families. This is the first natural and obvious way. The second way it seems is that the government is proposing in connection with these plans, it's just a national change, it's a decoy, it's a switch. Poles on representatives of foreign nationalities. Instead of going through reforms that are as possible in Poland without major difficulties, instead of going through radical and necessary reforms, the government simply wants to convert millions more, because it is already in millions that counts, Poles to representatives of foreign countries. How can such reforms be carried out? If a Pole earns a living e.g. One and a half thousand. zł, it's actually his salary of 2.5 thousand. - $1,000. is immediately taken away by taxes and parataxes. If he gets $2.5,000, his salary is actually approx. $4.5,000, where again $2,000. - almost half - are taken by various forms of taxes and parataxes. As for the pension system, it is a complete disaster and cannot be saved. He's actually one big financial pyramid. Worse still, this system is so designed that - I'm sorry for the word - you have to be an idiot to have children. He's completely demotivating to have children. Even if someone thinks that this system should stay, one small change could change this situation. This could be a change, for example. on the fact that working people, working parents' children pay contributions on the same terms as now and at the same amount as now, but - attention - their contributions flow into parents' and parents' accounts only. Then having children, especially more children, would have a radical effect on pension levels, especially in the case of women who gave birth to three or four children, which is what it takes to replace generations, more than average. With such a small change, I repeat, we could radically change this system and create pressure or need or strong motivation to have children. Thus, thanks to these arrangements concerning tax reduction and the change of the pension system, Poles could be aroused by the need to stay in the country, have children and have families in Poland. But the government prefers to go on the path of nationalization, and this is an absolute scandal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u447	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u448	Parliamentary Statement on the 70th anniversary of the death of Lt. Wenceslas Kitchen ps. Calm down. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Wacław Kuchnio was born on 23 March 1917 in Ryki, in the northern part of Małopolska Sandomierzna. He was from a large family of peasants. After graduating, he helped his parents on the farm. He served as a bomb squad in the years 1936-1938 as a bomb squad in 15. The infantry regiment in Dęblin. During the September campaign, he fought with his regiment in the army's composition. At the beginning of October 1939, after his defeat, he returned home to a military underground. He became a soldier of the Armed Forces Union of the National Riviera. In the summer of 1943, he completed a post-office course organized by the lieutenant. Mariana Bernaciaka, Orlika. Since the autumn of 1943, he has been an aide to Orlika. He was in charge of battle operations on several occasions on his own. In the summer of 1944, he fought with the German invader in the area of Opole Lublin. After the end of the fights with his unit he tried to get to Warsaw, but in the vicinity of Garwolin he was stopped by the Soviets. He made an effective attempt to escape, after which he returned to the Roar. He participated in many significant clashes, among others. in battles against CWB and UB: April 13, 1945 - the winning battle in Wola Zadybska, 24 May 1945 - the largest guerrilla battle in the Stocki Forest. He was once again a platoon commander, becoming an informal deputy to Orlik. After his death, he became the commandant for the diversion of Garwolin's circuit. In March 1947, he decided to end the fight and appeared with his soldiers. In April he left with his wife - Zofia Kuchnio, a former liaison and nurse of the branch of Orlika, in the vicinity of Wałbrzych and then to Podwarszawska Joy. He was under surveillance at all times. On June 6, 1948, he managed to escape from a raid in Joy, during which he shot an UB officer and wounded the other one badly. On June 8, 1948, he and his wife committed suicide. The bodies of the lieutenant and his spouses were exported by UB employees to an unknown location. In 2007, posthumously lieutenant. Wacław Kuchnio was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-06-07-sejm-63-3.u449	On this we exhausted the agenda of the 63rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 63rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 64th session of the Sejm, convened on 14 and 15 June 2018, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 22 min 13]]
