ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Schreiber, Mr Weber, Mr Marchewka and Mr King to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Rafał Weber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Łukasz Schreiber and Arkadiusz Carrot. I consider the minutes of the 60th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Civil Code Act and certain other laws, - registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long, - the rules for obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities, - amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs, - the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the French Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Paris on 14 February 1989, - the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Polish People's Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 19 May 1987, - the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Poland on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up at Warsaw on 4 June 1992, - the termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 7 September 1992. The reports shall be printed as follows: 2321, 2344, 2372, 2371, 2381, 2382, 2383 and 2384. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Health Commission submitted an additional report on the government draft law amending the Act on State Medical Rescue and some other laws. This is print number 2245-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The government asked the Minister of Infrastructure to provide information on the state of the Polish railway and the investments planned on it. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda for this information. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on Government Administration Departments and the Act on Infrastructure for Spatial Information. This is print number 2392. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Members have made formal submissions. Member Robert Winnicki, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm applying for a brief 10-minute recess. Mr. Marshal, we urgently need to respond because they demand clarification of the words of Minister Chaputowicz, who, in an interview with Le Figaro last week, said that we adopted 2700 immigrants sent by Western Europe, but they do not want to stay in Poland where the living rate is too low. These words, which show that the Foreign Minister is talking about some admission of immigrants, contrary to what the government has been saying for many years, simply demand an explanation in the High House. I do not know whether this is also related to what the inhabitants of Warsaw signal, for example, is about an increasing number of foreigners coming from outside Europe, from outside the European cultural circle, but we are dealing with this situation. I find this appalling and that Minister Chaputowicz should be called to the Sejm as a matter of urgency in order to provide explanations in connection with this interview. Besides, in this interview we are dealing with other wordings, among others. such as the fact that Poland will not pursue Christian values within the European Union. In this interview for Le Figaro, there are various shocking things that demand clarification because they are completely contrary to what the government declares. That is why I am applying for a recess, asking the Senior Convention to lean on this case and urgently call the Foreign Minister to the meeting of the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u3	Thank you. I remind you that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings. These are matters more suitable for consideration by the Sejm committee and I would ask the Member to make such proposals there. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have on behalf of our club a written request also for a break and the convening of the Senior Convention, this is an article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 because in those days the 78th anniversary of the terrible crime on Polish officers who were imprisoned in the camps in Starobielsk, Ostaszkow, the crime we call Katyn's murder. During this break, we would like the Senior Convention to complete the agenda of the House's proceedings about the information of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, how the Polish government celebrated the 78th anniversary of this terrible, most horrible crime committed during World War II on Polish officers. Was there a delegation in Katyn? Who led this delegation? Was it a delegation, or was someone in charge of the minister's rank? How about one of the many deputy prime ministers? This is how we should honor and honor the memory of more than 20,000. Polish officers murdered among others Katyn. [[Applause]] But since I'm afraid that this most patriotic government has forgotten this anniversary, I would like to ask that we celebrate the memory of the murdered 78 years ago, among others. in Katyn, Polish officers. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] [[Voice from the room: Błaszczak, end the conversation.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u5	Thank you. Minister, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński wanted to speak on this. At the same time, I inform you and your fellow Members that such requests on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure should be submitted on the eve of the meeting by noon. 21. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I see that the Member is in a good mood because he is smiling, happy. However, I would suggest that the Katyn case should not lead to such speeches. It's a ceremony. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Yeah, let's hear how you're acting about the Katyn case. It was also celebrated on the spot. The Polish delegation was chaired by the Polish ambassador. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Really high rank.]] For obvious reasons, the rank of this delegation was as I said. On the other hand, the Polish government... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Why?]] [[And you were? Did someone come from your house?]] This is how dialogue looks with you even on such serious topics, on topics maybe the most important in Polish history. [[Voice from the room: Please tell Kaczyński.]] The Member has just joined this dialogue. But I'd also like to inform you that I've just come back, I've opened... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Publicly offended.]] This is a conversation with you in the Polish Parliament. [[Spare me the shame.]] I would like to inform the High House that the Polish government and institutions that study Polish memory and are connected with the Polish government... [[They ignored Katyn.]] ... e.g. The centre of Polish-Russian dialogue, the IPN, the Polish Army Museum, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, organized an international conference devoted to Katyn's crime. It's the 75th anniversary of this crime. This conference takes place at the Royal Castle, in the most worthy place it can take place, is international, among others. with representatives of the memorial, including Polish, German, British and European scientists. This is a worthy celebration, because we have a duty to continue investigating the Katyn crime. As you know, we do not know everything yet, e.g. We do not know the Belarusian list, and the scientific work is ongoing. It is good that this kind of serious scientific reflection at the Royal Castle is taking place. So that contrary to what you say, Mr President, the Polish government takes these issues seriously. [[Voice from the hall: He didn't say anything wrong.]] Therefore, there is such a rank of Polish representatives in the Katyn forest in the current political situation. That's why we have such serious and important conferences. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] I would very much ask you not to play this case on current political issues, because it's outrageous what you're doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Tell that to Kaczyński.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u7	I remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these formal requests, if the marshal so requests, should be made in writing. Here Mr Protasiewicz made this formal application in writing. Do the gentlemen who are notified have written requests? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: For the president of the club.]] [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I request the adjournment of the sitting until 8 May this year. because of the unheard of earlier - which seems strange - the chaos you proposed during this meeting. Well, just now, as Members of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, we have been informed that immediately after the votes, there will be a further investigation of the absurd law on forcing the President of the Council of Ministers to publish decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which you write that these are not judgments of the Tribunal. [[You demanded it. You don't want any more?]] But at the same time, immediately after the votes in this Chamber, there will be a first reading of the project, which concerns the matter of matters covered by the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, namely the law in which you take the powers that Mr Ziobrze has fought so hard for, and you want to give them to the President of the Republic. Moreover, you have introduced a third law in parallel, two laws relating to the Supreme Court, in which the laws contain contradictory provisions. Now you're suggesting that, in such chaos, we discuss the rules of the system. But the most important thing, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo: at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, one of the Members of Law and Justice declared that the PiS Members were forced by international forces to relinquish sovereignty, to present draft laws that really violate the interests of the Polish justice system. This report of this alleged blackmail, which has been applied to Members of the current majority, needs clarification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why there is a request to postpone this meeting. [[Applause]] [[If I didn't know you, I'd think it was funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u9	Thank you. Thank you very much. There's a motion. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I made it.]] Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish also has a written request. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing for a recess on behalf of my club. We would like Prime Minister Gliński to apologize for his insulting words to President Protasiewicz during this break. What's wrong with asking for a minute of silence? [[Applause]] What's wrong with saying grace? Eternal rest? What's wrong with mentioning Mednoje, listing other places of execution? [[Voice from the room: What kind of voices?]] Ostashkova, Miednoje, Starobielska. What is wrong with mentioning places of Katyn's murder and the memory of Polish officers, officers of the Polish Army, police, Polish intellectual elite who died in Katyn? [[Applause]] He didn't charge you with anything. He went out to this pulpit, asked if high-ranking representatives of the Polish government on the 78th anniversary of the Katyn murder went to Katyn and celebrated the memory of our fellow countrymen, and asked for a minute of silence. If you see bad will in this, how can we build a national community, what did you call for yesterday? There is no evil will in the question and desire to commemorate in any way the victims of banditism, the victims of Katyn's murder. [[Hypocrite.]] We will remember Katyn, and we ask you to remember with us. [[Applause]] [[What did you do?]] [[What do we do, marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u11	Prime Minister Gliński wants to speak again. There you go. [[Applause]] [[Give me the prize.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Chairman... [[Voice from the Chamber: The Chairman is Protasiewicz.]] ...you're progressing to provocative and insolent actions. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[But what are you talking about?]] [[It hurts, it hurts, it hurts.]] You know very well that Mr Protasiewicz's speech concerned the fact that Polish foreign policy was badly conducted. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: The question was.]] Mr Protasiewicz suggested that the rank of Polish representatives in Katyn is inappropriate. I answered. I said how the Polish government worships this anniversary and that the rank is appropriate. [[Voice from the room: It's not...]] But I actually think that in this atmosphere and as long as you want to play such a serious political issue, this discussion makes no sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u13	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is actually only one formal request: a request to postpone until May 8th... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I have also filed a formal application.]] [[Voice from the room: One more motion.]] ...because the other proposals do not concern the agenda. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I have filed a formal motion.]] I also inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a formal application must first be submitted in writing before notification. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, but I have a formal application in writing.]] When I receive this request, I will make a decision. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, but I have a formal application in writing.]] Good. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But he is...]] I request this request in writing. I will inform you about this later, as soon as I get to know it. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: At the same time, we are discussing two points... The one that concerns the justice commission...]] Right now, ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna be... [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz:...the committee and the first reading of the bill.]] Member, please leave the stand. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But... question.]] You're interfering with the proceedings. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, we have a committee of justice...]] [[But why could other clubs and ours not?]] At the moment, a formal request has been made for the adjournment of the sitting and I will put this request to the vote. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, we have a committee of justice, the first reading of the bill.]] Madame, I ask you to leave the podium. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But please take into account my formal request. We have...]] Member, please leave the stand. [[It was supposed to be in writing, it's in writing, and what?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: They were to be written and written. We have a justice commission...]] Madam President, in the rule of law, I ask you again to leave the stand. [[Voice from the room: But there is a conclusion.]] [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, this is a procedural matter.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're more likely to consider the Sejm Board applications than you are considering the formal ones.]] [[Voice from the room: One board.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are interfering with the deliberations of the Sejm and the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: But the justification of the motion...]] A formal request has been made for the adjournment of the sitting and I will put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adjourning the sitting until 8 May, as in the proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 157 votes against - 251 and three Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. This is print number 2389. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for this draft. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I have made a formal request for the Convention. At the same time, we have the first reading of the bill and the commission.]] I would like to inform you, following a preliminary reading of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz's letter, that this is not a formal proposal... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I want to complete it.]] ...only this is a request for suspension of the committee, so in the rule of law. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: At the same time we have also the first reading of the bill, and the commission. We need a convention.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 156, with 27. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. This is print number 2393. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for this draft. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the order. I would remind you that in this case too, voting is not preceded by debate or questioning. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of completing the agenda by this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 230 votes against - 158 and 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, I am filing a formal motion to convene the Convention because of the fact that...]] Member, please don't disturb me. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I complete it. You're welcome.]] [[Voice from the room: Kara.]] Member, please take your place... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There will be a first meeting... of the bill and a committee of justice...]] [[That's how we get on committees every time.]] ...regime in the parliamentary benches. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights will submit a report on the draft law amending the law... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion!]] ... Provisions introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and a law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. At the meeting of the Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for this draft. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Its adoption will mean the Sejm's consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We are now entering the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 160, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. At its 60th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the reports of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the European Parliament and the Immunity Committee on: - the request by the plaintiff of David Jackiewicz of 12 September 2017 for the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, - the request of the private prosecutor Maciej Wąsik for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Richard Petru, - the application by the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin to allow the Sejm to arrest and temporarily arrest Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. These are printers 2047, 2173 and 2306 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle on the discussion of the information for the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the July-December 2017 period. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: May I justify it, Mr Marshal?]] The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on government draft laws on termination of international agreements. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the actions taken by former Prime Minister Beata Szydło, which have launched on an unprecedented scale the payment of allowances to the remuneration of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and others in the form of bonuses, and the reasons and circumstances for the reconstruction of the government and the reduction of the number of vice-ministers, together with the announced transfer of Undersecretaries of State, members of the political corps to a group of civil servants. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Formal conclusion!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u14	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 13, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 16, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 4:30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 17, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 18, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18, - Senior policy - h.m. 18, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 18, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 20. Communication on the meetings of the teams. Today, the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Earth tennis - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Layer Property Rights - hour 18, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization of Hospitals and Medical Centres - hour 18, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Patients' rights and Parliamentary Group for solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 6:30. And one last announcement. We kindly invite you to the opening of the exhibition "Yes Pays Poland - Henryk Sławik" today, 11 April 2018, at 3 p.m. 11. The exhibition will be opened on the first floor in the C-D building. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u15	We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. Law on the system of common courts and the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court (print No 2389). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Act of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. We propose to introduce provisions which provide for: A two-step consultation procedure for the dismissal of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts, involving not only the National Judicial Council, but also the College of the Court. In accordance with the new procedure, the Minister of Justice shall first consult the College of the Court and, if this is negative, shall address the National Judicial Council. This may refuse to agree on the same principles as in the current legislation, i.e. by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. The objective criteria of the Court of Justice and the important social interest as a basis for the judge's consent to further judgment after the age of 65 - for the consistency of the system, similar criteria are introduced in the Law on the Supreme Court - as well as the introduction of an appeal procedure against the order to refuse consent. The introduction of such criteria - similar to those in the UK or French system - should be considered positive. The introduction of an appeal procedure against the President's order to refuse consent should be positively assessed. The provision was designed in such a way that the National Judicial Council could judge only whether the President of the Republic of Poland correctly applied the statutory criteria and also so that the referral of the case for retrial could take place when the National Court of Justice adopted a resolution by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Granting the power to express this consent to the President of the Republic of Poland in place of the Minister of Justice. Given that it is up to the President of the Republic of Poland to uphold the Constitution - including the independence of courts and the independence of courts - it is this body that seems more appropriate to take decisions in this regard. This is all the more so because the appointment of judges is the prerogative of the President - Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of Granting the President of the Republic of Poland in place of the Minister of Justice also in the field of appointment of assesors. In this respect, the powers of the Minister of Justice are exclusively ceremonial - the appointment of the assessors takes place on the basis of a list of the results of the judge's examination pursuant to the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this respect, however, they maintain their comments on point 3 which are proposed in the draft law. The delegation of this competence to the President of the Republic of Poland in place of the Minister of Justice does not substantially change the functioning of the judiciary. Equalising the standard age of retirement to 65 for judges of men and women - leaving women the choice and early retirement at the age of 60, regardless of the length of work. The proposed solution assumes that women's judges will be given the right to choose: at the age of 60, they will be able to retire regardless of their internship or remain in office until they reach 65, just as men will. This is in line with the article. 69 § 2, which allows for early retirement after working a certain number of years at the age of 55 for women and 60 for men. The proposed amendment is based on the construction of the Article. 37 § 5 of the Law on the Supreme Court, which entered into force on 3 April 2008, so this law has already entered into force. The entry into force of the proposed law does not entail financial consequences for the state budget and budgets of local government units. This project has a positive social impact, there are positive social responses, especially to this duality in relation to the dismissal of the Presidents of the Courts, and, as far as women of judges are concerned - with many of us after the discussion - there is satisfaction in the environment that women, of course, those who will want, can work until 65 years of age without submitting a special request in this case. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is in line with European Union law. The relevant opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office are at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u17	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The example of recent weeks, namely, giving justice to a man who spent the best years of his life in prison, clearly shows how much harm he could have done to his citizens. This is a screaming example of pathology nurtured until recently. This is one of many examples of lack of competence and sensitivity on the part of those who, on behalf of society, are to be the backbone of these values. Practically every month of the rule of law and justice is a step towards restoring the role of justice that citizens expect of it. It's a difficult road and it's hard to even tell how long we're still going to have to march towards a full recovery of justice. However, we do not cease in these efforts. We have committed to judicial reform and we are consistently implementing this project. Now as Members of the Parliamentary Club, we have tabled a bill which is a democratic package for the judiciary. To date, the regulations introduced in this term of office fully guarantee the rule of law and implement the constitutional principle of division and balance between the different authorities. They meet European standards in the area of justice, and their counterparts can be found in the legislation of many European Union countries with established democratic traditions. In this project we propose further changes aimed at improving the quality of the Polish judiciary. Mechanisms such as a two-step consultation procedure when the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the courts are dismissed, or objective criteria of the interest of the judiciary and an important social interest as a basis for the President of the Republic of Poland's consent to further judgment by the judge after the age of 65 are the main pillars of this democratic package for the judiciary. In a project on which the High Chamber is about to begin work, the President is also granted the authority to appoint asses. Another element is equalizing the standard age of retirement to 65 for judges of women and men, but leaving judges of women to choose. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is another step to improve the functioning of the justice system. In the programme of our governments, we promised Poles effective control mechanisms to prevent the separation of the various links of justice from its role as a servant towards society. We keep our words to the Poles and Poles, we are consistently pursuing the reform of the justice system. We also improve our own solutions so that Polish courts act as efficiently as possible, so that the citizens of the Republic feel safe in their own country, so that they are sure that when they go to court, they go for justice and not just for often unfair sentences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u19	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Boris Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which has been tabled by Members of the current parliamentary majority, is once again mistakenly called any reform. There has been, no, and there will be no reform of the justice system as long as populists are responsible for the justice system, people who put their own political interests ahead of the social interest, above all, in order for the courts to exercise control over politicians and not the politicians over courts. Well, ladies and gentlemen, once again, you're putting something that is just a smokescreen. No one other than your Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, the Member and the Head of one of your groups, which is part of your united pseudo-legality, has dismissed the very well-functioning presidents and vice-presidents from the Polish courts. If someone, like my previous speaker, in a hypocritical and manipulative manner uses the tragedy of an unjustly accused man to justify an attack on justice, it shows how cynical and hypocritical you are in your actions. Well, you created a mechanism for the absolute influence of politicians on the justice system, threw out well-working presidents and vice-presidents, replacing them with often mediocre individuals famous for disciplinary proceedings. This bill doesn't fix anything. It's just the soaping of the eyes. Do you want to convince the public that this pseudo-National Judicial Council will object to those who sent their nominations there? Are you trying to tell us that this bill will result in independent supervision of the courts? What it looks like to understand your independence, you can see very clearly in the processes that take place in Krakow, where the state apparatus was involved, the prosecution's case which, in my view, is exclusively the private revenge of one of your government's ministers. You talk about democratisation, while the facts contradict each other. Please note what happened to the sleep. Igor Stachowiak. See how your state apparatus wanted to judge, instead of an independent court and an independent judge, Sebastian K. of Oświęcim only because he had bad luck and on his way there appeared a rushing column of the then prime minister. And you scumbags teach Poles about democratisation of justice? Lying, hypocritical, false. The President of the Republic of Poland has no constitutional authority to verify the court, the judges. What you're proposing is really the verification of the judges by the executive authority. I wonder how the President of the Republic will behave when he is asked by the Supreme Court judges to continue their mission, using their experience and competence. If they are judges who have proven that the President of the Republic of Poland has broken the Constitution, pardoning those who are wrongfully convicted, your party colleagues, do you count on an objective judgment by the President of the Republic? This bill is a fiction, this bill is another eye soap, this law is supposed to pretend you're reforming anything. What your reforms look like, you can see in the so-called. The Constitutional Court. The judges of the doubles, the tribunal, which acts in a slow way, the trips of your parliamentarians to the functionary judges and the most important thing: these constant meetings among politicians. This is what you think of the independent Constitutional Court. You've done the same thing with the National Judicial Council, and you're going to do the same thing with the Supreme Court. This bill is good for basketball. There is no justice reform and there will be no justice reform, which is why on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club I am applying for rejection of the bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u21	Mr President, you have shown incompetence and lack of discernment in the work of the Sejm. [[What kind of assessment is that?]] This request concerns a different printing process. We're now working on the 2389 print project. It's about something else. [[That'll be all...]] You can have that print. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Now, on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club, 15 votes Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: corrected, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present a draft law on the system of common courts and the law on the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I am wondering because if we look at this law from the point of view that we want to take a step backwards to smooth the dispute with the European Union, it could somehow be acceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u23	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Mr Budka, I still have an invalid... [[Why?]] Well, it doesn't concern... We are in the middle of a first reading, Mr President. Why don't you guys get some work done and... [[You don't teach me, okay?]] We're in the middle of a first reading, not a second reading. This print isn't important. [[Voice from the room: But it can be verbally.]] You're welcome. [[The envoy gave an oral report, didn't he?]] But that's not... Wait a minute, but why are you taking this? [[Voice from the room: We'll fix it.]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: But at first reading you can orally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u24	May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u25	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u26	Well, there are certainly two fundamental changes in the right direction, i.e. the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts through the opinion or college of the court or the National Council of Courts, also in terms of terms of terms and retirement age. But I have this basic question: What about these changes do citizens have again? For once in every bill, I ask you what citizens get out of it. Citizens don't have exactly that, ladies and gentlemen, nothing. Retired state. The judge must present a health certificate, a simple health certificate, which he presents once in his life from the application to this. And I will give examples, as Mr Budka has presented here, of the various things that are dying from shops. Let's evaluate some parts from the drill. It's not like a healthy judge took it, but he must have had some sort of disorder. Therefore, the judge should be psychiatricly-psychologically tested and these studies should be periodic. [[Applause]] If a police officer is being investigated, why shouldn't a judge be examined, and not just the Supreme Court, but all the courts? All officers should be examined. [[Applause]] So do we, ladies and gentlemen. [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I read here the opinion of BAS and here it says: the state of European Union law in matters covered by the bill. Here are some points listed. One of the points, Art. The second paragraph of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states: everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing of his case within a reasonable period of time by an independent and impartial court previously established by the law. Everyone has the opportunity to obtain legal advice, the assistance of defenders and representatives. A horse with a row of those who find even one comma here, one letter on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the situation that we have reached with all the laws. In this sense, Mr Budka was right that we cannot create a wrong law and then twist this wrong law one way or the other so that it somehow fits our concept. The law, which has been amended, from the law on the prosecutor's office to the law on the Supreme Court, through all the indirect laws that were, unfortunately, do not give anything to normal citizens. These citizens continue to walk in courts in individual county cities, continue to complain about the prosecutions, continue to complain about the courts. Briefly, let me give you a simple example. A boy at the age of 37, arrested in a VAT scandal - by the way, the family says it's not true, but I don't want to judge - he gets a stroke, stops seeing it in one eye, sees it within 30% And that's the opinion of the penitentiary, and on the other hand, because of mechanical damage, he can't see anymore. He's got three kids. Ladies and gentlemen, the D.A. is keeping him in a penitentiary. So what I'm saying is, we're gonna let him go blind? Three kids? What's the big deal here... what's the big deal here for people? And those 15-, 20-year homicide convictions - the last time I asked about it - are also very questionable. Do we have anything in these laws on this? In any - and in those in the first state, and in those we change. [[Applause]] We got nothing. We got nothing. A complaint system is needed in Poland. That's not what you're talking about. In the complaint system, NGOs must be involved, there must be a social factor, and they should address applications to disciplinary courts. Then the disciplinary court in the Supreme Court will have a sense of existence, otherwise it will have no meaning of existence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u27	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Poselski Club, the Modern Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You would like the word "compromis" to be changed in this Chamber today, but the word "compromise" is more appropriate. Even for the standards of lawlessness that you've been used to for the past two and a half years, today you really are breaking records. You are literally updating several articles of the bill, and at the same time you are breaking several articles of the Constitution at the same time. On the basis of this novel, the Minister of Justice will continue to be able to dismiss the Presidents of the courts on the basis of very general grounds such as: failure to continue to serve for the sake of the good of the judiciary. That is to be a request to the college of the court, but this opinion will not be binding. The National Judicial Council will appear to be able to oppose this, but only by qualified majority. Two-thirds of the votes. Incidentally, this is a truly astonishing lack of confidence in those political nominates that you have chosen just now to break the Constitution to the KRS. This is not really any dam before completely arbitrary, politically-based action by the Minister of Justice to dismiss the governors of the courts. After all, the National Judicial Council is filled by your nominates, i.e. or people who mostly owe the promotions of life to the Minister of Justice, or people who are distinguished by not perfect knowledge or professional experience, but by knowing the Minister of Justice. It is also inconsistent with the constitution to entrust the President with the power to agree on who can take a judge's position after a certain age of life. This means no less, nothing more, that the active law and justice policies of President Andrzej Duda will decide who will be the judge in Poland and who will not be the judge. It should also be pointed out that such a presidential action as agreeing to serve as a judge is not a presidential prerogative and will therefore need a countersignation of the next policy of the Prime Minister's PiS. To put it simply, the change from the Minister of Justice to President Andrzej Duda, who will agree to serve as a judge after a certain age, is no change. Because it's really no difference what the PiS politician decides about it - whether it's Zbigniew Ziobro or Andrzej Duda. In fact, at the very end, Mr Kaczyński will decide on the composition of the Supreme Court and on the seat of the Presidents of the Courts. What you're suggesting is actually putting a fire alarm on the still smoking ruins of justice, on the ruins of the justice system that remain after your passage. These changes will not undo the damage in any way. The presidents of the courts have already been removed from these positions, so what you're proposing is a security system, but for the future. You are developing a vision of compromise in connection with this amendment. What compromise? Will it be a compromise between Mr Kaczyński and the President of the Republic of Poland if they differ in their views on any court president or Supreme Court judge? These solutions are not only contrary to the Constitution, but also do not follow the recommendations of the European Commission. It must be pointed out that it is really a test of your credibility, whether you want a real agreement with the European Commission, whether you want to end this cold war with Brussels, or whether you still want to jeopardize the interests of millions of Poles and Poles, endanger the interests of Poland. Of course, we all want Poland to avoid the threat of sanctions and the loss of money from European funds. Of course, if there's a threat of sanctions from the article. 7 can be blocked, most likely by Hungary, but we must be aware that the threat of losing aid in the next EU budget is really still real because you and the European Commission are playing dandelion. You do not propose real changes, such as the removal of understudyes from the Constitutional Tribunal and the taking of vows from properly elected judges, the withdrawal of the politicisation of the National Judicial Council, the fact that judges will elect judges to this board, and the withdrawal of the purge you wish to carry out in the Supreme Court. Because it is in your hands that these changes are in the hands of the PiS politicians who have devastated the standards of the rule of law in Poland that there are all the tools to protect our country from the loss of billions of euros of support. And for that, it takes three steps. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern motion to reject this bill, seemingly making any changes [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a dimension... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about rejecting this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u29	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, European Union of Democrats and PSL, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have reached the wall in the revolution you have been leading for two years, in the changes that, as Mr Jachnik rightly said, do not serve the citizens in any way, you have reached the wall in our relations with the European Union. And now you're trying to wash your eyes. In fact, you're playing balls because this change doesn't change the powers of our compatriots to prosecute justice in any way. There is nothing about lower judicial costs, there is nothing about faster proceedings before courts, there is nothing about greater involvement of the social side in supervising the work of courts and judges. There is no general participation of jurors, nor is there a judge of peace in any of your proposals in all the laws you present and are constantly changing - how many times has the Constitutional Court Act been amended, how many times have the laws on the KRS and the Supreme Court been amended. Today we are faced with the threat, not from the mistakes of opposition or our fellow countrymen, but from your bad changes in the justice system, your bad changes, which led to our position being the lowest in Poland's relations with the European Union in the history of our membership in the European Union, and in fact European funds for Polish entrepreneurs, for small homelands, for farmers, for all who have been enjoying participation in the common market and the economic market for more than 10 years, with freedom of movement, i.e. our subjective functioning in the European Union and the strong position of Poland. This has just been actually threatened by your indolence, by your unpreparedness and by your dislike for any dialogue. Today you want to equalize the retirement age of men and women. During the debates on these laws, we talked about the fact that this is age discrimination. The retirement age 90 years ago - in the Second Republic, to which you refer so often - when the average life expectancy was 20 years shorter than now - was 75 years for judges, and you introduce 60 and 65 years: 60 for women, 65 for men. Now you're evening it up, but those women who are gone are no longer a judge, they're no longer a judge, they're no longer a professional. You're amending the law and your opinion on the election of the presidents and vice-presidents of the courts, only that the Minister of Justice exchanged about 140 presidents and vice-presidents, which is what you wanted, you've already done. You can't bring back those you've called back, these changes do not lead to this in any way. You are introducing new conditions regarding the overriding social objective or the objective of efficiency, in general, the functioning of the justice system. These conditions were already introduced in 1928 in Sanitation Poland, symbolized by the Brest court and the dismissal of judges who did not wish to submit to the Sanitation Authority. The same conditions were used in the Act introduced at that time. They were and functioned also after the war, they were abolished only in 1950. These aren't good patterns to go back to. Nor do I see the intention of telling the truth, because in the explanatory memorandum of this law at the outset you write that everything you did was very good, it was great and it was in line with European law, and you do not do it for the needs of Brussels. So you don't even want to tell the truth that you're trying badly to find a way to resolve the conflict with the European Union. It doesn't work out, because this soaping of the eyes, this ball game is simply not something that we think will be in any way credible to the European Union. This is your great negligence. We will never allow funds for Poland from the European Union to be cut off so that they are frozen so that any sanctions by your misguided actions are applied to Poland. We're gonna make sure it never happens. But you need to learn the lesson, and we don't see you drawing the conclusions. You're making a bill that's supposed to be so beautiful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with a vision of wanting to change, but we can't see that change.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u31	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u32	On behalf of the club, we request that this be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u33	Thank you very much. I'm opening a list... which means I'm closing a list of people who have been asked questions. I set the question time for 1 minute, of course. [[Voice from the room: Of course!]] The first question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: 30 seconds, maybe?]] No, I have a good heart, one minute. [[Voice from the room: Oh, the human master.]] [[Voice from the room: How much?]] One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u34	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Law and Justice - here, you can see, especially today - gained 18% in the election. This is not a constitutional majority, and it is certainly not the majority that allows you to enter judicial authority with shoes. You will not judge Poles. Ziobro was passionately cutting out all the presidents. [[Minister Ziobro.]] Within 184 days of the entry into force of the transitional provisions, 130 judges have lost their position. That's what Minister Ziobra looked like. And how did the President of the Solidarna Polska party dismiss the judges? How? By fax, by e-mail, without giving any reason, violating the authority of the judge, violating the personal interests of the judge. And he's gonna answer for that. Not only will he answer to the court, but he will also answer when we come to power. Ladies and gentlemen, in Warsaw and around Warsaw, in Wołomin, in Grodzisk, and other courts, 22 people were dismissed... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u35	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u36	...and the daughter of law and justice policy became vice president of the court. This is an outrage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time. Thank you, ma'am. This is Earth. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts and the Supreme Court are mere theatres played before the European Commission. Only actors who play the role of grave robbers of the Polish justice system change. The concessions announced by the PIS are only apparent. Part of its powers of control the Minister of Justice wishes to surrender the KRS, which is de facto already politicized. According to the provisions of the Act, the Minister of Justice will not be able to dismiss the Presidents of the Courts without consulting the College of the Court and the National Courts of Justice, but what of the fact that more than 100 judges have already been dismissed and even dismissed by fax. So we do not deal with concessions that our European partners expect in this project, but this is the theatre, the theatre, which is ruining Polish judiciary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u39	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The procedure or the process of dismissing judges is ongoing, so that it is not over yet. Before the bill enters into force, I think that many more presidents or vice presidents will be called off by the minister. I'd like to ask you about the number. How many of these appeals have been recently as of today? And I would like to say that in many courts in Poland this has been met with great discontent, with protest not only of judges, but also of judicial staff. That's not enough, it's met with a negative assessment of society, so it's a sovereign. That too, I think, is very important because people know and can judge other people they're working with. I would like to ask whether this project will allow the Minister of Justice to withdraw from these wrong decisions and withdraw from these appointments. And two: Why are these parliamentary projects? This is an absolute scandal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u41	Thank you. Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment concerning the continuation of office after the judge's age does not remove constitutional doubts about the so-called "introduction." the July amendment to equip the Minister of Justice with the power to give his consent to the continued exercise of office by general court judges. Furthermore, the President's consent should be regarded as an official requiring act, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No In fact, this means that the President of the Council of Ministers will gain blocking powers in the process of expressing his consent, and without an appropriate countersignal, it will not be possible to express or refuse it. Then the judge will be forced to retire. And one more question: Why was there a difference between common court judges and Supreme Court judges? For only the first of them shall be entitled to refuse to continue office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u43	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to mention that a few weeks ago, PiS amended the laws concerning the Polish judiciary. The new laws concerning the universal courts, the Supreme Court and the National Council of Courts are in many ways contrary to the standards of the current Constitution of the Republic of Poland, they violate the principles of three divisions of power, the independence of courts, independence and the irreparability of judges. Unfortunately, today's project does not remove these errors at all, changes are apparent. As the amended rules set out the important premises and competences of the President, I would like to ask about such a very important issue. The President will be able to agree that, despite reaching the age of retirement, judges will continue to take the stand of a judge. I would like to ask whether these provisions are compatible with the Treaty on European Union... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u45	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question that has already been asked: Who has blackmailed Members of Law and Justice? Well, we have a list of Members who signed this bill, and I hope that one of them will decide to turn the case in, to the prosecution, because if there is blackmail from the European Union towards the Members of Law and Justice, then we really have a problem. If you think that knowledge in the European Union is so weak that it is not known that you are simply blinding and that it is a mockery of what you are proposing here in connection with the amendment of this law, then you are mistaken. Knowledge of how you break the constitution and democratic rights in Poland is greater in the European Union than in the benches of the Law and Justice Members. What you're proposing is a joke at all. How can we at the moment propose to undo the situation that the Presidents of the Courts will be consulted by the Assembly of Judges, since you have already mentioned practically everyone, so at the moment it is mustard after dinner, it is simply a mockery. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u47	Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u48	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! You emphasize that these projects are intended to meet the recommendations of the European Commission, because you really want to seek an agreement, because the interests of Poles are important, we just need to keep in mind what the committee recommends, and among other things. It states that the decision-making freedom of the Minister of Justice should be eliminated with regard to the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents of the Courts, as well as the decisions already taken with regard to the appeal of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. And, unfortunately, nothing will change in this regard, because as far as appointing is concerned, there will still be total freedom here, and in case of cancellation, it is actually impossible to say that something is being fixed without withdrawing these decisions. Therefore, my question: Will there be another amendment in this respect, which will actually implement the recommendations of the committee, or do you simply want to expose Poles to the loss of EU funds, because in fact the Union sends a clear signal that non-compliance with the rule of law can affect the level of these measures. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u49	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions provide for the possibility of the President or Vice-President of the Court to be effectively dismissed by the Minister of Justice despite the receipt of two negative opinions of the judiciary, when the negative opinion of the KRS is adopted by a simple and not by a qualified majority of 2/3 of the votes. Thus, the draft law introduces an instrument of far-reaching interference by the executive authority in the functioning of the courts, which is not without affecting their judicial system. Moreover, the wording of the grounds for appeal of the President or the Vice-President of the Tribunal poses a significant risk of arbitraryity and the absence of an appeal trail against the decision to revoke them further raises doubts as to the compatibility of the proposed solutions with the Constitution, Article. 173 in conjunction with Article. 178, Art. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and consequently Article 2 45th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It allows the minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is an attempt to blindness that meets the expectations of the European Commission. The fact that there will be nominations of the Presidents of the Courts as assessed by the National Judicial Council, which has already been subordinated to the Minister of Justice, does not change anything. The fact that the judge's continued work after retirement age will now be decided not by the Minister of Justice, but by the President, either, because the President will be looking at the judgments he issued, whether he likes those sentences. Or not. The Act does not restore three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was requested in one of the European Commission's proposals and recommendations. In total, this law still retains this dependence, does not restore those 130 presidents and vice-presidents who have already been dismissed in a completely arbitrary manner by the Minister of Justice. All in all, this bill is just a sham of movements that decreases dependence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the court of the executive apparatus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u53	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! After reading this bill, it is difficult to resist the impression that it is such a flower to the goat, which is a cause for communication, showing that something is changing, although actually, if we look at these records, then they do not change anything, and certainly do not change the essence of the matter, which is a disorder of the threefold division of power, to which PiS has led in recent months. And I have to say that for anyone who digs into these regulations, he'll know how. They work, and this will address the changes that have already been made - here some of your Members have spoken about the exchange of majority of Presidents, Vice-Presidents of the Courts and Judges of the National Courts - de facto the assessment is clear. These provisions do not change anything and this raises serious questions about European measures. Poland is at risk in terms of obtaining them at a good level, precisely because of these actions. Minister, when will you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u55	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There used to be this song by Czesław Niemen, and this project by PiS proposes to the European Commission to play a little bit of fun. Hey, play with us. You're welcome to join us. Because what is this project that is really cosmetic, illusory, apparent? This project is about powdering a dead body. For 184 days, Minister Ziobro faxed 130 judges - 130 judges - from the functions of Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. Today, you are entering this process of teasing the European Commission. However, in fact, the European Commission is aware of the illusoryness of these rules, it is aware that these presidents and vice-presidents, whom you wanted to cancel, have long since been cancelled. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u57	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the questions that have been raised today do not concern the government, which I would like to stress. There were also such questions, i.e. questions not to the representative of the government because it is a parliamentary project. Therefore, I will try to respond to these few issues that concern the government, as it seems, because sometimes it has been vaguely discussed, by stating that there is no official position of the government. In principle, the Ministry of Justice considers that the project is a project that goes in the right direction, but of course it requires some clarification and amendments in the editorial and legislative framework. Several times in the debate there was a statement from honourable Members that judges had been called off. No judge has ever been called off, forbids this constitution. The only appeals that took place, I do not know the exact number, probably around 120, were appeals from the functions of the Presidents of the courts in accordance with the law in force and actually the Minister of Justice took advantage of this competence, i.e. about 15% the total number of Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. There is, of course, a matter of scale, but it is for the assessment of anyone who wishes to make such an assessment. Once again, no judge has been called off because there is no reason for it. According to the Constitution, you can only cancel with a ruling of a disciplinary court... [[And the CEOs?]] ...the judge of the judge's office. [[And the CEOs?]] I have already told you about the presidents, sir. The procedure for dismissing the Presidents of the Courts, of course, existed before that law, which was in force from August, gave a simplified possibility to dismiss the Presidents of the Courts until February. It exists and will exist because it must exist because there are situations in which the Presidents of the Courts must be dismissed, I will remind you of the case of the temporarily arrested President of the Court of Appeal in Krakow. This has not yet been done in this mode and has been resigned, but it is clear that if this resignation had not been made, such a case must lead to an appeal. Thus, regardless of whether this law enters into force or not, in one form or another, there must be and there will be rules that allow the Presidents of the court to be dismissed in special cases. Of course, most of the speeches were about what is not in this law, not what is in this law. Such questions cannot be addressed by a representative of the government, especially in the context of what I have already mentioned, that we are talking about a parliamentary project and it is the Members of the applicant who outline the subject matter of their project, not the government. Of course, only in humorous terms can I treat the question of conferring powers related to extending the right to rule on the President of the Republic in the context of compliance or non-compliance with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Of course, the European Union has no competence in this area and there is nothing to suggest that it should acquire such competence, because all Member States would have to accept it, and it would certainly be difficult to agree to do so. Therefore, we have not examined this issue more closely, because it is obvious. Anyone may consult the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. He is essentially very small in the area of justice, and he is no longer at all concerned with the kind of specific competences that have been asked here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u59	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, Ms Anna Milczanowska, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to representatives of opposition clubs, I find that the most common word was populism. These speeches from the very beginning are very populist, there is a great deal of demagogy in them, and there is really nothing to refer to. Ladies and gentlemen! This speaker spoke about the European Commission. Well, no one else but the state and your representatives went to the European Commission, talking about the implementation of reforms concerning the rule of law in Poland in a falsified way, greatly manipulating information. [[Example.]] I think that the White Paper prepared by the Government of the Republic of Poland, by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, has done her job and the European Commission has come to the conclusion that the rule of law in Poland is very good. [[That's why it's an amendment.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were questions here about what for the citizens. We are changing important institutions affecting the justice system, institutions that will be at the Supreme Court: the Disciplinary Chamber, an emergency complaint, as well as the National Judicial Council, which will refer judges to the Supreme Court. What you were mostly wrong about today is we are working on print 2389 and we will continue to work on it, so please note what we have in this print. Thank you very much. [[Madam, I do not have an answer to my questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u61	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 38 hrs. 11 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts and the Law of 8 December 2017 on the Supreme Court. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We can vote, right? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 2389, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Wait, wait...]] Isn't it working? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Does it work or doesn't it work? [[Voice from the room: The state does not work.]] Don't joke. [[Voice from the room: But it's true.]] 375 Members voted. 151 voted against - 211, with 13 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been instructed by the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] There's an objection. Then we'll vote on this proposal. [[Reason.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion that the Sejm order the committee to present a report at the current Sejm meeting will want to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. The vote was 216 against - 162, with 15 abstentions. The Sejm accepted this request. We proceed to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Infrastructure on the state of the Polish railway and the investments planned on it. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, By 2023 the government of Law and Justice will allocate over PLN 100 billion to the development of the Polish railway. In the next 5 years the Polish railway will become modern, comfortable and punctual. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Marshal, could I have a minute, please? Because it's hard to speak in such disdain. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u63	Everyone, please be quiet. I'm declaring a 1-minute break so those people who want to leave the O.R. can leave. We'll start in a minute. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 47 hrs. 11 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Before I give my vote to the Minister, I also wanted to welcome the winners of the Sejm Knowledge Competition from Skierniewice, who are watching our work in Parliament. [[Applause]] Now, if you'll excuse me, Minister, I'll give you the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask Members who are not interested in this subject to leave the Chamber and to allow for a peaceful presentation of the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u64	Thank you very much. Again, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned before, by 2023 the government of Law and Justice will spend over PLN 100 billion on the development of the Polish railway. In the next 5 years the Polish railway will become modern, comfortable and punctual. To make this possible, we are carrying out a number of projects that improve the safety and comfort of travelers on the one hand and give new opportunities to Polish entrepreneurs and their employees on the other. That is why we are implementing the National Railway Programme, which allows us to build a well-developed railway network. The programme carried out since 2015 is the largest ever modernisation programme of the railway network worth nearly PLN 67 billion. Within its scope we will modernise more than 9 thousand. km of railway lines and we will expand the network with new elements. On most modernised lines, passenger trains will continue at a maximum speed of 160 km/h and freight trains at a maximum speed of 120 km/h, but I repeat once again: maximum because we want to obtain a European average for freight trains of 45 km/h. Today it's about 23 km/h, the average speed of freight trains. The capacity and safety of railway lines will also be improved. Today we are halfway through this challenge. I am proud to say that there are projects involving 64% measures under the National Railway Programme, i.e. PLN 42.5 billion from PLN 67 billion. Please pay attention to the videos in the Seym Room. Wheeled charts compare years from 2016 to March 2018. Already in 2016 the level of expenditure incurred by PKP PLK under the national programme amounted to PLN 3.7 billion. This represents an increase of more than 700% in relation to the total value of expenditure incurred in 2014 and 2015. Repeat, 700%. increase. This was then spent over the 2 years 0.5 billion PLN. This shows the great negligence of our predecessors, the negligence we had to face. If we were remodeling the railroad, like our predecessors, the resources allocated to the National Railway Programme would return to Brussels because they were not used. The first version of the National Railway Programme was developed in the days of Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. This document was unrealistic and impossible to implement, as timetables were created which resulted in the freezing of about PLN 17 billion in tendering procedures, while the tenders themselves announced at the beginning of the current financial perspective did not have fully prepared documentation for the resolution of proceedings. In addition, the national programme was not well planned. The level of spending planned over the years has been far beyond the capacity of the executive sector and the actual opportunities arising from the level of project preparation. Faced with these challenges, we have taken a number of decisive and courageous measures that have helped to improve the situation significantly. In the first place, we have taken steps to increase the potential of contractors. We have restored the dialogue with them in the framework of the Investment Forum and the 2016 expert council. Thanks to an open and constructive conversation, we have developed good solutions. This made it possible to ensure a sustainable improvement in the financial liquidity of the contracting companies. Earlier, entrepreneurs who faced numerous threats were not counted. Today the contractor is our partner, he's not an opponent. It should be recalled that the bankruptcy of Polish contractors and to an even greater extent of subcontractors was an important reason for delays in implementation in the financial perspective of the European Union 2007-2013. The performers are our partners, I repeat, not our opponents. In addition, we took pre-emptive measures to ensure that contractors buy construction materials earlier so that they do not run out at the stage of implementation. We finance purchases from investment funds. We create warehouses of bulk materials and elements necessary to rebuild, revitalize railway lines. In this context, it should also be stressed that the participation of Polish companies in the national railway programme is increasing. Pay attention to the charts. In March 2017 Polish companies were contractors for 74% number of works contracts and 50% Their values. Already at the beginning of 2018 this share increased - Polish contractors of robot contracts realized 76% Numerical contracts and 54% in terms of their value. We're doing investment work on an unprecedented scale. Unfortunately, this must be linked to difficulties on the rail network. It is sometimes necessary to close selected sections of railway lines. However, we take action with the participation of PKP Polish Railway Lines to eliminate them. We have set up 22 detours, secure capacity for freight trains, especially with the supply of coal and aggregates necessary for road and rail investments, we are urgently implementing changes in train timetables on an ongoing basis. The timetable for the notified freight train takes 8 hours at PKP PLK. Moreover, last year we launched a regular, detailed monitoring of the implementation of the National Railway Programme. This makes it possible to follow the progress of the work under the national programme. The development of rail investments will also be affected by the proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act introducing new, necessary regulations on tunnel construction in the framework of rail investments. The proposed law allows the implementation of railway tunnel investments at a rapid pace. I very much thank the High House for having received this proposal so positively and accepting it at the time of the proceedings at previous Sejm meetings. It should be stressed that the Polish railways are the leader in raising and spending European Union funds under the financial instrument Connecting Europe. So far, 21 projects have been funded for a total of 19 billion, with the European Union funding of around 15 billion. Improving the competitiveness of rail transport by ensuring an adequate level of rail infrastructure also involves maintaining it. Therefore, the Council of Ministers adopted 16 January this year. a resolution on the establishment of a multiannual maintenance programme. This lack of such a programme in the 1990s became the cause of degrengolada and collapse in the Polish railway infrastructure, which unfortunately now we have to make up for. It is the result of a 20-year lack of investment in the maintenance of the Polish railway, in the maintenance of railway routes. This programme is the first multiannual programme relating to the maintenance of railway infrastructure. The cost of the programme will be over PLN 23 billion and the implementation period is planned for the years 2019 to 2023. In order for passengers to be able to fully experience changes on Polish railways, we are opening a new chapter also in the area of rolling stock. In December 2017, PKP Intercity adopted a new rolling stock strategy for 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2023, where the implementation of the carrier will allocate about PLN 7 billion. In total, as part of the strategy by 2023, PKP Intercity will modernise more than 700 wagons, buy 185 new ones, and passengers will benefit from 19 new and 14 modernized electric traction units and push-and-lift warehouses. Both wagons and electric traction units will be equipped, adapted to the needs of disabled people, will be equipped with Wi-Fi, comfortable armchairs, air conditioning and amenities for families or cyclists. High Izbo! In order to meet the growing requirements of passengers, PKP Intercity began cooperation with the National Centre for Research and Development concerning the development of innovative rolling stock projects. These actions are part of the government's programme of Luxtorpeda 2.0. Within the framework of the innovation partnership, PKP Intercity plans to implement three rolling stock projects together with producers and research institutes. The result is to be the vehicles best suited to the needs of the long-distance carrier. They are intended to be adapted to a speed of 160.230 km/h, and vehicles capable of developing speeds of 250 km/h are also considered. In our work we want to benefit from the achievements of Polish technological thought and at the same time contribute to its further development. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry has undertaken legislative work on changes to technical and construction regulations allowing rail traffic to operate at speeds up to 250 km/h. Railway investments are also railway stations. The station investment programme for the years 2016-2023. - please slide presentation - will direct 189 stations, including a lot of local importance, to modernization, which will consist in rebuilding or building stations from the ground up in a demolition site, sometimes, buildings. The updated programme envisages the implementation of investments in the years 2016 to 2023 in the total amount of investments of about PLN 1.4 billion. As I have already mentioned, this program is wide. It assumes cooperation in station investments with local government units, which may result in an extension of the scope of works covering the construction of integrated junctions or parking lots and the adaptation of urban tissue which is the direct environment of the railway station to new standards and needs of travellers. Another element of cooperation with local government units under this scheme is the use of part of the area of modernised station buildings for the purposes of local authorities. PKP S.A. cooperates with BGKN and the National Property Resource in support of the implementation of the program, by analysing the properties held by the company, the location and development conditions of which would be usable for real estate investments in the residential area. PKP S.A. proposed a total of over 300 locations, consisting of more than 800 ground real estate with a total area of about 600 ha. On the other hand, referring to the financial results, I am pleased to inform you that, according to preliminary data, the main railway companies have achieved very good financial results for 2017. PKP SA showed a net financial result of over PLN 190 million for the past year. As a result, it has a stable financial situation. PKP Intercity SA carried more than 10% in 2017 passengers more than in 2016. The net financial result for 2017 was record and exceeded PLN 307 million. In this amount there is compensation due to the late delivery of Pendolino trains. PKP Cargo SA as a group also achieved good transport results. The transport work increased by 9%. Finance - 82 million profit. Importantly, the company no longer loses its share of the freight market, which is around 51%. Ladies and gentlemen! And this is what happens when we carry out modernization work in such a wide range on such a broad front. Rail routes are closed, but they are closed in such a way that freight traffic, passenger traffic takes place on a larger scale than a year ago. [[Applause]] As regards the results of the whole PKP Group in 2017, according to preliminary data, the consolidated net profit will amount to PLN 0.5 billion. This is the result achieved by Polish railwaymen and from this place I thank them very much for this result. [[Applause]] The CEOs are here with us. The important issue of growth in the passenger and freight transport market should also be mentioned. From 2010, as I have already said before, the passenger transport market carried out by PKP Intercity SA fell by 2014. Only since 2015, a systematic increase in the number of rail passengers has been observed. Since 2016, the company has recorded a positive financial result, which is a reversal of the trend of generating annual financial loss, as it has done in previous years. The year 2017 was very beneficial for rail freight. All transport parameters have increased, reaching unparalleled values in recent years. The mass of freight transported in intermodal transport in 2017 amounted to 14.7 million tons. This means an annual increase of almost 15%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2017... Marshal, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u65	One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u66	Two minutes, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u67	1 minute, because it is the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that now imposes restrictions. [[Exactly. Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u68	The government, which I have the honour to represent, has undertaken in a strategy for responsible development to carry out the task of facilitating people's rail trips through the implementation of a common ticket. The first stage we have completed, the second stage of the common ticket, consisting of one tariff, will be in 2019 and we hope to keep our word here. Poland is also involved in the development of the concept of the new silk route. This is something we could be talking more about and I hope we will be talking about at the next meetings of the Parliament's Committee on Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! These are actions that we can boast about and that we can be proud of. We still have a lot of effort and work to create a modern and safe rail infrastructure for travellers. The Government of Law and Justice, together with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, wants the Polish railroad to have a good offer for Polish entrepreneurs and to be a reliable partner, for whom we are planning further investments in the following years 2019.2023. Railways at PKP PLK prepare projects for the next EU perspective. Ladies and gentlemen! There won't be any idea of empty files, unfulfilled project files. The railroads are working on another project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u69	Come to the end, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are responsible for creating goals and carrying out tasks to ensure that this great investment effort which we have undertaken and organizational service Poles in the longest possible perspective and contribute to their prosperity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We are ready, open to the questions that ladies and gentlemen will ask. Mrs. Marshal! I apologize for the extension of my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u71	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In Poland today, railroads are beginning to be discussed. As a very important segment, which operates on the basis of Polish and EU law, implements investments and modernises infrastructure and rolling stock, while this very important segment retains the Polish, national ownership character, which has so far been little discussed in previous years. We are still talking about the development of the Polish railway and it is worth remembering that. The railway regains its glow, and from what we see it will continue because the absorption of EU funds is not at risk and accelerates, because after a difficult start two years ago due to poor investment preparation for previous governments, we simply move on to the previous management or have already moved on to the investment offensive. The railway regains its glow because the situation of railway companies is improving, as is the results of the whole PKP Group. It's much better than it was, because new opportunities for railroads are being sought. We are talking about the silk trail, the new connections to the east and the west of Europe, and the use of the LHS. The railway regains its glow because the comfort of travelling by rail is improved and a common railway ticket has already appeared. There is also no fear that it will not be possible to transport aggregates or coal by rail. There have been such fears before. The Ministry of Infrastructure has been coordinating the liquidity of the supply of strategic materials since 2016. This is very important information for the economy. The railway regains its glow because the station's investment programme is being implemented, which was mentioned by the Minister. It can also be seen that meaningfully, very meaningfully, the so-called. an investment hill. We've got a lot of money on the railroad. This investment hill was translated because it could have happened in 2019 or 2020 and would have been very adverse for investment solutions. This problem has been successfully solved and there will be no investment hill, i.e. there will be a roadway of rail transport in Poland. The very interesting thing is - the minister also mentioned this - that there was a forum for investment dialogue, i.e. talks between the investor, contractor and carrier. An agreement is sought to ensure that the PKP functions well and that the economy functions well. Everyone can see, ladies and gentlemen - everyone can see - that nonchalanty has disappeared when it comes to building railway assets, which has happened for 8 years of the governments of PO and PSL. We also see that the Polish State, the Government of Law and Justice, including the Railway Guard, protects the railway assets well. This is really very important. The development of railway is visible everywhere: in Pomerania, in the Warsaw Railway Node, towards the east, for example towards Lublin or Białystok, in Podkarpacie, including the Bieszczady, or on the Central Railway Bus, on the sections of the operation of the railway between Katowice and Kraków or towards Zakopane. The 4th railway package is being implemented, preparations are underway for its implementation. Individual companies also maintain or acquire additional - that is very important - transport markets. There is also an increase in expenditure on historical expenditure related to the operation of the railways. I am talking about a certain heritage of the Polish industry, museums, etc. This is very important. PKP is increasingly serving the development of the Polish economy, and we all know that there is no good economy without good railway communication. Therefore, on behalf of the club Law and Justice I strongly support the adoption of information about the state of the Polish railway, because this state has improved significantly in relation to the state of the previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u74	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! What a partner the government and the resort are for the contractor is - and I would like you to look into the eyes of those entrepreneurs who carry out road maintenance contracts - that in the course of the execution of contracts together with the finance minister you have increased the VAT rate to 23% by draining the pockets of these entrepreneurs. [[Who's talking?]] But I'm moving on to complex information. We have heard about positive developments in passenger transport. The number of passengers is increasing, the attractiveness of rail travel is increasing. It is worth adding that it is the result of improving the quality of rolling stock as a result of the purchase of Pendolino and Dart warehouses by the government of PO and PSL, Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The station program is also a continuation of the programme of predecessors. However, we have not heard much about the economic part of the Polish railway, i.e. the transport of goods. We have an increase in transport mass, 50 million t per year, Minister, High Izbo, while during this time the transport capacity of the Polish railway does not increase, and if it increases, it is minimally - it is within the range of 200 The question is, why is this happening? It is because instead of decisions balancing the share of access costs in the freight price, PKP PLK increases the price of access to infrastructure, for example recently. on secondary lines almost 40%. Asking about the costs of the day-to-day maintenance of the railway network. This is where the Minister spoke so loudly that he's going with the maintenance program. After all, the cost of the day-to-day maintenance cannot be included in the price of access to the infrastructure. Optimistic assurances that investments under the National Railway Programme are not at risk are far from convincing. The contracts concluded for the amount of PLN 23 billion at the end of 2017 are contracts included in the formula: design and build. It is a convenient formula for PKP PLK and, of course, for the Minister, because he announces with ease the high level of contracting, which has little to do with real implementation. The ordering party is easily propagandizing success - this is how I treat the Minister's statement today - by throwing responsibility on the performers. These practices could be passed indifferently if not for time constraints determining the use of EU funds and, of course, the investment and modernisation needs of our railway network. Minister, did you get an inheritance from your predecessors a good legal and technical tooling, a rolling stock for fast investment driving, and you got mad at the mowing breeze? You're gonna have to move, because in 2023 there's gonna be a flop and a shame. [[Mr President, who wrote this to you?]] The progress of this programme so far indicates that there will be a failure. And one more question - about further proposals, namely the creation of a holding company. You probably know that very well, you know the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 2013 which undermined the rates of charges for access to infrastructure. In this way PKP PLK gained PLN 2 billion for its budget. The railway infrastructure manager is independent in terms of staffing and the level of charges for access to infrastructure, so the question is whether this initiative is about centralising the entire rail network, in particular whether it is about regional transport, because if so, I am expressing a firm objection on behalf of my club. And there is a question about the status of Polish railways, PKP PLK, Polish Railway Lines, because they will decide about it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether the railroad will develop and whether the programme you have prepared will be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u76	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In my opinion, we have just heard a package of announcements concerning the development of the Polish railway sector, which has already been signalled by the previous government, the Civic Platform government. These are beautiful plans. There are huge numbers here - 100 billion PLN by 2023. And that's only 20 billion a year, so it's not some kind of knock-down sum. As for all these announcements, I would refer to the example of the railway that connects Radom and Warsaw. This is my constituency. It's 100 kilometers. There's a two-hour train going there right now. There were press conferences of the PiS that announced this success. I would like to remind you that before the war this section of steam railway was overcoming within an hour. At the moment, the problem of modernization of Polish railways is that we do not strive for what Western Europe wants, i.e. to adapt Polish railways to high speeds, because 160 km/h are still wishful thinking. And that is why it seems that all these announcements do not have confirmation in reality. The important thing about this modernization of the Radom section is that in the times of the Civic Platform the Prime Minister was from Radom and the Minister of Infrastructure Maria Wasiak was also from Radom. So if it was not possible to carry out this modernisation then how will politicians now be able to modernise this section? Thus, Kukiz15 treats this report as a list of pious wishes which I hope will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u77	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u78	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for this information that this item appeared on the agenda of the High House. Usually, the opposition calls for a debate on matters relevant to Poles, and PiS does not agree to these debates. It's such a nice change. Although I wonder if this is some kind of goodbye of the Minister to the subject, because there is a rumor that the railroad is to pass under the supervision of another minister. If so, that's good too. Two words of summary. I'll start with that, Minister, that everything you said sounds beautiful, of course. You started out as in the television chronicles, that in 20 years everything will be on the railroad beautifully, modernly and comfortably. However, Minister, it is 2018, 2.5 years you are a minister, and we have fundamental problems - with the purchase of tickets by electronic means, connected with closing access to railway data, to good market solutions, we have unreliable information about delays, rolling stock where there is no pendolino, leaves really much to be desired, trains are late for power, Fridays buying a ticket from Warsaw to travel in different directions sometimes border with miracle. In the PKP you have already had an issue, and the CBA report confirms that there is a fictitious need for training in order to withdraw money. When you take the Bielsko-Biała - Warsaw route, even a simple telephone call, that I will not mention the Internet anymore, is a serious problem. Well, Minister, it's a good thing that in 20 years it's going to be all right, but over the last two and a half years there's been time to solve these basic problems on the railroad, to prevent pathology. And I must say, Minister, given what I said, it's a failure, a failure. This is very few of those five minutes to talk about such an important task, especially since we received information about this debate the day before the meeting. That, too, I'd say, is not a very serious treatment of the subject. But, starting from the beginning, Minister, as far as railway lines are concerned, I am glad that there is a dynamic that such information has appeared, that of course today there are announcements, but we must also say openly - many important regional railway lines, which are important for the inhabitants of our local homelands, have been omitted, even if, I do not know, Bielsko-Biała-Cieszyn, such an important line for revitalisation, is not here. The question is, what about these lines? What about lines that are important from a regional point of view? They were not included in the programme. Rolling stock. There are good Polish companies. By Polish, I mean those who are based in Poland pay taxes in Poland, employ employees. You're throwing out companies with foreign capital. I don't know why. You very much do not like companies that have foreign capital, and in Poland they have created a kind of basis for this business activity, they are active in this market. You don't like them. I don't know why. This causes a very important part of the market to be asked outside of this important task. This needs to be changed. Besides, about the rolling stock, Minister, one thing needs to be mentioned. You said that there would be new trains adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, but yet it has to be played with the practical operation of the railways. What's it like today? Trains are adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, but stop where people with disabilities have problems with passing and going into the city, i.e. on the central platform. Then why should these trains be adapted to the needs of people with disabilities when they cannot be taken or removed in a wheelchair friendly way? That's not how you operate. Tenders. They are announced, yes, but there are hundreds of questions to be asked about the tenders, Minister. Something's wrong. Either the documentation is poorly prepared, or they're unreliable, unprepared contractors. [[There isn't at all.]] However, I would bet that this documentation leaves a lot to be desired. And there's a lot to fix here. Tenders end at the KIO, which obviously does not prove this to be the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, I want to say one thing, Minister. It is important that we spend the resources that we have at our disposal, because it will indeed be a vehicle for our country to enter the 21st century with railroad. But we also need to spend these measures rationally, effectively, and I see this today: we need to spend these funds...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u79	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u80	...but we're not talking about efficiency. I ask the Minister to stop talking about the need to spend it and start talking about the need to spend it effectively so that it will benefit Poland, the Polish economy and Poles. Then it'll be good and fair. And so far, it's hard to say that all of this is positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u82	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As one of my previous speakers has already noted, it is good that today, at the initiative of the government, information on the functioning of our Polish railways has been presented in the Sejm, an area very important for economic, strategic reasons. That is what we can hear today and the Minister has shown us his vision with great commitment. I think, Minister, if we were to let go more and more of the criticism of what was... Because as it was, it was, the voters judged it. We've heard so many times that they've assessed it, and you've taken on your own ability to function, so now would be the time to show in the second part of your term of office how you really want to introduce all these plans and assumptions into implementation. The presentation, I think, gives a wide picture of many threads and touches very many threads, and this - I would like to say - very many threads relevant to the implementation of the plan, but just a little bit with a snack, reminds me of some elements of the speech that I had the chance to prepare for many celebrations in my social and professional life. But let's go to the point of the case: the program assumes the reconstruction of Polish railways, you talk about money, and let's mark just one thing - well, you don't build in the desert, something was there, so for the sake of decency it should be pointed out and emphasized that certain assumptions and bases were. Here's another piece. You will note that for 20 years there have been no investments that have maintained the sustainability of the operation of the railways. That wasn't even planned in 2005 and 2007 either? It's not really that big a deal. But going further, I am pleased that we are saying that there will be investments, there will be reconstruction of railway lines. You are talking here about stages, kilometers, rolling stock, cooperation with investors or contractors - this is very important, I think, because without contractors there will be no execution and we will have various problems and problems - about transports, about railway stations, about reconstruction often from scratch. It also welcomes the fact that railways achieve very good results, so the possibility of implementing these investments will be very good. I only lacked a presentation, at least in the form of a scheme, of investment issues concerning particular regions, because each Member is connected with one of the regions in Poland and will simply ask, this is the natural order of things. I also think, Minister, that in this whole broad planning there are also the details related to the establishment of the Central Communication Port - there are also certain assumptions concerning the number of kilometres of roads, railway lines - and the communication of this port with centres in the country, and since I live and function in the Świętokrzyskie voivodeship all the time, you will not be offended and will not be offended if I ask you not only about the implementation of tasks - we know which are in the first stage - but also about the possibility of going forward, about the possibility of accepting it in the second stage and realizing it. I think that the Members of the option that governs me will support me, even though they criticized the Marshal of the voivodship for taking the initiative, but it is such a game, let's assume, which happens especially during the election year. What would be the chance to build a section of the mustache - Tumlin, the Minister has these materials to communicate and connect Kielce to lines 8 and 25 and better communicate the Świętokrzyski region [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a central port and an exit east and west? Besides, I wish we could do this because it'll help all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Indeed, after the information of the Minister and on the basis of our experience - because Members are also people who use public communication, including PKP communication - one can say that we can already say not only that we will have better but that we have better. There's a lot of evidence, I'll be the example. I remember starting my parliamentary career and I had to ride with my friends through Katowice. It was a gehenna, 5 and 6 hours drive to Warsaw. Today, after modernising the railway line between Opole and Częstochowa we have an amazing acceleration and not only for my region, but I think it is also an amazing relief for Lower Silesia, because you can quickly move to Warsaw. Minister, we are doing a lot, but in this rush we should also remember certain security issues. When Opole - Częstochowa was handed over, we had the pleasure of witnessing many unfortunate accidents. I would like to use the example of the last one that touched my region. On the Opole - Nysa railway section in February, a car with four people at an hour. 19 collided with a passing bus. The journey, I would say, marked, but the journey so marked that it was not very visible to the driver - there were Ukrainians - which caused us to have this situation. We've had a lot of accidents over the last few years, and I personally have been asking the Minister for many years to pay attention to the categories of journeys. I'm not hiding, I've even managed to fight for a few, including the one I'm talking about. I got your answer that, in the context of modernization, this rail trip will have a higher category, there will be light signs and sound signals. Very good. I would like to call for a review of the journeys and those on modernised lines, where new generation sets are often arriving as fast as pendolino, quietly like this bus, causing that often people who are on less significant journeys, but who are staying on rail crossings, are at risk of accident... To analyse and point out that the standard should be increased and safety increased. The second element that I would like to draw attention to is the accompanying infrastructure, the so-called. train stations, I don't know what to call it, because today they are often ruins. The point is that they are also intended to be modernised in some way, or that there is an idea for their development, whether by the state or even by local authorities. It would be worth it if these often ruined objects, which are even such, I would say, very interesting construction architecture, would not fall into ruin in its entirety, but would somehow be managed and used. The last topic I would like to mention is the problem of coordination of train journeys, which are managed by Regional and Intercity. The example of trains moving quickly from my region to Warsaw also indicates that it would be worth it to have these journeys coordinated so that people from different corners, e.g. Nysa, they could have arrived on time for the train that is leaving for Warsaw. I think this would be very important and have an impact on the number of passengers using it. So, good luck here. I will certainly support you in these investments, but also point to the things that we as Members see in the field, so that you also take these remarks into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister, together with representatives of the Ministry and railway companies! High Izbo! A fundamental question in the context of rail investments is the question of European funds and their efficient and efficient use. It is worth mentioning, and this is what the Minister said, that the amount for railway investments, which remains available, is actually huge and amounts to PLN 67 billion - that is what we need to spend until 2023 on modernising the iron routes, as well as on rebuilding railway stations, rolling stock and connecting centres. Minister! Did the authorities of railway companies, with such a large amount of money to be spent, draw something from the experience of the negligence of the previous authority, which did not use all the funds from the 2007-2013 perspective? What actions does PKP PLK carry out in connection with the short execution time for projects by 2020? How PKP PLK intends to implement the national railway programme, which is characterized by the largest in history accumulation [[♪ The bell ♪]] expenses? Another important question concerns the overall financial situation of railway companies whose dominant owner is the State Treasury. What's the situation here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u88	Dear Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about the planned construction of the railway from Katowice to Pyrzowice, which can be a good illustration of the problems with PKP PLK's investments. From 2005 to 2007, the railway route was established: from Bytom to Piekary Śląskie and further to the municipality of Bobrów to the Pyrzowice airport. Long-term treatments of the local community, local authorities, to convince that the optimal solution would be the route: Katowice - Chorzów - Bytom - Tarnowskie Góry - Pyrzowice - Zawiercie - Katowice, especially since this investment would be mostly carried out by currently used tractions, i.e. it would be based on the reconstruction of former tracks. It would also be much more rational to spend funds on this option. Although this would increase the journey time on the Katowice - Pyrzowice route by several minutes, this route could take over a huge part of the daily movement of people moving to work or to study within the Upper Silesian agglomeration. PLK has already announced deadlines for carrying out this investment, but recently problems have started to arise. Only a week after signing the project documentation agreement, it turned out that PLK did not receive funding from the funds [[♪ The bell ♪]] European for the implementation of this investment. I wanted to ask the question of what was the result of the failure to obtain environmental decisions, which had the effect of not obtaining this funding. Were these objective reasons, or is this evidence of PLK failure?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u90	I'd like to ask the Minister to take a personal interest in this investment, make sure that the PLK prepares all the documents in time...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u92	...and for this investment to be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, Rail Baltica is a key railway investment for Eastern Poland, for the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Work is currently underway in the section Czyżew - Sadowne. I would like to ask when they will be completed. When will the works begin on the following sections, i.e. Białystok - Czyżew and Białystok - Ełk? When will they begin? What is the deadline for their completion, and what are the obstacles envisaged for travellers? I also have a question about what is happening in connection with the modernisation of connections between Białystok, Bielsk Podlaski, Czeremcha and Hajnówka and Siedlce. I would also like to ask here if these trains, which will be running in 10 and 15 years, will reach this speed of 160 km/h, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because in other countries... In Taiwan, trains reach 300 km/h, in France - 300 km/h, in Turkey - 300 km/ha, in Germany - 350 km/h. Are we supposed to have only those trains that travel at 160 km/h?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u96	Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u97	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Polakzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have such very specific questions. The first relates to the announcement by the Government of Law and Justice of something most obvious, that is, a common ticket. I would like to ask you here to answer the question of how this project is implemented, in particular in the context of the responsibility of the Marshals of the Voivodships, the state of negotiations with the Marshals concerning primarily the uniform tariff and cooperation between the various local carriers in achieving this target expected by passengers. The second question is whether Polish Railways can deliver investment projects planned for this year - about 10 billion - ensure the smooth running of trains, both with aggregates [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the aggregate mines, as well as those with coal to power plants and power plants. The last question concerns the taking of action by investors in such a way as to also ensure the safety of traffic, avoiding collisions with machines, in particular as regards the execution of investment tasks...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u100	...by contractors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u101	Please, Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last year, PKP announced tenders for the modernisation of 122 railway stations across the country. My question, Minister - please inform - is: How many railway stations from the Śląskie voivodship require such modernization, and how many are on this list? What actions and in what time horizon does the Ministry intend to undertake to modernise the railway station buildings from the Silesian Voivodeship not included in last year's tenders? Next question: What are the effects of the action? In response to my interpellation, I received such information from the Ministry of Infrastructure and PKP in agreement with the local authorities of the city of Jaworzna... The aim is to restore the proper function to the railway station building in Jaworzno-Szczakowa. It should be noted here that a few years ago there were liquidated by PKP Intercity ticket office, toilets and waiting room. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has provided a great deal of information, but he has not explained, so to speak, for two years of delays in the implementation of these programmes. The world was not created in 2015, in November, but before it was. The Minister should keep that in mind, because some of the people who were branch directors have been dragged to headquarters. By presenting the program in this way, you questioned their work in previous companies, their previous responsibilities. Minister! You've been telling me how great the financial results have increased. Then please tell us how much the increase in the PKP PLK track access charges has benefited from, how radically these charges have increased in the last 2 years. That's another line. How much have local government subsidies for rail transport increased in Regional Transports? Please specify the exact amounts, because you will then have an answer, of which, for what purpose these profits are. Answer me, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is there a communications paralysis in Krakow, why aren't investments implemented? It is about 13 investments which were guaranteed in 2014 in the regional contract for the Lesser Poland voivodship, and most of them have not been launched until today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister, for the information submitted today, which shows the dynamic development of Polish railways. I have a few questions I'd like to ask you. First: Is the implementation of the National Railway Programme at risk? Are we in danger of losing the EU's rail funds? Second question: How has the communication between Bieszczady and the capital of Poland improved recently? And here I would like to say that the railway connection Przemyśl - Lviv - Kiev is very popular. At this point I would like to ask: How many passengers were transported on international trains between Poland and Ukraine? Has there been an increase or a decrease in passenger numbers? And another question. It is known that on the railroad - here the Minister spoke about it - there is a very broad investment front, which we are pleased with. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this broad investment front under the National Railway Programme paralyze the railway network due to the need for closures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u107	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For the inhabitants of Bieszczad and my city, Przemyśl, rail is an important factor of living conditions and the basis for economic and economic development. So I draw the Minister's attention to the lack of connections between northern and western Poland and the Bieszczady. The same is true when it comes to connections with Ukraine. In fact, the entire transport ends in Rzeszow. What action will the resort take to improve the railway in the southern part of Podkarpacie, develop the Bieszczadzki railway tourism and reactivate railway line 102? As far as the historic railway bridge in Przemyśl is concerned, its condition and appearance are catastrophic. When, Minister, will the decision finally be made about his renovation? Is this going to be before this bridge, built in Professor Eiffel's studio, collapses into San? And the third case. Beautiful, historic neobaroque railway station in Przemyśl, restored for more than 20 million by the previous government. And now? One cashier, giant queues, no service due to the barren, unbelievable rent rates demanded by the company managing this station. Does the Minister have any idea how this station works and how it works? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question: What's next with the scandalous Sensus Group case? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u109	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister presented us with a beautiful vision of how the PKP will be modern, fast, timely in 20 years, but let's talk about how it looks today. Exactly what I'd like to talk about is trains going towards Wielkopolska. We have there, yes, the renovation of the route and the change, but this is really the biggest problem for travelers: the condition of trains riding even in Intercity class, and customers pay enough for a ticket to have convenient conditions, leaves much to be desired, of course in lower class trains all the more so. In the 21st century, in winter, heating can get out. Trains on the 3-hour route have an hour delay not due to the renovation of the route, but due to technical failures, replacement of locomotives, etc., and buying a ticket from Warsaw to Poznan on Friday, already in the middle of the week [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, it's bordering on a miracle. When you consider, first of all, to give newer warehouses for international routes, because international trains also go there, second, you will add rolling stock in places where it is necessary, whether it is on Friday on the line Warsaw - the capital of Wielkopolska, or for example. On the routes...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u112	...which lead to resorts, beaches or mountains during the summer, when buying a ticket for this cheapest form...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u113	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u114	...communication is often bordered by a miracle? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I was going to ask another question, but it came from the stands here that there is some investment crisis in Krakow. That is why I would like to touch this problem, because each of us probably spent some of our lives in Krakow, I even spent quite a lot. I would therefore like to ask, Minister: What is with the line E30 Kraków - Katowice? Is it possible to complete this line within the deadline just to complete this investment? Then I would like to ask about the construction of the Łagiewnica route, which is a very large road investment and which also includes line 94. Is that gonna cause complications when it comes to road and line 94? I would also like to ask: What about the invitation to tender for the very strongly discussed and popular issue of the Subterranean - Piebello line? Will this investment last too long, to say the least, or will it be realized in time? I would like to ask, is there even a problem with the planned investments in Krakow, because in my opinion there is no, and someone here said there is a problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u118	Dear Marshal! Minister! Hawks-Dorje is almost 90 thousandth city. It is currently the largest city in Poland, if not in Europe, without access to an active railway line in passenger traffic. So far, millions of tons of coal have been exported from this hawk, while there is no funding, there is no railway line, about 8 km, the reconstruction of this railway line, because the embankments are so that regional traffic can be operated, as well as cross-border traffic, because the town of Hawk-Zdrój borders also with the Czech Republic. By 2014, the president was not interested in this at all, the former president. There is a new president, prepared such an economic analysis, gained EU funds for it, submitted them to the Ministry of Infrastructure and submitted them to the PKP. Minister, when will you take account of this investment? When the people of the Hawk are free to travel to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Katowice and further, is it all about Poland or abroad? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, at first I wanted to thank you. Well, some time ago, I asked for an interpellation concerning the Czechowice railway station, and indeed, after examining the case, the state put the repair of the Czechowice-Dziedzice railway station into the railway investment programme. For that, Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask, however, when exactly will this investment begin, because sparrows, so to speak colloquially, are saying that it may be at the end of this programme, which is until 2023. This is obviously very unsatisfactory, because this station is just scaring, so it needs to be renovated. This is one of the important lines, a line besieged by tourists, so it would be good for all of us to have this station refurbished quickly. Second question, control systems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a complicated matter, but I am interested in how you intend to solve such a problem, that if these control systems do not have proper ownership, they will not be in control, I would say broadly, states, then we will have cosmic expenses for access to the line. So in perspective, it means carrying...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u121	Go ahead and finish it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u122	...probably hundreds of millions of gold costs. And the question is, what is your idea of solving these problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u124	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thank the Minister very much for presenting this very important information in today's railway debate, because we have seen an increase in rail investment for two years. My questions will mainly concern the modernisation of the Warsaw - Pilawa - Lublin line. First question, Minister: Is the current investment, modernisation of line 7 in the section of Warsaw - Pilawa - Lublin, whose estimated cost is over PLN 3 billion - one of the major investments currently being carried out by PKP in Poland - coordinated with other planned railway investments in the region? Second: Will the completion date of this investment related to the modernisation of the Warsaw - Pilawa - Lublin line be respected? There is also the construction of the second track on the Pilawa - Otwock section. This is a big challenge. For many years, over 30 years this investment has been promised, so my question concerns the timely completion of this investment. Third: Will the obstacles caused by rail 7 not paralyze communication in the region [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of the modernisation of railway line No 8 towards Kraków? For our residents, our region is It's a very important communication link. From Pilawa to Warsaw more than 1.5 thousand. people commute every day. It's very important that it doesn't cause complications with the commute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would very much like to share this optimism of the Minister concerning the Polish railway. It's actually up to you whether or not it's gonna happen. I wanted to raise a case closed last year by the railway line from Jelenia Góra to Lwówek Śląski, in which I made numerous interpellations. These answers do not satisfy me because they result in very high costs of modernisation. The professionals who checked it on the spot absolutely do not share these amounts. This is an argument not to deal with it. I would ask that the Minister personally, so heartily approach this railway line, because it is the exclusion of the really poor part of the transport Lower Silesia. And if there are any problems, the marshal is open to discussion, to take over this line. We really cannot agree to such exclusion and to the lack of action in this regard. And the other thing. I wanted to ask you about the progress of the work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the line Charcoalniec - Zgorzelec, when it comes to electrification of this line, because as you can see in the field, nothing has started yet. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u127	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The development of modernization of the Polish railway is a very important activity for the development of the economy which strengthens not only freight transport but also passenger transport. Modernization is designed to improve travel comfort and reduce time for all categories of trains. Among many investments is also the modernisation of the route Częstochowa - Zawiercie, i.e. the so-called. A wizard. The standard of travel and the ability to transport goods will be increased, but also the level of safety will increase. Questions. How advanced are the work on this project? What is the question of the implementation of investments on a peripheral line in Warsaw? Was it possible to run trains during the reconstruction of the station Warszawa Zachodnia? What is it, Minister, the overarching goal of restoring traffic at Warsaw Main Station [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what functions would the new station perform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u129	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will ask about the Warsaw midline, I will ask about the schedule of work in this area. What dates did you predict for the modernization of Warsaw's midway line, the line that connects the key hub stations: East Warsaw and West Warsaw? We know about the delays in this regard. What solutions do you propose on this subject, first of all, to make time to spend money, second, to enable Warsaw and passengers to function normally? And the second point, sir. You're a record player. You are not a record-breaker in spending European funds, but you are a record-breaker in spending money on political offices. The specific question is, have you talked to Mr. Luke Smolko about it when he pays back the prizes? And I will remind our listeners: 114 thousand. zł prizes [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the years 2016 and 2017. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u132	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The station investment programme is the first programme to modernise stations. It is also a huge and very important investment project. The list of stations completed in 2017 includes nearly 200 facilities. The station in Włocławek was also included on this list, for which, Minister, thank you very much. The inhabitants of over 100 thousand cities, as well as travelers, have been waiting for a beautiful, functional and modern station for many years. I also have questions. What criteria were adopted in determining the order of departure of stations for modernisation? What are the sources of funding for the station's investment programme and is this funding provided? I also have a question related to cooperation with local governments. The Minister spoke about the ministry's cooperation with local government units. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How is this cooperation on ongoing and planned actions progressing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u133	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I know that work is underway on the modernisation of the Lublin - Stalowa Wola Rozrodow railway line. It is true that passengers face many difficulties, but I hope that the work done will improve both the comfort of the journey and the time of the journey. I would like to ask you about the renovation of the Kraśnik railway station, which is currently in a sorry state. In fact, the building dates back to 1921 and its renovation is absolutely necessary. This renovation is necessary. Therefore my question: When can passengers and inhabitants of Kraśnik count on a modern railway station that meets the expectations of passengers and residents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Within the framework of sustainable development, PKP PLK signed on 8 February 2018 an agreement to develop pre-project documentation for the modernisation of 223 km of railway lines in the south of Pomeranian Voivodeship, among others. on a line from Tczew to Człuchów or from Wierchucin to Chojnice, for which, Minister, thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'm asking for a little more towards Szczecin. I'm asking the following questions. First question, Minister: Will the modernization of line 201 coincide with the modernization of Gdynia Port station? Will there be a third track on Gdansk Osowa - Gdynia within line 201? Will all passenger facilities be adapted to operate persons with reduced mobility within line 202? And last question: Will the main platforms be equipped with escalator for passengers as part of the reconstruction of Gdansk station? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u137	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your effectiveness is evidenced by the fact that you were the face of the flagship program of living plus. Unfortunately, for two years of your business, no apartment has been left. realized... [[Voice from the room: About the railroad we are talking about.]] ...and you, as Minister of Construction, are currently not implementing this program. But I wanted to ask you when we can expect to complete the repair of the Warsaw-Poznań railway line, because it is actually a very big problem at the moment. Finally, there is a question of ending the concept or finally making a decision regarding the renovation of the Poznań station, because this building is still not used. And absolutely outrageous, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the director of the political office for the last two years has received 114 thousand. Zloty bounty. When, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this money be returned to the state budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High-speed trains can play a major role in passenger transport strategy in Poland. A high-speed rail project was developed in the previous decade, but the government of Donald Tusk stopped its work in 2011. In the previous plan, the location of Y station, from which lines from Warsaw and Łódź to Wrocław and Poznań, played an important role throughout the course of the high-speed railway. She was located in the Kalisko-ostrowska agglomeration in the municipality of Nowe Skalmierzyce. The concept of designing a new KDP scheme in Poland is currently being developed, taking into account the Central Communication Port to the west of Warsaw. I have a question: What are the plans for the development of high-speed rail today? Whether the planning at the concept stage and the prospect of developing a corridor study is taken into account the location of Y station or other high-speed railway station in the area [[♪ The bell ♪]] an ostrów-Kalesko agglomeration? And last question: Are train traffic restrictions on the Central Railway Bus planned to continue the modernisation of this line in the coming years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to talk about Mielec, the city from which the most goods produced in south-eastern Poland are exported, about the line L25 Dębica - Mielec - Tarnobrzeg, which has been in scandalous condition for thirty years. Marshal of PiS Voivodship has promised for 6 years that the investment will be carried out. It's 2018. I would like to receive a written answer to the question of what the implementation of the project, which is expected to cost about PLN 200 million, will look like. 40 million PLN is missing in this respect. I'm a member of the Public Finance Committee. I have repeatedly tabled amendments to the railway station. I have an answer from you: 2020. If you say, on the one hand, that in 2018 we start investments, why should the railway station in Mielec wait until 2020? He's not on the list of train station investments in cities from 50 to 100,000. residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You reject my amendments: in 2017 - PLN 3 million, for 2018 - PLN 10 million. The investment should be carried out - railway station and track. So I look forward to this response both today and in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was going to ask about upgrading the railway station in Kraśnik, but here is a colleague The wolf has already delivered me, so I will ask what actions PKP PLK SA will take to adapt the station to the needs of people with reduced mobility, as PKP PLK develops the travel information system and what actions the infrastructure manager intends to take to modernise and minimise the risk of delays during the implementation of such large investment projects. And I would like to ask if some projects related to the construction of vacuum rail will be included in the rail modernisation programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Kilian, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to make the Minister aware of the problem of the lack of escalators in the transition to the platforms at the PKP stations. This is a great handicap when passengers need to move, especially at high passenger traffic stations, e.g. in Gdansk, Katowice or Toruń. One embarrassing thing is the problem of escalators in Gdansk at the PKP station there. Besides, as in the cities mentioned earlier, these stairs break gruesomely after several times in very short periods, they cost a lot of money. Minister! How much is the railroad problem, and how much is the city's problem? Can the Ministry address this very important problem, i.e. Just about the lack of efficient stairs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u147	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The route of Poznan - Warsaw, line E20. Is the modernisation going according to plan? What are the benefits of this modernisation? What's the train speed, the quality of the trains? Or, for example, He's gonna drive a pendolino on this tour? Why did Konin - Kutno resign from bus replacement communication today? We can practically not get to Konin by trains or by sub-communications in the case of Intercity trains. How many collisions on this route will be eliminated? Does the investor fully finance or co-finance the construction of viaducts that eliminate track crossings? What does it look like in different locations? What does the construction of railway stations and platforms look like, especially in Konin? Will the quality of construction everywhere meet standards that protect the comfort of older people? It goes on for example. Escalator to and from tunnels to platforms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about planned investments on the Polish railway. The investment plans are impressive. PLN 100 billion for the years 2019-2023, including 2/3 of this amount for the modernisation of the line. It is encouraging that something will finally move on the Polish railway. And here I would like to thank the Minister for his investment in Opole. Recently, a contract was signed for the modernisation of the Opole - Nysa route. This is very good for Opole. And so a little rhetorical question: why so much money for this purpose? How much is the Union, i.e. how many EU measures are envisaged? And two: How do these plans relate to how much our predecessors invested in turn, i.e. PO-PSL coalition, quota and percentage of the state budget? How was the use of EU funds by the previous team? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u151	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! So far, I had the impression that you were perhaps the only minister in the PiS government who was very specific about the case. Today's speech is just a propaganda of success that doesn't necessarily have anything to do with what you're saying. Perhaps you've changed your mind and rhetoric after the last illegal money you've been given. That's 75 grand. I don't think that's enough. But if you were doing what you said, then you should give us 750,000. Rewards. Unfortunately, this is not the case. I think you should think about it. I have this specific question: Can you ever afford to think that the predecessors have done a lot and have prepared a lot too? Of course you do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also your success, but you can afford the courage to admit it someday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! PKP Intercity bought trains in the form of pendolino, which was worth about PLN 2 billion and in which there was no ordinary Wi-Fi installed or the strengthening of the telephone signal. Between 2016 and 2017 contracts were signed for the modernisation and purchase of new wagons. I would like to know what was the value of these investments and whether the lack of this proverbial Wi-Fi, which is now being charged to the current government or the authorities... Is that right? Who's to blame? The second question concerns the station investment programme in Pomerania - as if the Minister could present the value of these investments, which stations will mainly be renovated. The third point is the indication of the ministry's efforts to increase the permissible speed in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the railway network. Mainly I am talking about line number 9 Warszawa - Gdańsk. When the speed is increased to 200 km and how will it help, so to speak, to shorten the intercity train run on this section? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u155	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u156	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, there's nothing you can do about the whispering of reality here, and you haven't been able to do with railroads from the start - the exchange of the Minister for Railways, the exchange of the entire board, in what atmosphere, in the atmosphere of the scandal. I don't know if you got the real information today, too, because I don't know if you know you've had the biggest train delays since 2001 in the fourth quarter of 2017. I don't know if you know that in order to replace a one-track turnout, a line is closed that takes away stone material for road works, for 7 days, and a day's work is a day's work. So I'd just like the Minister to take an interest in that. You actually started containers as part of the idea of a silk trail, but have you made any decisions about terminals? It's over there right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] modernization and construction of new terminals are required. On behalf of the club, I say we vote against this information. We have not heard such a propaganda speech in this House in a long time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, the Platform... excuse me, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, unlike my previous speaker, congratulate the Minister on his speech. And now I'd like to present the questions I have for the Minister. Minister, the sections of the route between Bydgoszcz and Warsaw are being renovated. I would like to ask how long these repairs will last and when the earlier speed of vehicles will be restored on this route. Or maybe even - what would be desirable - these times will be shorter, because I understand that these renovations also serve something. This is important from the point of view of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, especially since there have been no air connections between Bydgoszcz and Warsaw. I also wanted to ask you about the old coal bus in the context of a possible port. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The multimodal, which will be implemented, for the renovation of this route, maybe also - and I would ask for a response - for the renovation of passenger connections between Bydgoszcz and Gdynia. Thank you very much. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Wojtkiewicz, Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The railroad to the airport is economic development, as everyone knows. I have a question about the Katowice railway route - airport in Pyrzowice. This is the option chosen during the two administrative trials, where we really gave a lot to the social side. I know that Law and Justice upholds this option and there is funding, although there is information in the social message that the environmental impact assessment has been carried out in some way wrongly. Are local governments responsible for this, and how can this be done quickly enough so that there is proper funding and that this line can be built? And the second question concerns the Tarnów Mountains connection - Opole. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship on behalf of the PO resolution of the Sejm closed this merger. Will it be possible in the future to conduct proceedings for the restoration of this line? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u161	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, just a year ago, on 11 April 2017, the Minister visited Radom and was then signed an investment agreement for Route 8. So an equal year, as this investment started to take place, you started to implement it, for which I thank you very much. The Radoms are waiting over 20 years for this investment, ladies and gentlemen. This is the key need signalled by the inhabitants of the city of Radom and the Radom region. And I wanted to ask you about this investment. Are you predicting any threats? Because the completion of this investment is foreseen for 2021, it is implemented [[♪ The bell ♪]] in two stages. And after this year, do you see that this investment is going without any turbulence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I hope that there has already been a period of numerous winding-up of railway connections with outermost areas. I would like to ask you about plans to renew regional connections closed in recent years. As part of the development of cultural tourism, we could use a quick connection between the centre of Warsaw and Iron Wola, maybe a bus. And another issue that is very important to me is the participation of the PKP in the barrier elimination programme. Because the number of older people is increasing, and the elderly, as well as the disabled, are often having difficulty moving from the platform to the train due to a lack of adjustment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much ask for information as to whether this will continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the future of railway lines in West Małopolska and plans for them. And I am referring to railway line 117 of the relationship Bielsko Biała - Kalwaria Zebrzydowska and line 103 from Wadowice to Trzebini, as well as railway line 97 of the relationship Sucha Beskidzka - Żywiec, lines which, against poor road infrastructure in the region, and due to crowded national roads, can be an alternative to improving transport conditions, access to the capital of Małopolska and Podbeskidzia, as well as other Silesian cities. I know, Minister, that the question is detailed, which is why there may be a written answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u167	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I thank you for changing the approach to railways - not closing railway lines, just developing them, rebuilding them and revitalizing them. It is visible, among others. in Podlaskie Voivodship. There was a question here about Rail Baltica. In keeping with this, I would also like to ask you about the renovation of the railway station in Krapach. A few years ago it was taken over by the local government, but the local government is unable to repair this station. And while repairing such an important railway line, this building will probably have to be demolished. So isn't it worth the railroad to take over again this station and refurbished it, which will also be related to the renovation of the connecting centre, because it is near the bus station. I think that would be an important addition not only to the municipality itself, but also to a large part of the region. What will the repair of the railway station in Bialystok look like? Will we have a similar standard as in other big cities in Poland? And an element associated with Grayev and Monks. We hope that there during the repair of Rail Baltica [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be the possibility of not passing trains by road, which is nearby, because now several dozen times during the day this journey is closed due to the passing of freight trains. Can this element be eliminated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, To begin with, a statement of appreciation for the fact that it was the Minister who undertook to catch up on the modernisation of the railways and to adapt it to transport better, during the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL. It's about 11 billion zlotys they didn't use. Although they shifted them to other purposes, the railway infrastructure did not benefit. Thank you for this ambitious plan. I also thank the Minister for doing so and decided to start the train movement on the Kielce - Busko line, because Busko on the economic map of our voivodship means a lot. Thank you for the agreements signed for work on railway No. 8 and railway No. 25. There's work planned there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll cover 45 railway stations. At the same time, I would like to ask what is the implementation of these agreements at the moment, what is the implementation of the programme preparing the modernisation of the railway station in Kielce and when we will meet in Kielce to talk to residents about the chosen project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u172	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. First: Is it true that the Polish government wants to withdraw from the commitments resulting from the Council and European Parliament regulation setting out the TEN-T network, the Trans-European Transport Network, which assumes that the Y project will be implemented by 2030? That's the kind of information that came out. The second question concerns the problems we had with the Pendolino rolling stock at the beginning of the year. We know that several teams have been put out of service, there have been complaints from passengers that they are being replaced by wagon assemblies. Question. Who's responsible for those holes that were in the plating, what's the cost of repairs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And who suffered the consequences? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u173	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to respond. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for confirming the concern for the Polish railways in such a large number of questions. Most of the questions were overcome by concerns about global solutions or detailed projects, specific projects carried out in the regions. I'll skip a few completely unrelated speeches. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the many questions we will, of course, answer in writing, but I would like to address the fundamental issue. In two questions of opposition representatives there is a thread of some populism, a thread which is unsupported by nothing, any arguments, information, spreading, building, creating virtual reality, prospects of 20 years when the Polish railroad will change. Ladies and gentlemen! We provided time limits, time limits by 2020, 2022 and 2023. If we are talking about individual sectors, rolling stock policy, you know very well - here I thank you very much for the suggestions of experts - so it is simply that we do not go into the shop, into the living room and do not buy a car, train or locomotive, just as you buy a car or other good. [[What kind of conversation is this?]] What do you mean, what kind of conversation is this? Mr President, you know very well that if it were so that the predecessors would have placed their orders in due course and placed their orders, we could say today that we have a bigger rolling stock. [[Applause]] And if questions are raised about when the cars will finally be comfortable and when the possibility of travelling in comfortable conditions, in new, modernized or built wagons, then the already mentioned and discussed by me, because of the thinness of time only to a limited extent, the rolling stock program will lead to this purpose, and its implementation by PKP Intercity, for which the company provides for the amount of PLN 7 billion, has led to this situation. As in the case of Poznań, the order has already been placed, the company has placed the order, signed the contract, so for other projects further contracts are envisaged, subsequent placing of orders. As for rolling stock policy - and these are concrete, these are not promises of events that will take place in 20 years - signed contracts, implementation time, inclusion of rolling stock in the network and, of course, a huge financial effort. Now I'm going to move on to investment issues. I'd like more time, I'd hope for more time to answer. Unfortunately, due to the thinness and time limitation in the last part of my speech, I could not refer to the plans related to the Central Communication Port, because the railroad is also the Central Communication Port and I think we all know that. We do not ignore the problems of designing, with the reference to the railway network, with the establishment of new connections to the Central Communication Port, that is beyond any discussion. And when it comes to such statements that the investment process is virtually drawn, I will remind you once again: November 2015. In November, the rule of law and justice began to function and was sworn in. Previously, in the election campaign, the Civic Platform and PSL government announced 26 tenders for PLN 17 billion. In 22 cases the files were empty, there was no documentation. How, for God's sake, Members, do I speak especially to those who are absent, who have asked questions, make investments? After all, most of you are engineers, especially those who work in the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and lawyers. How can railway investments be carried out without the required documents, the required documentation: consents, environmental decisions and everything that is needed to legally implement railway investments? You should be aware of one thing: the implementation of investments without the required documents is punishable by criminal liability, because it is a violation of the law, and if someone does, it threatens to repay EU funds and these EU funds, because these questions have been raised here, there is 60% in the entire programme. , please count out of 66 billion zlotys that is 35 billion. Should we allow this to happen... There have been such questions as the fact that some cities are blocking themselves, and in this case Kraków, as it is that the E30 railway line between Kraków and Katowice is being blocked, and how it is that these works are now being accumulated. If one of the questioners, who was not here, who was once a Marshal of the Lesser Poland voivodship, did his due diligence when he was a marshal and mobilized his colleagues, especially in 2011 and 2015, then the E30 line would be modernised, because the deadline for putting this line into service after modernization was set for 26 April 2014. [[Applause]] why he lacked courage and why it was lacking for other opposition politicians who today ask questions why we are doing this so late. Why did they lack the courage to demand from their colleagues, then government ministers or presidents of companies responsible for implementing these investments? Today, reconstruction of the E30 line between Krakow and Katowice, where the train goes 2 hours. 12 mins over 77 km, would already be a historic reconstruction. And this is such an example, it is typical of most railway sections in Poland, because billions that were not used for these investments, rapidly shifted to other purchases, should just be invested in railway routes. As far as the E30 investment is concerned, at that time PLN 1.6 billion was lost from the funds. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[They weren't lost, they weren't.]] Today, the former President of Krakow, who accuses me of populism and failure to follow the facts, should know that the modernisation of railway routes running through Kraków towards Rzeszów would already be a historical phenomenon. But, of course, I accept these questions, I accept the comments that have been made here today, and with full responsibility I assure you that these investments will be implemented. I'll remind you again. Please note, this is about 2016. Here the red colour is marked with planned investments, green - those in implementation, and here - the tender processes started. What more could we have done without documentation? March 2018: investments in implementation - green field, planned - PLN 11.6 billion. There were questions here about whether we were able not to lead to - I apologize for defining, for colloquialism - shortness of breath, as far as the possibilities of producers are concerned, the possibilities of performers. Why did I refer in my speech to the fact that the national railway programme was an unrealistic program prepared by the predecessors and we had to modify it? For here in the years 2019 to 2020 investments were expected at the level of PLN 32 billion. We've flattened this spades to 22 billion over the last two years. We introduced the principle of mandatory purchase of materials necessary for the implementation of investments, bulk materials such as aggregates and all other necessary building materials. After all, it is the construction from scratch, the reconstruction of railway routes, railway embankments, but also the elements that later serve to build a direct infrastructure on which trains move. And it is the contractors who make these purchases that do not do so voluntarily, that do so out of duty. That's the way it's supposed to Producers in Poland must have guaranteed production, provided a portfolio of orders for years. These products need to be transported on most of the tracks. And that's why, with major railway investments, pay attention, there's a phenomenon that we've never seen before - huge aggregates warehouses, railway foundations, railway tracks. Thanks to this, entrepreneurs have this portfolio of orders published and they know what will happen to their companies in the coming years. If I'm here to confirm any negligence... Admit it, gentlemen, I apologize to the opposition country for neglecting those past almost eight years, and certainly the last four years of your governments in this area. This is beyond discussion. [[We'll talk in 2023, Minister.]] Okay, we'll talk for sure. We are talking about reviving the regions, but we are also talking about decisions that could sometimes have been taken, and they have not been taken. The question has been asked about the Kiev railway line - Przemyśl. In 2016 - I remember this amount - the carriage of passengers on this line was carried out in the number of 4 thousand. After agreeing with the Ukrainian party that the train from Kiev will come to Przemyśl on a wide track, in 2017 we reached the result of 370 thousand. passengers. May I? Yes, you can. Could you run a call from Jasła to Zagórze? There were questions when the Bieszczady will be opened, because they were closed by removing rail links. Recently the inauguration of the Jasło - Zagórz railway connection took place... [[But it was the Rozonian who got it.]] ...the next connection from Zagórze to Łupkow will be running soon. [[Yes, sir.]] And we'd like to go to Slovakia. I would like to address the members of the Parliament's Committee on Infrastructure, the presidents. We were there visiting whether I had the opportunity to accompany the Parliamentary Infrastructure Commission with a visit two years ago and we remember the Slovaks' hope that they would communicate the border, the border area of Slovakia with the Bieszczady Mountains, and then they would go towards central Poland. We're gonna lead to that, too. It's not that hard. Trust me, that's what you can do. You just have to want, and that will, it seemed, many times it wasn't. There was a will to eliminate the railway lines. And since the question is, will the railway lines be destroyed... [[No, we won't.]] ...then I have to share my problem with you in such an extraordinary way. Well, we don't want to eliminate the railway lines, but what do we do when the line of Wolsztyn - Żagań, about its liquidation is requested by self-government officials, all the mobs, mayors, still starosts and Marshals of the Civic Platform? Everyone in the team is signing proposals to take out a section of the railway line. [[They know better what they need.]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] The question is, what are we supposed to decide? On the one hand, there are questions from Members as to why this line will be removed and I am constantly referring to the proposals of local authorities, mostly related to the Civic Platform and to the PSL. What are we supposed to do? We need to find a solution. Mr Lassot, who wasn't here, asked... [[We'll pass it on.]] ...can I point? [[♪ The bell ♪]] any good side with regard to the predecessors. Ladies and gentlemen, having unlimited amounts of money that have not been used, it is difficult to do nothing. We are certainly improving and repairing this process and I am sure that it has now - I am talking about the investment process, the purchasing process - a normal, human face. This is beyond discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u175	Minister, you're welcome, because the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u176	Your marshal, I'm asking for another minute because it rained here very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u177	But it wasn't me who introduced it. It's the rules. One more minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! There were a lot of questions here about holding companies, about their inheritance after their predecessors. I assure you that these necessary repair processes, for example with regard to pendolino, this flagship example of lack of attention to order... It's not like the government of law and justice bought pendolino. You know who, by name, was behind this project. [[And lucky for you.]] Well, in this pendolino wi-fi will, certainly will be, in December, at the latest at the beginning of January. This is my assurance from the presidents of PKP Intercity. [[What year?]] This year. [[What about repairs? Who's responsible?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this debate, thank you very much for this discussion. I am convinced that we should have this debate here in this House, but in the area: at one time, the debate on passenger and freight transport, at another time of investment, at another time, matters relating, for example, to a common ticket, which we are declaring once again, will be this year. This declaration is made by Mr Mamiński, President of PKP SA present here. [[We believe that to the president.]] Mrs. Marshal! Thank you so much for your patience, thank you for allowing me to extend my speech. I ask those who recite my speech: consider that time is unfortunately limited and matter is enormous. [[But in writing, do we get answers?]] At the beginning of my speech, Mr President, I made it clear that all the answers to questions that are not...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u179	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u180	...they have been given here by me, they will be handed over in writing to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u182	Questions to the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. What is the Ministry doing to increase competition on the railways so that passengers have a greater choice of carriers, cheaper and better service quality? How long will it be difficult and prolonging the licensing of new carriers? Is the aim of regulation to ensure competition or to protect non-profitable companies providing low-quality services?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u183	I propose that the Sejm accept the information of the Minister of Infrastructure on the state of the Polish railway and the investments planned on it for information. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm... [[There's an objection, Marshal.]] We will join the voting block against the vote on the Minister of Infrastructure's information. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 43 hours 13 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants and persons employed in the financial sector (prints No 2287 and No 2372). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present a report on the Government's draft law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants and persons employed in financial sector entities, print No 2287. On 21 March this year. a joint meeting of the two committees was held during which the first reading was carried out and the draft law in question was examined. The aim of the bill is to legally define the grounds for protecting the ownership of financial sector entities and their clients by preventing abuse and, consequently, increasing the safety of trading. The financial sector should employ people of good repute because of its specific nature. To date, the lack of rules governing the issue of non-criminality in financial sector entities has prevented the acquisition and processing of information on the criminality of employed persons. At the first reading of the draft Parliamentary Club Law and Justice Act, three amendments were tabled. The first amendment concerned Article. 2 (2) Point 3 (3) clarifies the principles under which the performance of the fund's portfolio management activities is delegated. The second amendment concerned Article. 2 (2) Points 5 and 6 and contained three amendments. The first proposes that the right to investigate the non-criminality referred to in points 5 and 6 should be conferred on both service providers themselves and service providers through a dominant entity. The second amendment clarifies that it is a service provider to entities established in the territory of a State belonging to the World Trade Organisation, which is not a State of the European Union. In the third amendment, the word "directly' is deleted in point 6. The third amendment introduces after Article. 5 new Article. 5a, which aims to ensure that, at the request of a financial sector entity to which services are provided, an external entity makes a declaration on the non-criminality of persons employed by it who will be involved in the provision of services to a financial sector entity. The joint committees accepted the proposed amendments and the entire draft law. On behalf of both committees, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like the High Sejm to adopt a draft law on printing 2287 together with amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u185	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-criminality of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities, print No 2287. As I have already mentioned, when presenting the committee's report, the aim of this draft law is to create a legal basis to enable the ownership of financial sector entities and their clients to be protected by preventing abuse and, as a consequence, increasing the safety of trading. In the current state of law, there are no rules governing the issue of non-punishment in financial sector entities, so it is not possible to obtain and process information on the criminality of employed persons. However, given the scale of the risks associated with the activities of financial sector entities for the stability of the financial system and the need to protect market participants, including consumers, it is essential that employers of the financial sector are entitled to investigate the non-punishment of already employed and applicants for employment in these entities. Also in financial sector entities, there is currently no possibility of verifying employees and applicants for employment in terms of their non-criminality. This makes these less competitive players in the international market and may make it difficult to acquire new customers. Although the regulations proposed in the draft law are preventive in nature, they serve the public interest and are justified by the need to protect the freedoms and rights of others and the need to protect public order understood as the stability of the financial sector, which also serves to protect the security of the state and involves the constitutional principle of ensuring the security of citizens. This draft law regulates the rules for obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants for employment and persons employed in financial sector entities. As a general rule, information on non-punishment will be made available in the form of a statement. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce a standard according to which information from the National Criminal Register can be submitted. The project has adopted a closed catalogue of job-related offences in financial sector entities where it will be possible to verify candidates for work and already employed persons. Failure to make a statement or information from the National Criminal Register or to provide information confirming the conviction by a final judgment for a criminal offence may constitute a reason for not having an employment relationship or for not concluding another contract on the basis of which the work is to be carried out. In the case of a person already employed, failure to provide such information or information at the request of the employer confirming the conviction may constitute a reason for the termination of the employment relationship after termination. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice declares one amendment taking into account the earlier adoption of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and the precise date of entry into force of the Law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote on draft law from print no. 2287. Thank you very much, and I am handing over the content of the proposed amendment to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club in the matter of the bill being dealt with. Legal solutions on the basis of this project are a response to employers' expectations of extending their competence to obtain information on the non-punishment of persons employed or already employed. The idea of a draft law is undoubtedly worthy of approval, because employers can, on the basis of the current legal situation, verify employees' criminality only in a situation where such an obligation arises directly from the provisions. Such an obligation is currently imposed, among others. for judges, soldiers, civil servants, local officials, police officers and property protection staff. This draft law would extend to the subject matter of such an obligation by including a group of entities enumerated therein. It is not difficult to agree that professions carried out by entities operating in the wider financial sector often take on the characteristics of public trust professions, as as they are entrusted by customers with money, often representing their entire life savings, as well as data, and in particular sensitive data and all kinds of documents, become providers of valuable information or rights which can be easily used by them, but can give them a wide scope for numerous abuses. From history we already know cases that clearly show the financial market's vulnerability to the development of criminal activities. Unfortunately, there are no publicly available statistics that clearly indicate the scale of the crimes committed by employees in the financial sector. By the way, I am also asking the department whether it has such data at all in order to make a clear assessment of the scale of the crime to be faced. However, assuming that this is a common and widespread phenomenon, we must admit that it is clear that the creation of safeguards in the form of the possibility of investigating the criminality of workers in the financial sector can translate into a real increase in the safety of those using banking services. However, it should not be forgotten that, at the same time, we are walking on thin ice with such a problem. On the one hand, we have the security of the financial sector, the certainty of the financial market, the interests of customers, including consumers, and on the other hand we have interference in the sphere of freedom, the protection of personal data and restrictions on the collection of information about the person. Therefore, the project expects increased standards of caution and balance of conflict-of-law constitutionally protected goods, so that there is no abuse and use of information collected by employers to the detriment of workers. In addition, such regulations entail a certain risk of loss of confidence in the relationship between the employer and the employee and the introduction of an element of suspicion in the employment relationship. The adoption of such legal solutions may be linked to the conviction of potential employees that they need to disclose as much data as possible about themselves in order to get a job. Such practices also conflict with the current trend to tighten up the rules on personal data protection and may generate unnecessary pathologies in the labour market. The question also needs to be discussed as to whether the solutions introduced do not generate too high bureaucratic burdens and whether it would be sufficient to introduce an obligation, the requirement to make declarations of non-punishment by employed and employed workers. Employers already at the beginning of the recruitment process, which normally affects a much larger number of people, would have the opportunity to obtain from them a declaration of criminal liability that they had not been punished in the past. The direction of the changes contained in the project deserves a positive opinion, in particular from the point of view of the individual, i.e. the employer, as well as customers, and from a global perspective, i.e. the certainty of turnover, economic stability and financial security. In view of the above, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my willingness to support and proceed on the bill, subject to the need to work on detailed regulations and to examine existing doubts and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Długi, Kukiz.15. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u190	Dear Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members and Messengers! The competition in the financial sector is a competition of public trust and it cannot be surprising that such persons must actually be unpunished, they must not be on the market with the law. Such professions must give a sense of security to those who, however, entrust their savings, hard-earned money, all their possessions to these institutions. Therefore, it cannot be surprising that such a project is being examined. That's a good thing. The only comment we make is that if you impose an obligation, which means there are costs involved, then maybe you should take the costs. Of course, it's not a big money issue, it's a unit cost, right? These are some of the things I've had the pleasure of talking to the Minister about many times, as these relationships are to be arranged. It seems, of course, that these financial institutions will be able to deal with this extra fee calmly, but I mean the point itself, but shouldn't we always try, by imposing a duty, to take it on the back of all of us - taxpayers. [[On your shoulders.]] It is important that the unpunished do not sit in the corporate authorities, in the financial sector. We have the best proof of that now. Finally, there was the Amber Gold scandal, where Mr. P. had been punished before, and yet later he sat, he was enrolled in the KRS, or we also have irregularities in some cooperative savings and credit banks. It is important that these persons are always unpunished, it is worth that these persons have the obligation to produce a certificate, because in the case of a declaration, the person who wants to lead to some irregularities can simply testify to the wrong in this statement. Of course, it's being punished again, but it doesn't change the nature of things here. Therefore, the club Modern will support this proposal, and we will support the amendments tabled by the various Members. Well, thank you, thank you, Minister. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u191	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the two joint committees on the government draft law on the principles of obtaining information on the non-punishment of applicants and persons employed in financial sector entities, prints No 2287 and 2372, the latter is the report of the committee. The draft law introduces rules for examining the non-punishment of candidates for employment and persons already employed in financial sector entities or carrying out activities for those entities. In the current state of law, the employer may require information on the non-criminality of applicants only if the requirement of non-criminality arises from separate provisions. So without a clear legal basis, the employer does not have the right to require a certificate of non-criminality. The specific nature of the financial sector makes the employed persons or persons who are already working should have a good, blameless opinion. The implementation of the project will increase the safety of trading, prevent abuse and increase the credibility of our financial institutions in terms of customers and co-operating entities also internationally. On the basis of this project, the employer of the financial sector will have the right to require the applicant and the person already employed at certain employment positions to provide information on the possible conviction by a final sentence for certain offences. No criminal record may be made available in the form of a statement by the applicant or the worker, but also at the request of the employer in the form of a certificate from the National Criminal Register. The draft law provides that a certificate from the National Criminal Register may be issued only at the request of the person interested in employment or work, no more than once every 12 months, as well as at the time of the change of position. At the expense of issuing a certificate, employers requesting such certificates are to be charged. The first reading of this project took place at a joint meeting, as I have already mentioned, of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. During this meeting, the Polish Bank Association submitted a need, a request that the possibility of applying for a certificate of non-criminality in the national register could have banks themselves, which would definitely improve the whole procedure without all this bureaucracy in the form of the application and payment of the fee by the candidate for an employee or employee, and then the reimbursement of the costs by the banks. Unfortunately, the proposal was not approved by government representatives. In addition, the draft law contains a broad catalogue of financial sector entities as well as other entities affected by both rights and obligations under the law. On the other hand, the project does not introduce a catalogue of workstations requiring information on criminality, as this assessment is left to employers themselves, using the descriptive indications of the positions envisaged by the draft law. In the course of the work of the Joint Committees, a number of amendments have been made that are more precise in order to properly interpret the proposals contained in the draft. On behalf of my club, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to inform you that we will be in favour of further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u193	Thank you very much, Member. Two Members joined the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak again? If not, I invite you, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u194	Thank you very much. I want to return to the question, to this request made by the Polish Bank Association. They did so at the stage of the project's agreement, as well as during this meeting. It seems to me that this proposal on their part concerning a certain simplification of the procedure is appropriate. He would be a certain reduction in bureaucracy, and I think that's what we should all care about. I'll remind you, there's one rule: it's in conclusion, i.e. makes the employer's request, can submit the application only the interested one, so the employee, he pays the fee, then the employer returns it. And the bank here clearly suggests that, as a substitute for this employee or candidate, he may, as an institution, submit such an inquiry to the register, of course, behind the knowledge of this employee, because it is about the protection of personal data that such a thing will be. It would really be, I think, a simple simplification... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...the more that the bank suggests, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there is not even such a basis for reimbursement of that fee. So I would ask you to respond to this and possibly change your decision on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u196	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u197	Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Mariusz Haladyj, will answer the question. You're welcome. [[I join Mrs Tokarska's question, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u198	I know. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Here, as I understand, I am only referring to this question, which has been raised in this part of the question, which is no longer the issue raised in the speeches, but is the question of the question of the honourable Member. As I understand it, two things have been raised by the Member here, i.e. bureaucracy above all, yes? In fact, it's actually... I mean, yeah, first of all, we talked on the committee when we were thinking about this proposal. There was also a modification of this proposal, so that the employee would be informed that the bank would apply for it. If we add this operation, the number of operations performed in this operation, in quotes, is exactly the same as in the case of the employee himself and the financial institution returns only funds. But that's not the main problem, because if it were just a matter, I wouldn't have a problem with it. On the other hand, we have to weigh something else here, for example. Mrs Golbik, presenting the position of the Civic Platform Club, pointed out that we have an interest in financial institutions, the safety of the trading of customers, contractors, and on the other hand we have an interest in those persons to whom this request is addressed, and the protection of the privacy of those persons, right? So in my opinion, it is this provision that is now being proposed that protects or rather strikes me to say this business, because on the one hand we have the power to obtain this data in order to verify the persons so that we do not accept previously punished persons in this sector, and on the other hand we have interference with the right to privacy and sensitive data. And now that the bank's asking for data, for example... [[No, the bank protects the interests of individual customers more widely.]] Suppose Mariusz Haladyj volunteered to work at the bank and the bank is performing, either he's already working, but he wants to change his position. And now, if the KRK should check, for example, whether the bank has the basis for acting as me, so whether the bank will then have to provide information that this and this bank has, for example, come forward. in the recruitment process for me, i.e. I mean, to the bank as a recruitment, and I want to check it out, so, will the bank have to? Then the anti-bureaucratic argument is out of the question at all. If the bank exercises its entitlement, e.g. when changing positions or, as we have allowed, that he can update data about these employees every year, so, then will the bank also, then, should the KRK be forced to verify whether those conditions on the basis of which the bank or generally the financial institution may occur are met? In my opinion, in order to protect this right to privacy in a proper manner here, because we are limiting this regulation so as not to exceed certain limits that are not needed, the KRK should then be able to verify that it is not illegally providing this information to the person asking. If he has to verify, I can't imagine this verification operation because it's like a ten-fold more bureaucratic process than when an employee returns. So, protecting the interests of those to whom this question is addressed, in my opinion the best formula is when the employee himself, wanting to get to work, when this condition is required, asks for such a certificate, obtains such a certificate and this certificate brings it. This is the balance between the right to information of the bank or financial institution about job candidates or changing jobs already within the framework of the work and between the protection of privacy. I think it's because either the KRK doesn't have tools today to verify whether the institution is returning on the basis of legitimate grounds, or we'd have to create some kind of improbable verification procedure... For this reason, I believe that this solution, which is currently being proposed, best meets these conditions. Thank you. [[We don't necessarily agree, Minister.]] I'm sure of it. [[Because we want to protect people, not institutions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. And now I would very much like to ask the representative of the committee of the Nobleman to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for supporting this government bill. There was a broad discussion at two large committee meetings. The Member has also had the opportunity to express her views. We still have the opportunity to discuss the issues that have emerged here, but it is clear that even this preventive nature of these records does not determine that we need to take care of the interests of customers and financial institutions. Although we touch the principles of freedom of occupation, freedom of work, this public interest prevailed. Such records will serve the safety of customers and financial institutions well. Thank you very much to all the clubs for their support.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u202	Is it specified in the law on the basis of which the person was convicted? Will traffic offences, safety threats be treated as well as economic crimes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u203	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Act on driving vehicles (prints No. 2059 and 2285). I would very much like to ask Mr Mark Wójcik to submit a report to the committee. Before I give my vote to you, I would like to welcome the young people from the Primary School in Mietniów, the municipality of Wieliczka. We warmly welcome you and thank you for listening to the Sejm's deliberations. [[Applause]] I ask Mr Mark Wójcik to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u204	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the representatives of the ministry are still in the cockroaches, so I'd like to ask for a moment of time so they can come into the O.R. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate bill amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Vehicle Managers. The Supreme Izbo, the Senate, undertook to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 October 2016. The Court then assessed the compatibility with the Constitution of the rules which allow drivers to be removed from driving licences, who would exceed the permissible speed in the built-up area by more than 50 km/h. The Court found that the provisions in force are incompatible with the Constitution in so far as they do not provide for a speed exceeding of more than 50 km/h justified by a higher degree of necessity. The Senate has proposed not to retain a driving licence if the driver who violates the applicable rules acts to lift the immediate danger of life or human health. In practice, the implementation of this law would be based on the fact that e.g. It would be possible to refrain from punishing a woman in childbirth or from punishing a doctor travelling to a seriously ill person. According to the committee, however, the solution proposed by the Senate is not sufficient because it does not prevent a driver from punishing him who, in a higher degree of necessity, has broken the rules in order to protect other legally protected goods than life or human health. Besides, our doubts were also confirmed by the Office for Sejm Analysis, because in the course of the work on the bill we also asked for constitutional analysis as to whether the Senate project fully implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. This analysis confirmed our doubts. We have come to the conclusion that the scope of this counter-attribution provided for in this Act should be extended. Such a practical situation, where these provisions would apply, applies e.g. the case of a firefighter who, after all, calls to the CSR to go to the site of an incident when he decides to sacrifice the good which is safety in the road, at the time of the call he does not know whether he is sacrificing the good, because he is going to the scene where he will save life or human health, or he is going to a fire where he will save only someone's property. The subcommittee and then the committee decided to amend the law by replacing the requirement to save human life or health with a requirement to directly save a protected good if the danger of that good cannot be avoided in any other way. It is worth pointing out, it is worth recalling that the withdrawal from the retention of a driving licence will, of course, be exceptional. These circumstances will always be examined by an old woman who makes such a decision. The Starosta will have the opportunity, so far no such possibility, to simply withdraw from stopping the driver's license. I would also like to mention that, in the case of a mandate procedure, there were situations where the police decided not to punish someone with a mandate, while the rules did not allow such a person to be detained under the administrative procedure. Consequently, this law will actually bring about some kind of consistency in a situation where a person who is actually in a state of higher necessity will not have to surrender his driving licence when circumstances justify such an infringement. I would also like to mention that, with regard to the existing doctrine and approach to assessing the state of higher necessity, it has been established for many years that the state of higher necessity is not only a matter of saving life or health, but also of saving other legally protected goods. These legally protected goods, apart from life and health, can of course be property goods, but it can be e.g. preventing a natural disaster of great magnitude. That's why I'm asking you to accept this bill. I would like to point out that the committee adopted the proposal unanimously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u205	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Filipiak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u206	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Driving Vehicles, print No. 2059. The Senate bill aimed at amending two laws: the Road Traffic Law of 20 June 1997 and the Road Traffic Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles. The draft law implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 October 2016. The amendments were intended to refrain from punishing drivers of driving licences for driving at speeds exceeding the permissible speed by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area and for transporting more persons than the number of places specified in the registration certificate if the driver of the vehicle has committed an infringement, acting in order to remove the immediate danger of life or human health, if this danger could not be avoided otherwise and the road safety good represented a value lower than that of the saved good. On 10 January the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs during its 55th meeting. The Commission has set up a subcommittee, and as the rapporteur of the committee has just said, our doubts have raised what is necessary: that this is not just a threat to human health and life, but it is all good protected by law. Therefore, in an article which the Senate added to these two amended laws, in Article. 1 paragraph 1aa, we've made such a change. We have also extended the time that the old man has to make the right decision to retain or not drive. We've extended that time from 14 to 21 days. In summary, the Law and Justice Club supports the draft law adopted in the committee's report in print no 2285. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u207	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marek Wójcik, rapporteur, presented the whole procedure very specifically and in detail. Although this draft amending the bill is not long, it is extremely important. It is extremely important, because it concerns situations where, after all, there is a need to react, sometimes also in breach of the rules, and that is why the provision that allows such behaviour is important. The Senate, who has undertaken this task, rightly pointed out that in the event that it is a danger... Only that the Senate has limited this to health and life, but it has also failed to take account of other situations, such as what the Member has already mentioned, of the matter of the voluntary fire brigade. When I first read this, I also asked the Minister to look into it. The Minister didn't see the situation. Fortunately, Mr Marek Wójcik has consistently undertaken this task and has convinced everyone that such a solution must be envisaged, which also speaks of the danger of a protected good. It was accepted, as it was said, unanimously. In this situation, the Civic Platform Club also accepts this and will support it, will vote in favour of this bill amending. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, Kukiz15 also supports the project submitted. I think five-minute statements are completely unnecessary, because the case is so obvious, all clubs support it, that we can easily make up for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of continuing its legislative work. We'll support this project. My previous speakers, including the rapporteur, have made an in-depth presentation of his content in detail, so I am left with an end to my speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u213	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u214	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the efficiency of the procession under the guidance of your marshal is extremely rapid today, [[Applause]] So, of course, we should give it a round of applause. I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the Senate draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on driving vehicles after the presentation of the report of the committee. These are 2059 and 2285 prints. Well, ladies and gentlemen, basically the subject of this law is the proposal to include in the legal regulations a situation in which there is justified, because of the higher necessity, driving a vehicle with a permissible speed exceeding 50 km/h in a built-up area. The Constitutional Tribunal stated in its judgment that the regulation of the Road Traffic Law, in so far as it does not provide for situations justifying speeding, is incompatible with Article. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In the grounds of the judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that there is no clear indication in the Act that a person driving a vehicle in a built-up area at a speed exceeding the speed permitted by more than 50 km/h does not commit an act at risk of administrative sanctions in the form of retention of a driving licence if he is driving at such a speed in order to prevent or reduce the direct danger of a protected good, and this could not otherwise be avoided. And it is precisely as a result of not including this obvious collision in the existing regulations of a person, e.g. Life-saving or health-saving, in excess of the permissible speed in the built-up area, have been carried out under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 4 of the Act on driving vehicles serious consequences in the form of the loss of a driving licence. The proposal presented by the Senate to the High House, which is the subject of today's proceedings, will allow me to take into account the case of a collision of goods, which justifies the failure of the driver to comply with the traffic regulations. The consequence of this change will be the possibility of avoiding this sanction in the form of the loss of a driving licence in situations where the permissible speed is exceeded in a built-up area by more than 50 km/h due to this higher necessity. During the committee's work, it was decided that the Senate proposed in its Article. 1 and a further detailed definition of the protected good by the use of the wording "life and human health' will be replaced by the wording drawn directly from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. Good protected by law, since such a formulation better reflects the substance of the case. High Izbo! Given my position, it must be recognised that the Senate bill will have a positive impact on the situation of citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I now declare my support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The administrative retention obligation has been in place since May 2015. It is used in a well-known situation - when the driver, among others. it will exceed the built-up speed by more than 50 km/h, then the governor shall decide to retain the driving licence. Such a decision may only be issued if the document was received during a roadside inspection by the police. And here the question arises first of all who and how to verify whether the driver acted in a higher state of necessity. And at this point, if an amendment to the Road Traffic Law and the Vehicle Managers Act is adopted, the possibility that the speedier acted in a higher state of necessity will be accepted. Who will be able to waive this obligation: traffic cop, administration, court? It's basically about not being a dead rule, because cops will be afraid to use it, pointing out that there was a state of higher necessity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that they are not later accused of reacting in a bad way in the case of drivers who break the rules. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u217	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u218	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a question for the rapporteur. Of course, it is important that we know to what extent and who will be able to benefit from this, because he has just asked who will judge it. But could the Member give a few examples, say, of different bodies or institutions, for example. Will there be an ambulance that often rides the signal? What kind of service would you expect so... Of course, it depends on the situation, but in situations that may happen, what kind of service do you think they will be able to use? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u219	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We discussed who should be responsible for the process of stopping a driving licence in case of a higher necessity and the government was in the position that it should be directly a police officer. But during the debate in the Senate, mostly in the Senate, we agreed with the senators and agreed that it would be the one who was responsible for the whole process. As far as examples are concerned, I can give them. This is mainly about ordinary citizens, e.g. It will be a citizen bringing his sick mother to the hospital or a sick wife giving birth to his wife at the hospital. That's what we're thinking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u221	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u222	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe I can answer Mr Lassota's question. The caselaw so far distinguished the situation in which a person acts in a state of greater necessity when he is a private person from the situation in which such action would be a consequence of the performance of his duties. It has so much practical meaning, that e.g. These provisions will not be in my opinion for example. Police officers driving an unmarked police car. Here we had some kind of discussion during the committee's work. The possible introduction of some counter-attack for these people would require some further changes to the bill. On the other hand, even today, if the service, e.g. Ambulance, they're on the signal, then they don't have to comply with these traffic regulations. It's obvious. The greater problem was that of people who do not benefit from the status of a privileged vehicle, but are indeed in a higher state of necessity. For such persons, this law is provided for. That is why there have been situations where police officers sometimes deviated from punishing the driver with a mandate, seeing that the circumstances actually justified the sacrifice of the good, that is, the violation of traffic laws. On the other hand, the Starosta did not have the possibility to withdraw from the administrative decision in the form of a driver's license. Today, the governor will have the opportunity. In answer to the Member's question, of course, it will not be judged by a police officer, but it will be the decision of an old man. In this way, such a decision will also have the advantage of a detailed analysis, because such a person will always have the opportunity to try to demonstrate old age, that in its case there has actually been a higher necessity, and that the governor will have sufficient time to assess whether, in this situation, it is justified to withdraw from the driver's licence precisely because of an act of higher necessity. That's it. Thank you very much. [[You spoke too fast because we didn't have time to ask questions.]] Madame, I would be happy to reply if the marshal would allow the Member to speak. I'm at your disposal, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u223	I'll allow you to speak in the roundabouts. [[It's not the same, Marshal.]] Thank you for the time being. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle towards the Senate's draft law on amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Driving Vehicles. The draft law is related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 11 October 2016. The Constitutional Tribunal found that the Constitution was incompatible with the Constitution of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (4) and paragraph 1. 1c of the Act of 5 January 2011 on the Drivers of Vehicles in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1a (paragraph 1a) and the Law of 20 June 1997 on road traffic. According to the Court, the provisions of the Act relating to the driving of a vehicle with a speed exceeding the permissible speed by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area are incompatible with the Constitution. Individual regulations violate the principle that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice and the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. In accordance with the current regulations, the governor is required to issue a decision to retain a driving licence where the driver of the vehicle has exceeded the permissible speed by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area. As provided for in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1c, the governor shall issue a decision for a period of 3 months, giving its rigour of immediate enforceability and requiring the driver to return his driving licence, unless the document has been detained by a police officer. However, the Code of Offence does not provide for the application of a penalty such as a ban on driving. The administrative sanction does not provide that a policeman or an elder may include an excess of the rules as a state of higher necessity. In view of the above, the Court considered that such provisions should be included in the Act. In order to maintain constitutional standards, a change should be made. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports a record that will give you the opportunity to withdraw from stopping your driving licence if you find that the driver committed an act of exceeding the permitted speed by more than 50 km/h in a built-up area but acted in a higher state of need, following the desire to lift the immediate danger of life or human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u225	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers (Prints No. 2090 and 2325). I ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Infrastructure Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles, prints 2090 and 2325. On 29 March 2017, a draft amendment to the Act on driving vehicles concerning deaf and having a serious hearing loss was submitted to the Committee on Petitions by a private person. The proposed amendments were intended to make it clear that total or partial loss of hearing is not a health contraindications to the right to drive or to withdraw category C and C1 vehicles. After considering the petition, the Commission sent it to the Committee on Infrastructure, which deals with driving vehicles in substance. During the proceedings of the Committee on Infrastructure, an extraordinary subcommittee was set up, which I had the honour of chairing. High Izbo! The subcommittee met at the minutes and several informal meetings. In addition to parliamentarians, they participated, among others. representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, also attended the main doctor of occupational medicine, as well as representatives of groups and associations of deaf and deaf people. I would like to thank all those working in the subcommittee for their hard work, commitment, work for those with hearing problems. As a result of its deliberations on 9 and 25 January and 28 February 2018, the subcommittee presented the uniform text of the draft law. The Infrastructure Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meetings on 9 January and 6 March 2018, requests the High Sejm to adopt the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u227	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles, Print No. 2090 and 2325. In Polish legislation, deaf and deaf persons do not have the possibility to apply for a C and C1 driving licence due to their disability. Proposals for amendments to the Act indicate that hearing limitations are not a health contraindications to the possibility of obtaining a driving licence of categories C and C1, i.e. for trucks, excluding categories D and D1, which concern buses. When thinking about improving safety, it is also proposed that persons with the above disability can apply for a category C and C1 licence only after two years of possession of a category B licence, i.e. a passenger car. The amendment also gives the possibility for persons who pass the test and who are entitled within the meaning of the provisions of 19 August 2011 on sign language to benefit free of charge from the sign language interpreter proposed by the voivodship centre or the language and transmission system during the State driving licence C and C1 categories. High Izbo! The proposed amendment of the law gives a wider opportunity to employ hearing impaired people who, through their hearing restrictions, were eliminated from the labour market in the positions of truck drivers. The project will have a negligible impact on WORD expenditure, as the annual estimate shows that the number of people receiving and using Signal Translator services will not exceed 300 people, which allows to estimate the additional costs associated with providing a Sign Language Translator for a maximum amount of 20 000. PLN across the country. High Seym! It should be added that in many countries of the European Union, persons with disabilities in terms of total or partial hearing loss may apply for a category C and C1 driving licence. Moreover, they already drive on Polish roads and, according to research, do not create any danger in road traffic. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates the adoption of a proposed Commission proposal for a law on driving vehicles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club also supports the draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles originally contained in print no. 2090 and finally in the report in print no. 2325. It is worth noting that we are dealing with the legislative initiative of the committee, more specifically, the Committee on Petitions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, and this is an appropriate response to the speech of the citizen Mariusz Nowak. The draft law provides for the introduction of the principle that disability in terms of total or partial loss of hearing will not be a health contraindications to obtaining the right to drive or to withdraw it. Assuming that the new regulation will make it easy for people with disabilities to be able to work and to maintain a broad range of social contacts, it will also allow them to acquire new professional competences. Both the current state of technology and the experience of the European Union countries allow us to introduce the above mentioned. the principle without concern for the safety of other traffic participants. However, according to the new rules, this principle will not be absolute, since it will not apply to the D and D1 categories of driving licence - driving a bus often requires interaction with passengers. In the case of a category C and C1 driving licence, however, this rule will apply to persons holding a category B driving licence for more than 2 years. The new legal solution will also be suspended for category C and C1 driving licences for a period of one year after a significant loss of hearing due to an emergency. The draft law introduces a kind of novelty in the scope of the State driving test itself, because it will create people for whom the basic way of communication is sign language, the possibility of giving it free of charge with the help of a translator of this language. For these reasons, this project deserves support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that this is the second act in a short time, on which we agree, in which case we are able to get away from all these political disputes and speak in one tone in order to serve Poles. Without repeating the arguments that have been put forward, of course I assure you that I will recommend to the Kukiz Club15 voting for this bill as well. And taking this short notice, I'd like to wish the Marshal a happy birthday. Happy birthday, 100 years, or even 150, I won't limit it. Happy birthday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles after the presentation of the report of the committee - these are prints No. 2090 and 2325. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the project, which was created in response to a citizens' petition to the High House... I'd like to introduce a digression here. This is a very little-known measure that allows you to create a good law. Perhaps, as a parliament, we should inform citizens more about the possibility of petitioning, proposals for legal changes that meet citizens' expectations. As the practice and this example show, sometimes such a petition, if justified, can result in the preparation and adoption by the Sejm of a good law that meets the expectations of citizens. The bill on which we are proceeding is the answer to a petition to the High House. Its aim is to improve the situation of deaf and deaf people in such a way that the hearing defect will be a contraindication to obtaining a driving licence only in categories D1 and D and, in other cases, in categories C1 and C, namely if the person previously did not hold a category B driving licence or had a category B licence for less than 2 years or temporarily in the event of significant hearing loss. So in general, this project will allow deaf and deaf people to obtain a C1 and C driving licence. The project also introduces a legal basis for providing candidates for drivers by the Voivodship's traffic centres for sign language translators or access to the language/mig system. This means that a person with hearing loss will not be prevented from obtaining a C1 and C driving licence only because of hearing loss and will not be able to bear the costs of an interpreter during the exam. This solution will have a very positive social and economic impact. Those with hearing loss, so far it has to be said openly, discriminated against, will be able to apply for attractive work by professional drivers, which will also help to combat social exclusion. In addition, Poland is struggling with the deficit of drivers and therefore this solution should also have a positive impact on the economy. I must say - and I agree with the Member who represents the committee and is the rapporteur - that we worked very hard on this project during the meeting of both the committee and the subcommittee. We have looked at the different solutions existing in different countries, listened to many experts and everything is in favour of the proposed solution. That is also the sentence of the Modern Posel Club. Therefore, if we respond to the expectations of the deaf and deaf community, we will be happy to support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u235	Thank you. Mrs Wróblewska is not here. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is also in favour of continuing its work on the conclusion of the Commission's draft law on the amendment of the Act on driving vehicles. We believe that this is a project that meets the expectations and needs of people who have found themselves, often not because of their fault, in a difficult situation of partial disability. It is good that the project has passed, in such a consistent manner and intensive work, by the committee, the subcommittee and returned to the session. I think it will serve both people, the community and the economy well. We will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u237	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reason for this project is that the costs associated with providing a sign language translator on driving licences for deaf and deaf people were estimated at around 20,000. PLN across the country. First of all, I wanted to ask, where did this amount come from? On what basis was it calculated? Do the authors of the project have data on the number of such persons who pass the driving test? And there's another line. The 2006 European Parliament Directive on driving licences requires that the ability of a person with a hearing impairment to drive is subject to medical assessment. Therefore, are the changes made in line with this Directive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Citizens with disabilities cannot be discriminated against when it comes to the right to drive. The important question is whether the disability in terms of total or partial hearing loss can be considered as a medical contraindication for applying for a category D1 or D - known, buses - C1 or C - vehicles with a total weight exceeding 3.5 t, except buses. And here's the question: Why do the drafters want to introduce a division in access to the rights of the above mentioned law. categories of driver's licenses? The disability of total or partial loss of hearing will continue to be a contraindication for entitlement to drive vehicles of category D1 or D or a condition for its withdrawal. And now what if a person with a hearing aid -- all the time this technology is moving forward -- at some point it will eliminate hearing loss, what if the person does, however, apply for D1 or D ratings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, there is no doubt about this law, it is important to lean on the problems of people with disabilities. And now I'm thinking so gently to the PiS. We will support your bill. Maybe you'll also come from the so-called Seym. The freezers pulled out a draft law on trajekas. Let me remind you that the traverses are tricycles, you can say it's half a motorcycle, half a car. Trails often drive or want to drive disabled people. The problem is that you need a category driver's license to ride a traverse A. We know that a person with a disability of the legs of a category driving licence He'll never do it. That's enough, you can't get a category driver's license either. And because we're not able to do a practical exam on the square. We propose that a traverse can be driven by category B, because in fact this vehicle behaves almost the same way. He doesn't waver like a motorbike on corners, he acts like a passenger car, so I think it's a sensible change that works in other countries. It's worth leaning on, and that's what I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u244	Thank you very much. I don't have to say that anymore, do I? Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very good move, it seems, to allow those who have a hearing loss to use the technique. But I have a question. I do not know whether it has been analysed whether, due to the safety of other traffic participants, or, in fact, of the person driving the vehicle, it would not be advisable that the vehicle that drives such a person should be somehow marked so that other traffic participants can see it and exercise some caution. Because if you have a hearing loss, especially total hearing loss, you have some limitations. I know that there may be such comments at once, that this is labeling, but the issue of road safety is an important issue, it is a fundamental issue. I have a question: Has this matter been examined, are there any lessons learned from it, and should not such labelling be introduced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u245	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to express my appreciation for another good initiative of the Committee on Petitions of the Republic of Poland. In February, we looked at regulations that make it easier for people with disabilities to obtain qualifications and qualifications - I am thinking here about driving licences - which make life easier and help them to function in the labour market. This next project is part of the implementation of provisions that not only talk about access to goods and services enabling people with disabilities to participate fully in the open labour market in accordance with qualifications, but also give the next group of people the opportunity to benefit from the current state of technology, taking into account the experience of other countries where people with disabilities can be, for example. Truck drivers. Polish drivers with such disabilities have been discriminated against until then. Thank you so much for this initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u248	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! According to current regulations, a deaf person may obtain a driving licence but may not pursue the occupation of driver. The Sejm Committee on Petitions, which I am pleased to be a member of, supported the proposal for an amendment to the law with very important changes in this area. I would like to point out that deaf Poles are still Poles, citizens of this country. Yes, they are certainly a linguistic minority, but this cannot be a condition for discrimination, for restricting civil rights, especially in such a tolerant country. Deaf as Polish citizens should be treated equally with others, while Parliament should be a model, especially for different kinds of institutions, and should ensure equality of rights. There are almost 1 million people in Poland who have hearing problems. This figure will grow, for example, due to an ageing society. Some consider hearing loss to be a civilizational disease. The sounds that surround us, the noise adversely affects the hygiene of the hearing. Of course, deafness and slow hearing loss are not identical, but the law very often discriminates everyone in wholesale, and after proper training deaf people can drive a car like full-time drivers, at a similar level, and sometimes even better than them. This is due, for example, to the fact that the imperfection of one of the senses causes sharpening of the others. Thanks to this, deaf people often better read the movement of the vehicle and what happens in its surroundings. Do we have the right to discriminate against others? [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. I hope we can all support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u249	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We just got data from the voivodship traffic centers on 20,000. PLN and the number of persons who would be covered by such examinations. This research has just been carried out for the purposes of this regulation. As far as the Directive is concerned, of course this is in line with the Directive, which is applied in other countries, there is no problem here. With regard to the possibility for a disabled person to obtain a category C1 and C driving licence when it is fully operational and could apply for a category D1 or D driving licence, in our opinion this is the role of a medical examiner, he will decide on this possibility. As far as vehicle labelling is concerned, we have considered this story, but we believe that today's technology allows drivers with these deficiencies to achieve practically full functionality, so why exactly should we distinguish them in motion when they are perfectly prepared and practically function just like any other driver? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u251	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Paul, if he wishes to take the floor. [[No, no.]] You don't want to, thank you very much. In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarni Circle on the draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles. In the current state of law, we are facing difficulties in applying for a D1 or D licence, i.e. buses, and C1 or C, i.e. vehicles with a total weight exceeding 3.5 t, by persons with a total or partial hearing loss. The explanatory memorandum of the proposed law rightly points out that: "In the current state of technology, also taking into account the experience of many countries where deaf people can be drivers of trucks and experiences from Polish roads, on which people drive trucks on foreign registration plates - there is no justification for maintaining the current ban in Poland, which discriminates against a group of people with disabilities. While hearing impairment or full loss of hearing may be a contraindication to obtaining a bus driver's license where contact with passengers is required, the limitations on driving trucks at today's state of technology and medicine are no longer valid. It is estimated that about 100,000 are missing in Poland. professional drivers. Inclusion of deaf people among those who can become professional drivers may be one way to fill the gaps in the transport sector. It is worth adding that the bill is a reaction of the Polish Sejm to petitions by Mr Mariusz Nowak, a citizen of Zawiercie, who pointed out that the rules in force contain unnecessary limitations for people with hearing impairment. This shows that there is a social need for change. In addition, the proposed law introduces changes related to the way people with hearing loss pass the driving licence test. In this way, they will be able to use the help of a sign language translator during the exam - without the need for additional fees. In this way, the chances of all those who pass the driving test will be evened out. The exact wording in the article. Paragraph 56 4: At the request of the applicant who is a qualified person within the meaning of sign language regulations, the voivodeship road centre shall provide free assistance to the sign language translator during the State driving licence examination. The proposed rules will increase competitiveness in the labour market of hearing impaired people. This will enable them to integrate effectively into society. The Polish economy will also benefit from the changes, because there will be people who will be able to do the driver's profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u253	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Penal Code Act (Prints No 2290 and 2346). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Penal Code Act, print No 2290 and 2346. The Sejm at its 60th meeting on 20 March 2018 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The committee held its meeting on the same day, i.e. 20 March 2018 The meeting was attended, among others. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patryk Jak, together with his colleagues, Deputy Director General of Prison Service Marcin Strzelec, together with his colleagues, as well as General Paweł Nasiłowski - Deputy Minister of Justice for the Republic of Poland. the implementation of the electronic surveillance system. The assumptions of the project were presented by Minister Patrick Jak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. The project is intended to allow for more effective supervision of convicted offenders. This will be done on the one hand by taking private supervision of the electronic surveillance system from the State and, on the other hand, by extending the technical possibilities for the use of the electronic surveillance system. Thanks to portable recorders under electronic supervision will be, among others. possible direct contact with the convicted person and a more accurate diagnosis of his whereabouts, which is not possible in today's legal situation. During the committee meeting, all the regulations of the project were systematically discussed. Drafting amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau were accepted. The draft was adopted by the committee with no objection, and three Members abstained. Therefore, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print No 2346. I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation you and your fellow Members, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u255	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Code Act. As I said at the first reading, we agree with the objectives that led the Council of Ministers in preparing this project. These include increasing the competence of the Prison Service within the framework of the electronic surveillance system, as well as broadening the technical capacity to use portable recorders in this system. We positively evaluate the work in committee, the amendments adopted. In our view, the amendment gives us the chance of continuous and efficient execution of penalties in the electronic surveillance system. As a result, even in the event of serious critical events, when an authorised private body overseeing the execution of penalties in an electronic surveillance system fails, the new regulation will allow for a smooth take-over by the Prison Service. On the other hand, the supply of a mobile recorder will not only enable telephone contact with the surveillance authority, but will also ensure that the location of its stay is controlled in real time, even if the power source in the basic technical device, which is the GPS transmitter, is exhausted. In our view, the proposals will improve the functioning of the electronic surveillance system, therefore, by acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports the adoption of the law by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u257	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that our discussions are being listened to by young people from the Primary School in Mietniów from the municipality of Wieliczka. Welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u258	Dear Marshal, Minister! The position of the Civic Platform Club in this matter is as follows. We acknowledge that the Ministry of Justice wants to enable the Prison Service to carry out certain activities within the framework of the electronic surveillance system. According to the data we have, as of 31 January 2018, less than 5 000 were carried out in the electronic surveillance system. penalties, criminal and protective measures. I would like to say that the electronic surveillance system allows permanent but discreet control of the behaviour of the convicted person. I would like to say that we are also in favour of extending this form of imprisonment. We would like - and I hope that the Minister of Justice will monitor this - that the Penitentiary courts would be more willing to rule on this form of punishment. We are interested in the data - and this will be a question to the Minister of Justice - concerning the determination of this form of imprisonment in the case of maintenance offences. This issue, as I have already mentioned, has been highlighted by the Ombudsman, as well as by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. I would like to point out that, in general, the introduction to the Polish system of alternative penalties for imprisonment in prison is particularly important now, and this extension of the catalogue of non-insulating penalties and measures was in line with international recommendations such as. recommendations of the UN General Assembly and the Committee on Torture Prevention. So we take note of this decision by the Minister of Justice. In the vote on this amendment to the Prison Service Act, we will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and the Enforcement Code Act following the presentation of the report of committees, prints no 2290 and 2346. High Izbo! The project introduces solutions on the basis of which the Minister of Justice will be able to entrust the performance of work related to the electronic surveillance system to the Prison Service. Until now, as has been said here, the Prison Service has operated and operated only monitoring centers, other activities are carried out by companies selected in tenders. These new provisions proposed by the Ministry will allow the right to extend the powers of the Prison Service to perform other tasks impermanently related to the execution of the prison sentence and to limit the freedom of the electronic surveillance system, but only on the basis of the Minister's own decision. This means that private companies will automatically be excluded from the market if they decide to transfer their competences to the Prison Service. As the Minister mentioned during the presentation both at first reading and later during the debate, it is of course a different derivative or a derivative of another vision of the organisation of this system. As I think it should be understood - this draft and the words of the Minister - the government is going to entrust all tasks to the Prison Service, and the proposal itself, ladies and gentlemen, to include in the law such an option of optional execution of tasks by the Prison Service is not wrong. I think we can imagine even such a situation here and ask why it was not in the first version of the law. If, on the other hand, the proposal made today by the PiS government is combined with the natural pursuit of the camp governing centralization, the concentration of power in one hand, we will combine it with a lack of trust. Even to Polish companies which start in tenders which carry out orders to the State, and already mentioned by me, the Minister's total freedom to shape this decision, and we will refer these proposals presented by the Ministry to similar activities carried out in the past by the PiS, the support of such a law is highly risky. Firstly, because there is a high likelihood that this decision will not be based on reasonable financial grounds, on such grounds as to clearly indicate that, in view of the efficiency of public spending and the well-being of this public sphere, a change is necessary. On many occasions Poland has found that PiS does not count for a public penny, that public funds are spent without recollection. And so it may be in this situation that this decision will have a basis other than rational, ideological, but certainly not economic. Secondly, this decision could cause chaos. Many times the changes thus introduced by the government during the last 2.5 years have brought chaos. Poles know this and I think that under such an appearance of reform there were changes that made chaos. And now if you are proposing another revolution in the next system, then you must bear in mind that this revolution can also cause chaos. It is also important for modern society that the decision to remove private companies and entrust the tasks of the Prison Service will result in further expansion of the state administration. And here it is extremely alarming, Minister, that this time it will happen again at the expense of private companies and employees who work in these companies. However, with all understanding of the idea of these changes, there are elements that need to be taken into account in a very serious way. Hitting Polish companies, in Polish workers should not be the result of parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, listen to this debate until the end, as usual, with the words of the Minister, and in the vote we will take a decision on the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u261	Thank you. Our debate is also listened to by young people from Staszów and we welcome it as warmly as young people from Mithniowo. [[Applause]] And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last year the Polish Prison Service finally received along with other services, among others. With the police, the modernization bill. Until now, previous governments have mainly been involved in the administration of services, maintaining the status quo. Meanwhile, the services, especially the Prison Service, required decisive, almost resuscitation measures. Few people are aware of this, but Prison Service is the third largest uniform service in Poland. It is therefore a good thing that there is a plan for modernising the Prison Service here in Parliament. In particular, it welcomes the allocation of further resources to increase the competitiveness of the remuneration of officials. This is extremely important in our view. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, by the way, that we are still waiting for the modernisation of the prosecutor's office, which last year was stopped despite the proposal presented by the Minister of Justice of the prosecutor general. It cannot be that supervision of modernised services, e.g. The police have an unmodern prosecutor whose infrastructure is deplorable and who pays his administrative staff not even wages, but benefits, at the level of welfare funds. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Returning to the Prison Service, I would like to point out that investment in this service should be investment in people, in the Prison Service staff. We are talking mainly about investments in wages. And this is indeed the most important thing that the service of the state should not be paid worse than the service of German or Portuguese owners of multi-surface shops. But we are also talking - and this is what the project is about - about investments in the professionalization of human resources, i.e. professional training. Therefore, a new chapter is due to be included in the Act: Education of Prison Service officers and employees. In particular, he is pleased that the authors have noticed that prison services are not only officers, but also... [[That's not the bill.]] ...civil workers. In our assessment, the law will increase transparency in the recruitment process to the Prison Service, standardise and raise the level of... [[That's not the bill.]] ...education and qualifications of employees. It will therefore be an important part of the process of modernising and professionalising the Prison Service. In our view, it is desirable and part of the policy of modernising services to set up a prison service institution. We are convinced that this is the way to specialize in education, and consequently to ensure its higher level of the whole formation and as a result of improving the safety of Poles. The Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of the project. It serves what is particularly important to us, namely strengthening the state, strengthening the safety of Poles and Poles. It's security that's in the hands of uniform formations. One of the most important is the Prison Service. It must be done by well-educated, well-equipped, and above all, what I would like to stress, well-replaced officers. We as opposition support the right initiatives, but we will be watching whether the modernisation processes are moving in the right direction and at the right pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u263	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u264	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! There were not a series of questions, but the questions were included in the speeches of representatives of individual clubs, so I will allow myself a quick answer. The Member expressed some kind of doubt about this direction which we are about to adopt at the moment, i.e. that this task will eventually be carried out - possibly, I stress - by the Prison Service. I remember our discussion at first reading when I said that there were, of course, different systems within which this task could be carried out: either a private entity or a mixed system - that is what is mixed - or only a public-law entity. Let me put it this way: there is danger when a private entity carries out this kind of task. Of course, it's a matter of supervision. It is known that the monitoring unit is already running the Prison Service today. On the other hand, when it comes to the latter element, it is dangerous when it is done by a private entity. You might have doubts about that. Why? Because a private entity may fall, just as any company may fall. This is a kind of contract, and since the contract is not executed by the other party, then there are always doubts, because such an agreement can be terminated, and when it comes to convicted persons who are serving in the electronic surveillance system, someone has to deal with this system. And that's why it's always safer in my opinion if we have state control here. Why? Because you won't fall. Of course, I do not prejudice the case, because this provision is so designed that the Minister of Justice will decide whether it will be done by the Prison Service or whether it will be done by a private entity. This is not exactly the case that private entities have been marginalised and will therefore not be able to receive any funds from the fact that the system is functioning. An example is the infrastructure, the devices that are supplied to the system, all the technology that is supplied to it. There are tenders, they will certainly be. And that's what private companies are going to be involved in. On the other hand, there is a far-reaching doubt as to whether the possibility of exercising supervision alone as such can only be left to private companies, which is why we have the right to ensure that the Prison Service is the entity which, on behalf of the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the State, is practically dealing with this oversight. As far as the issue of the system itself in the case of non-maintenance offences is concerned, from data from several days ago literally given to me just before the appearance, it appears that the total number of persons covered by the electronic surveillance system is now 5017, of which 4956 are persons who were sentenced to imprisonment, 57 are persons sentenced to the restriction of liberty and 4 are persons protected by the SDE, On the other hand, as far as non-alimentation crimes are concerned, these are 542 people. This means that about 10% persons are subject to those penalties for which they have been convicted of a non-alimentation offence. Of course, we also want this system to be developed as much as possible, but please bear in mind what is the very idea of its functioning, what are the rules that concern the possibility of using the electronic surveillance system. Well, there are various parties who can claim that the court really decides to give such a judgment - the Penitentiary Court - but this person must accept it. So, of course, the penalty that is imposed in the electronic surveillance system is ten times lower than in the case of a person's imprisonment in prison - it costs the taxpayer 10 times less - but the system is that the person has to give his consent, that is the law. On the other hand, the issue of the use of recorders is simply about increasing control over the implementation of electronic surveillance systems. It will be possible to contact a person and issue their commands via a portable recorder - I say it so technically, and it is really a phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u266	I have the honour on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Prison Service and the Law of the Penal Code implementing 2290 and 2346. The aim of this project is to enable the Minister of Justice to delegate tasks belonging to the supervising entity of the electronic surveillance system to the Prison Service, the SDE. The revision will also be relevant in the case of possible further modifications to the provisions relating to the SDE, e.g. the inclusion of persons temporarily arrested under the so-called scheme. house arrest. According to the authors of the project, the introduction of such modifications during the duration of the contract with the private company selected in the tender would require that this agreement be annexed and that new provisions be agreed, which will not be necessary when these tasks are carried out by the SW. Currently, the Prison Service operates the SDE Monitoring Centre. As part of this activity e.g. record any interruption or communication with the transmitter held by the convicted person and notify the probation officer and the court of non-compliance with the responsibilities of supervision. On the other hand, a private company - selected as part of the tender - performs the tasks of the supervising entity, i.e. establishes and removes the transmitter, installs the stationary recorder in the doomed house and controls the correct operation of these devices and immediately removes the malfunctions. These tasks relate inter alia. with the need to send so-called. Field patrols to the places of residence of the convicts. The aim of the project is to withdraw private actors from the SDE system and take direct control of the whole system by the subordinate Justice Minister of the Prison Service. In the assessment of applicants, the proposals will improve the functioning of the electronic surveillance system in Poland. Whether they improve, this project is another element of the wider picture. We are talking about the tendency of the current power to centralise and nationalise further areas previously supported by private, local or non-governmental entities. We are not enthusiasts of this vision of the state and society, especially since often entrusting public tasks to private companies or local governments contributed to the fact that these tasks were carried out more effectively. More important than the transfer of further prerogatives under the wing of the Minister of Justice, it seems that portable recorders under electronic supervision appear to be used more frequently in Poland. At the moment, their use is small. Electronic surveillance is a very beneficial system for both the penitentiary system and the convicts themselves. This system allows the convicted to contact the family and reduces the population of the penitentiary units. It's also cheaper to keep. On this we should focus, High Izbo, on the broadest possible application of this form of sanctions, instead of overcrowded or overcrowded prisons, and transfer further powers to the Prison Service and the Minister of Justice. The sole desire to change the electronic surveillance system should be commended because it needs to be repaired. However, we hope that we will see further steps by the government to promote the application of the system, not just the transfer of competences in this area from one institution to another.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u267	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 24 hours 15 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws (prints 2216 and 2321). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws. The Extraordinary Commission for Change in Codifications considered the draft at its meetings on 6 and 21 March 2018. During the committee's work, two amendments were tabled. The first amendment concerns detailing and adding one of the requirements to the application so that in any case the court can assess whether or not there is a limitation of the claim covered by the application. Therefore, there is a proposal to amend the Article. 118 Code of Civil Procedure, so that this element is a mandatory part of the lawsuit. The second amendment, a transitional amendment, concerns information in the economic information register. In conclusion, of course, the committee requests the adoption of the draft, including two amendments adopted in the committee, and further work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u269	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Waldemar Buda again, this time on behalf of the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present a position in full support of the proposed proposal. It is a project by many expected environments. This is a project that actually resulted from social proposals. proposals from environments that pointed to a major problem, the problem of not taking into account ex officio limitation, the failure to take into account limitation in legal proceedings. This caused many problems of lack of activity on the part of the debtor has repeatedly led to the judgment of the statute of limitations. The public has a lot of knowledge about the time limits themselves, how to calculate them, and very little information is available on how to defend itself against outdated claims. Hence, there were many dramas and misunderstandings resulting from the fact that the debtor's passiveness nevertheless resulted in the judgment of the debtor. Therefore, the direction of the bill is as correct as possible. This clarification, which was included in the committee's report, is absolutely right, as it is already clear today that the creditor will have to include this information in the lawsuit. The Court of First Instance will have no doubt as to whether the claim is valid or not, so it will not have to supplement the evidence, and it would indeed be a problem of its own motion. Secondly, this will not prevent payment orders from being issued, and in this respect there were doubts. In conclusion, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice obviously supports the draft and asks for the bill to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u271	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Gawlik from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position regarding a government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws in print bearing the number 2216. The proposed act intervenes, amends four laws, amends the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Enforcement Act in the Administration and the Act on Economic Information Sharing and Exchange of Economic Data. In general, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that this law deals with the effects of the passage of time. I have repeatedly referred to the importance of time for the life of each of us, the role of time in everyday life, but also the importance of time from the point of view of civil law. The legislator sees it. All of these institutions are referred to as the so-called. A number of legislative initiatives have been undertaken since 1990. So far, initiatives in the field of civil law have been moving towards extending the time in which this protection or enforcement was possible. The amendment proposed in that act aims to shorten this essential limitation period from a 10-year period to a 6-year period. I do not want to wonder, to question, that the number 6 is better or worse than the number 10, I leave this issue on the side, but the important thing that bothers me is, firstly, the fact that this change will affect a number of civil law institutions, not only the institution of past and limitation of claims, was in the previous statement. We attach this change to the statute of limitations, but we already find a number of institutions in private law that refer to the limitation of claims, and in many cases they will also apply. This should be borne in mind when making this change. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have also raised the question of surprise to those creditors who so far believe that protection, their subjective rights will be able to exercise for 10 years, but after this law enters into force, their right to claim will be reduced by 4 years, because we are talking here about a month's vacathio legis. At the same time, it follows from the draft law that the provisions of that law would apply to all claims which existed on the date of the entry into force of that law. For this reason, the Civic Platform Civic Club proposes to amend its Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The club proposes the wording: to claims arising before the date of entry into force of this Act and on that date the statute of limitations on the current burden applies. This change, first of all, will ensure full protection for those who might expect this protection and, second, eliminates any risks that might arise. Here the Minister argued that they would not appear, because all Poles who are interested know that the government has prepared such an amendment. Such an amendment is procedated. If necessary, they will do their utmost to protect themselves from the negative effects of this change. I don't know. Moreover, there is simply a second problem that these relevant provisions apply, as I mentioned, to a number of other institutions, and this does not only apply to claims. Consequently, we also propose deletion in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. I am convinced that this amendment will do nothing in terms of the proposed changes, that it will ensure that this objective of shortening this basic limitation period is achieved, while at the same time ensuring consumer protection. I don't know, needed, unnecessary, doesn't want to discuss the issue of this change. Perhaps it is necessary, and at the same time it will simply make sure that no one, as a result of the entry into force of this law, will be harmed in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u273	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski will give his position in writing. Marshal Dolnyak, I can't see. Mr Paszyk Krzysztof, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws, seym prints 2216 and 2321 respectively. The draft provides for changes which relate primarily to the reduction of the basic limitation period from 10 to 6 years in the case of claims relating to the pursuit of business activities and to periodic benefits. Another important time limit is to be changed when the existence of a claim in a judgment or settlement is established. Once that decision has become final, the limitation period begins to run again. Today it is 10 years old. The draft also provides for changes concerning judicial and administrative executions from the bank account. Since 8 September 2016, the enforcement authority has been able to take over the debtor's bank account by electronic means. At present, banks are obliged to transfer the amount seized without delay, which prevents the debtor from defending itself, even if the occupation is unfounded. This is a problem which is very often signalled, also reported to the parliamentary offices, which I have personally experienced. However, such a procedure will not be possible if the bailiff takes the account to collect the maintenance due or the pension due from the debtor, e.g. to the victim. The authors of the project also predicted a different way of calculating the expiry of the limitation period. The limitation period shall end at the end of the last day of the calendar year, which shall not apply to limitation periods of less than 2 years. High Izbo! It is well known in Poland for buying out outstanding claims by debt companies, which are then used against people who are unaware of their rights. We therefore welcome the introduction of the obligation of the courts to examine whether the claim is valid. If, after examination of the evidence, the court finds that the limitation period has expired, the action will be dismissed and no action by the debtor will be necessary for that purpose. This provision should put an end to the unfairness of some debt collection companies and, if not, at least limit this undoubtedly harmful social activity that is taking place. At present, long limitation periods cause costs, forcing debtors to archive documents for years to prove their debt. Long periods of limitation also lead to pushing courts with small cases. In the context of the debate on change, the desired changes in the judiciary, the justice system, any element which will limit this crowding, in quotes, of small cases is as desirable and socially desirable as possible. To conclude, High Izbo, I would like to say that the project's assumptions are as positive as possible by our parliamentary club. Therefore, we see no obstacle to this project being supported by the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u275	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the modern club on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Civil Code Act and some other laws, print no. 2216 and 2321. The fact that the limitation period is being reduced from 10 to 6 years seems in principle a good solution, especially since in many countries this limitation period is similar in such situations. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 125 of the first Civil Code shortens this limitation period. We think it's the right thing to do. On the other hand, I will not hide the fact that some controversy and some of our reservations raise the provisions of the article. 117 § 2 Civil Code, because in our view it is unacceptable to introduce it in the article. 117 § 2 The Civil Code requires the court to examine the limitation of the statute of limitations and to limit the planned regulation only to claims against consumers. The justification for the project states that the application by the court of the substantive law in question contained in the proposed article. 117 § 2 The Civil Code cannot be identified as the conduct by a court of office of evidence in a civil trial which is in principle of an adversarial nature and based on equality between the parties. It is not true, however, that the court will not take into account the circumstances of its own motion, whether or not there has been a limitation on claims against the consumer, because such categoric regulations will always be taken into account by the court of its own motion. Such regulation eliminates the basic principle of civil process, which is the principle of adversarial conduct. Where the court is able, of its own motion, to rule on the limitation of a claim brought against the consumer, the role of the consumer as well as a possible procedural agent in a civil trial will be relatively severely restricted. On the other hand, the burden of command will be transferred to an entrepreneur who will be obliged to demonstrate that there has been no limitation. There is a breach of the article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. Social justice cannot be spoken of if one of the parties to the commitment relationship continues to be privileged to the other. Moreover, there are currently many consumer protection laws in the Polish legal order, such as: The consumer credit law, which in its regulation contains many standards that protect not only rights but also consumer property and economic interests. Therefore, and with reservations as to the constitutionality of this Act, the Modern Law will not be able to support this Act in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u277	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first one and, so far, the only question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The original version of the amendments provided for only a 30-day time for the entry into force of this law. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that financial institutions may have considerable difficulties in implementing it. They must adapt their systems to new legal standards. The process of bailouts in banks is completely automated. Their representatives drew attention to this fact during the work of the committee. There was a proposal to extend vacathio legis to 6 months. It has become apparent that the law enters into force 30 days after the date of publication, except that the rules on claims in Article. They shall enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. I wanted to ask you if there is a risk that this time is not too short for banks to adapt their ICT systems to the changes they are making. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u279	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mrs Navel's question just now, I would like to say that, indeed, the initial submission provides for a 30-day term for vacathio legis, with the first point of view that this project is not new, it is government and it has been under review for a long time, for a good few months. And this is the time that needed to be used to prepare for the effects of the law's entry into force. Therefore, it is not that the legislator gives 30 days to adapt, which may actually be technologically difficult for some entities to whom obligations under this law are imposed, but only those 30 days should actually be multiplied by the number of months during which the project is procedated. It is of course well known to the public because it has been posted on the pages of the Government Legislative Centre and sent for consultation, including entities representing the banking industry, the debt collection industry, etc. The Ministry of Justice and the Government therefore believe that the adoption of a 30-day deadline will not result in the failure to comply with the obligations arising from the Act, including those relating to the adaptation of information systems. What is more, indeed, because of the votes that appeared at the meeting of the Sejm Committee, to which you have also referred, a three-month period instead of a 30-day deadline has been adopted where, in fact, in technical terms, more system modifications are required. This is a tribute from the rapporteur and the committee, and I think it may be a tribute from the High House to these actors, so that any failure to meet this deadline can actually be eliminated. It appears that the three-month period for fulfilling the obligations under Article is three months. The second paragraph of the Act is sufficient, especially when the circumstances I have already mentioned are taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I refer this proposal to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities (prints No. 2184 and 2341). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The protection of national heritage is, of course, one of the fundamental tasks of the State. This applies to the legacy of both our homeland and abroad, often collected in institutions created for years by Polish emigration and by those institutions with care. Under existing law, of course, these institutions can apply for funding, whether in programmes or in competitions, but it is clear that they are unfortunately not sufficient and, above all, do not give a certain degree of stability, which is important for this type of activity. The aim of this law is to provide permanent financial assistance to Polish cultural institutions located abroad, simply to create an institutional framework enabling them to provide permanent sources of funding. The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 20 March expressed its support for the draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u283	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The reason for the amendment of the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities is the need to remove legal obstacles to the provision of permanent financial assistance to Polish cultural institutions located abroad and whose rank and nature leave no doubt about the need to involve the Polish state in guaranteeing their sustainability, caring for them and making their resources available to both the Polish society and the foreign community. This is the essence of the need to amend the said bill as indicated in the justification for the Senate project. Indeed, these souvenirs and traces of devoid Poles from their homeland, heroic insurgents and all employees of national cases condemned by invaders, invaders and invaders to exile and exile are priceless national goods and very often testify to the great Polish contribution to the civilization of countries and societies around the world. Therefore, the Polish state rations and Polish national interests require that they remain faithful to these souvenirs and traces of Polishness, to cultivate them permanently and permanently, i.e. institutionally, to secure their reception. This is an obvious requirement of active patriotism, the constitutional factor of which is always national pride. At the same time, all these historical traces of Polishness spread around the world completely discredit and dissuade all attempts to label patriotism with these locust adjectives - anti-European, pro-European, modern, open, closed, private, walled, etc. - because all these great Polish exiles, although sometimes so different, understood the heat and infallibility of only one patriotism: Polish. For these ideal reasons, the revised Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities introduces the possibility of financing activities in the field of culture and the protection of national heritage outside the Republic of Poland within the public finance sector, i.e. the state budget, including the possibility of providing ad hoc financial assistance. High Seym! This is my justification given to the High Sejm, which means the clear support of the Law and Justice Club in voting on the proposed amendments. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u285	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to recommend to you the adoption of a law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. Indeed, in Europe, there are foundations, organizations, institutions run by individuals, archives, libraries and works of art, and cultivating the Polish national tradition, which actually have a difficult way of working. The Polish state provided them with the possibility of financing by other institutions operating in our country, but it was funding for specific tasks, specific exhibitions, specific objectives. These institutions have a serious problem with such a day-to-day operation and the introduction of this law will enable them to safeguard their normal functioning. I hope that this law, the act of this law, will allow for such a completely normal, without care, without such a struggle for the next day, the functioning of these institutions that are important to us. The institutions in London, Paris, are important. Every Pole knows about the existence of the Polish library, but we also know what difficulties, despite the great support from the Polish state, these institutions face. This law will allow them to act in the same way as institutions operating in Poland, it will be a very large reinforcement. I hope that this support will be carried out in a very clear way, we will know about it, and that this will contribute to the development of Polish culture in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u287	Thank you very much. Elżbieta Zielińska presented the position of the Kukiz Club15 in writing. I do not see Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Of course, we agree with the intention of the designers and support the principles of the bill. In the jubilee year of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, special emphasis should be placed on promoting Polish culture both in Poland and abroad. We have no doubt that the adoption of this law will have a very positive dimension, not just symbolic. However, there are some reservations about possible practical effects. What exactly is it? The excessive autonomy of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in granting money, the lack of clear criteria specifying which entity will be able to receive funding and at what maximum amount. The practice shows that the Minister of Culture's own decisions are, let's call it delicately, controversial. This is mainly about the precedent of paying PLN 0.5 billion of public money for the collection, which could still be protected by the law carried out in the previous term. All you had to do was put the Czartoryski collection on the Heritage treasure list. The conclusion is that the disposal of public money for funding Polish cultural institutions abroad should be backed by more safeguards, for example, the granting of grants by the government should be assessed by other independent Polish foundations, but, as I said, the idea is in principle correct and we will not vote against the legal act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u289	Thank you, Member. And, please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that helping organizations and people outside Poland to promote Polish culture is as noble as possible. Such an idea, such an idea is, I think, very good. I have a question for the Minister right away, because maybe I haven't read it: Will this funding be 100%, or will the organisation in question have to make its own contribution? And whether it will be settled e.g. per year, or depending on the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u291	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, come on in. Question time - one and a half minutes. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is of course the right initiative, which will concern cultural institutions created and run outside our country, which protect our heritage or carry out research or publish publications. I want to ask you if we have a list of cultural institutions outside our country that may be able to count on such support. And the question is whether, thinking about cultural institutions outside our country, we can be calm about our Polish institutions. Are they sufficiently secured? I'm thinking about funding them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u293	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is senate, but asked by your marshal to speak I will be glad to speak, first of all expressing my gratitude to the senators that they have performed with such a project, because this is something that I believe has been under consideration for many years. As far as I can tell, there were no appropriate legal instruments to solve this problem. And the problem to be solved is serious because, as the club discussion noted, Polish cultural institutions were created outside the country as a result of our national disasters, and they were depositaries of an important part of the national heritage. Such institutions had to be established outside the country and because of 123 years of partitioning, and because of 50 years of the Polish People's Republic, and because of the lack of the possibility of free speech in the country. These institutions have had and have very great merits for maintaining the national culture, the Polish heritage. Very often they helped Polish people from the country to develop artistic and scientific development thanks to the various grants and scholarships they funded. It is high time, when Poland is, however, an increasingly prosperous country, for more and more Poland - already independent - to stand, to repay those institutions, which today very often have a critical financial situation. The strength of this Polish emigration, the one that cares about such institutions, in comparison with what was in the 19th century or even in the times of the Polish People's Republic, is a bit weaker and very often it turns out that in many cases these institutions simply have problems with current entity financing. So that this is a very good initiative that will enable the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage on behalf of the Polish Government, that is, the Polish State, to decide which of these institutions are most deserved and have the greatest problems, and such support is simply due to them. It will not be the minister's voluntary decision, it will only respond to the requests that will flow to the minister. Proposals can be of different kinds. Only requests for co-operation of the institution may be made, or requests for co-operation and 100% co-financing or co-financing and partial funding may be made. They can be very different and any such proposal will, of course, be properly analysed. But it actually comes down to this - because so far the Polish state had the opportunity to support these institutions only and only something, which in short called grants - that they could exist as many other institutions, including national ones, for a targeted grant for some specific action and had to race with these institutions. An institution that exists abroad for 150 and 180 years, very well-deserved, had to race for grants with some institution that was founded a year ago, nobody is known yet, but also has a cool idea, etc., etc. So this often caused confusion among the heads of these institutions. And today, thanks to this law, we will be able to lead to the situation that there will be an even subjective security, an individual subsidy for the specific maintenance of the material substance, even the employment of workers in these institutions. I'll answer the specific questions that have come up. Mrs Pasławska asked if there would be too much voluntarism from the Ministry of Culture here. I think not, because in the regulation, however, which we will issue to this law, we will define the whole decision-making procedure and criteria that will have to be met so that these decisions are positive in response to specific proposals. A team of experts will certainly be set up to evaluate these proposals. This team of experts will not only evaluate these proposals, but will also account for institutions, will assess the accounting of institutions with financial resources. By the way, Mrs Pasławska... I can't see. And you're in the O.R. By the way, Mrs Pasławska, like her political environment, has once again brought up a dispute over the purchase of collections from the Czartoryski Foundations. This, Commissioner, was one of the greatest successes of Polish culture and the Polish state in the last tens of years. We have implemented the postulate of Polish museums, conservators, art historians, art lovers, for many years, so that this most valuable collection created for 200 years, but with an uncertain future due to its ownership structure, is forever in the hands of the Polish state and the Polish nation. And we have achieved this goal, a goal that was not achieved by the ministers of the Civic Platform and the PSL in the previous term, because they tried, but they didn't dare, and they didn't find the money. Meanwhile, our prudent financial and budgetary policy has caused us not to lack courage, and money has been found, and it is symbolic money, because we have bought a collection that is actually unknown because it is only possible to think of it in the upper categories and to continue to expand it in terms of its real value, because no one is able to value it today and prove that it is worth even the most valuable image in this collection, which is actually the most beautiful picture of Leonardo da Vinci, which exists in the world, plus 86 thousand. other objects, plus a quarter of a million great prints, books, plus real estate, plus claims, plus lost works that we're gonna find someday, because we're pretty sure about that. All this was purchased at a symbolic price and this is one of the greatest successes of Polish culture in recent decades. That's how it's rated by professionals. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus asked what people, organisations... To any person or organization we will not decide on this subjective grant, only to proven institutions, which operate tens, if not even more than 100 years, which are checked and about which we know that they are already permanently recorded in the Polish national culture. You mentioned some cities, or Paris, or London, but maybe some places. These will be decisions made in relation to proven institutions, not in relation to institutions that, for example, will be created ad hoc, but in relation to absolutely proven ones, for which we have no doubt that they have served national culture strongly. Will it be 100% funding whether partial or very partial, this will depend on specific proposals. The institution submits an application and says that it is in such a situation that it needs total funding or partial funding, because some sources of income, however, have. We will, of course, verify that. We will not make anybody happy by force, but we will respond to a specific request, a concrete proposal that will come to us. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful. Once again, I express my gratitude for the senate initiative. From the brief discussion that has taken place here, I conclude that this law and the aim that this law is to achieve have actually trans-political support. And I thank you for that too, because I think we can agree here together that we're just doing something that maybe we had to do a long time ago, and it's about time we just did it. This will serve Polish culture regardless of who is running this culture on an ongoing basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u295	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz'15 club the position of the club on the bill amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. For years, when Poland was either not on the map of Europe, or when we were a satellite country of the Soviet Union, it was the cultural institutions established abroad that tried to preserve the continuity of the Polish state in cultural or historical terms. Around these institutions was the life of immigrants who were working to regain the full independence and sovereignty of the state. Today, we are committed to taking care of those institutions that face financial problems many times. This is very often the case for libraries, museums, archives, which are particularly important for the protection of Polish cultural heritage in emigration. These institutions often face financial difficulties and are concerned that they will therefore be forced to cease their activities. Support which institutions receive in various types of grants is often a drop in the sea of needs and cannot cover the maintenance costs of buildings or workers, as these are targeted grants. The proposed changes will provide financial resources in the budget of the State by treating institutions as one of the components of the financial sector. The rank and great importance for the country of Polish cultural institutions operating abroad require a special commitment from the authorities, especially with such large emigration as the Polish one. The Kukiz Club15 supports changes in the law that will enable them to create permanent sources of funding, hoping that the enlarged state's patronage will help to ensure the stability of these institutions. We also count on the quick and efficient initiative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in the creation of implementing acts for the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. The proposed amendment aims to extend the patronage of the Polish state over cultural activities for the protection of national heritage outside the Polish state. The protection of national heritage is one of the priority tasks of the State. The turbulent history of our country contributed to the fact that a significant part of the cultural heritage was created or found outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. Institutions that take care of our cultural and historical heritage often face financial difficulties. It may be thought that there is a high risk that for this reason they will end their activities of gathering the national heritage of our country. Currently, institutions active in the protection of national heritage, organised within the framework of the Permanent Conference of Museums, Archives and Polish Libraries in the West, may receive financial assistance for the implementation of a specific programme. However, this support is insufficient. Therefore, the proposed bill assumes the creation of such an institutional framework that will ensure that institutions created under foreign law are permanently financed and engaged in activities in the protection or dissemination of the Polish national heritage. The provisions in question give the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection the authority to issue a regulation in which he will determine inter alia. the scope of the tasks covered by the State's patronage, the necessary documents for the conclusion and settlement of the grant agreement and the financing, as well as the elements to be included in the grant agreement and the financing. This regulation will include priority objectives and tasks for which funding is allocated from the State budget. The cultural institutions created in this way will form part of the public finance sector, so that sources of funding will be provided from the state budget. The revised Act further clarifies the provisions concerning employees of cultural institutions who can be employed under the rules of the State in which they perform their work. The provisions laid down provide that natural persons, legal persons and organisational units without legal personality may be party to the contract, in addition to the entity established under foreign law, which carries out activities in the field of the protection or dissemination of the Polish national heritage. It is a very good change, giving the opportunity to obtain financial support by institutions whose activities relate to the care of monuments created during the Polish emigration in the 19th and 20th centuries and the protection of national heritage located outside the borders of the Polish state. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u298	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long (prints No 2261 and 2344). I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long contained in print No 2344. The first reading of the project took place at the 59th meeting of the Sejm on 6 March this year. The project was then addressed to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. The Commission was meeting on 21 March. has examined Draft Print Act No 2261 and adopted the report. The project aims, among others, at: creation of a single register of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long covering inland and sea vessels, sailing and motor craft, including those intended for fishing, with the possibility to register in maritime chambers, which in turn will enable the establishment of a maritime mortgage, the creation of a simple and user-friendly registration system, the creation of an electronic database for the registration of a yacht in order to ensure continuous access to data for rescue services and state administrations, and the introduction of a single model registration document and a single registration application. During the work on the project, amendments were tabled to clarify the provisions of the draft legislative and editorial act. Amendments of substance have also been tabled. These include: change of the booking period for the registration number or name of the vessel under construction from 6 to 7 months from the date of submission of the complete application - this is Article. The second sentence of the draft law also refers to the indication that the decision not to include a vessel in the register is issued by the registration authority, even if the provisions of the Act do not apply to the vessel - Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 4 (1) of the draft law - thirdly, concerns the clarification that fishing equipment is subject to marking and registration in accordance with the rules laid down in the IWT Act of 21 December 2000 - that is Article. 20 point 2 (a) a draft law. The Commission accepted all the amendments tabled. I therefore ask the High House to adopt the report of the committee in print No 2344.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u300	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Wilk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomed the government's initiative to develop the concept of a new yacht registration system and other vessels up to 24 m long. The existing legislation in this area has so far been considered inconsistent, complex and opaque. The draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long assumes that from 1 January 2020 one register of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long will be created in place of the current six registers and the registration process will be significantly simplified. The register shall be kept in the form of an electronic system. The register will be accessible to government and local authorities and other entities to the extent necessary to carry out their tasks set out in the legislation, e.g. Marine Search and Rescue Service. An application for verification of basic unit data shall be created, provided that the registration number, identification number and date of the last registration are indicated. In practice, access via the application will only be possible to the owner and persons to whom he/she makes the relevant data available and will not include personal data. Each unit shall have a unique number that will identify it throughout its life cycle regardless of the change in the registration number and all other data. Yachts subject to the provisions of the Directive of 20 November 2013 on recreational craft and scooters shall be marked with the manufacturer's identification number, and in the case of existing vessels which did not have the manufacturer's identification number assigned, the registration authority shall assign the individual identification number and the inspection mark by which the ship owner marks the unit. This is primarily intended to create mechanisms that make it difficult to re-legalise stolen equipment and facilitate the detection of the perpetrators of the theft. We hope that the bill will meet with a positive acceptance of the sailing environment. I hope that the solutions adopted will reduce the sense of nuisance associated with the registration of individuals. The exchange of documents for new ones will take place in stages. Discounts in fees and procedural facilitations will be applied. Owners will be able to keep POL numbers of their yachts. Applications can also be submitted electronically. As a result of the changes made, one functional and modern register will be created, which will serve the next generations of sailors, as well as the state administration and services responsible for water safety in carrying out their statutory tasks. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will request a move to the third reading of this bill and will ultimately vote in favour of this draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The intention of the designers is to simplify the procedures for the registration of yachts and, indirectly, increase the number of yachts flying the Polish flag. In the course of parliamentary work in committee I listened to the voice of the social side, the association of ship owners, and it doesn't seem so obvious. This amendment, both at the level of the draft law and at the level of the unveiled draft regulations, boils down to the introduction of a number of new, burdensome, time-consuming and often costly requirements and imposes on tens of thousands of citizens, owners of recreational crafts, the need to go through procedures that remind them of solutions that have already been abandoned. It should be noted that the proposed amendments introduce a number of provisions which may make the registration of tourist units in Poland extremely bureaucratic, incomprehensiblely burdensome and costly. We do not understand why, instead of introducing the long-awaited facilitation and simplification of registration of yachts, the Ministry plans to multiply formal requirements and proposes to extend procedures that will deter Polish tourists from registering these units in Poland because in many points of this law these requirements are much more restrictive than e.g. Sweden or Germany, and that's not the point. Therefore, as a Civic Platform Club, we propose four amendments that really go against the simplification of these procedures. We hope that they will be included and supported. About the art. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1, we would like to change from 7.5 m to 12 m. This limit of 12 m has been in force for several years. Since the obligation to register yachts of at least 5 m in length has been waived, this has not caused any adverse effects. Lowering this limit means only unnecessary formalities and costs for shipowners and increasing the burden on the registration authority. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 1 point 2 we propose to delete the letter. o and p. According to us, these are unnecessary registration records, this is a practice unknown in other European countries. The CE certificate shall mean only information about the parameters and shall not be relevant to the registration. This requirement therefore means an increase in the number of documents to be submitted. We also propose deletion in the article. Paragraph 7 1 sentences and allow for unambiguous identification due to the unambiguous identification provided by the registration number and the WIN number. In addition, marine yachts equipped with radio equipment have an MMSI number, international and universal, which allows to identify the unit and also allows to obtain all the information necessary for rescue purposes. Consecutively and analogously to the amendments concerning Article. Article 3 21 in points 13 and 14 we propose a change from 7.5 m to 12 m. I am submitting the proposed amendments to the marshal in writing and I ask the High House to support them in further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz presented the position of the Kukiz club15 in writing. Are you Mr Bear of Modernity? I can't see. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's governmental draft law on the registration of yachts and other vessels, in accordance with Seym printing 2261 and the report of the committee referred to by the President in print 2344, provides for measures to simplify and organise the rules for the registration of yachts and other vessels, to create a single register of these vessels, to simplify the registration process, to enable registration and to update data after submitting an electronic application. Another objective is to improve surveillance of the registration of units. Other legislative solutions are also being created and requirements for marine and inland vessels are harmonised. According to the legislator, a single model registration document will be created which will at the same time meet the requirements for proof of ownership of the entity, which will be helpful as it will facilitate detection and prosecution - it is an undesirable or non-compliant case without the consent of the owner of the change of ownership. The proposed project also takes into account a number of proposals from the State Committee on Marine Accident Investigation regarding the need to include the number of persons on that unit and its database in the registration document. Many solutions have been adopted during the work of the committee and the subcommittee and many comments have been taken into account. As I put it at first reading, our club is in favour of continuing to proceed on this project and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u306	Thank you very much. There are no questions. Then I will close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Posel Wheels in relation to the draft law on registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. Today's legal status regarding vessels leads to the fact that there is no central register of vessels. The data collections are distributed and run by several different entities, among others. Polish Navigator Association, Polish Motor and Water Ski Association, county old settlements, maritime chambers and maritime offices. These and other restrictions lead to a major problem for the unit identification services. Services that are responsible, among others. for the operation of rescue operations, and law enforcement agencies have no current and complete data. There is no single registration document - as in the case of e.g. A car - issued by the district ancients. Only registration certificates shall be issued which are not evidence of ownership. This law will solve this problem because a single register will be created for all yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. This register will cover inland and sea, sailing and motor units, including all boats and other vessels with a length of at least 7,5 m or with an engine power of at least 15 kW. The register will be an electronic system and will be available to the services 24 hours a day. They will be able to use it, among others. rescue services. The administrator will be the Director of the Maritime Office in Szczecin. Administration of the Szczecin system is a good solution. A large part of Polish vessels operate in the Western Pomerania. By creating new rules, it was right to assume that procedures should be as simple as possible and that above all they should not vary according to the Polish region. Nor should there be differentiation in requirements for small maritime and inland vessels. These requirements have so far differed considerably. Art. 4th Act states that the owner will be able to register the unit in any body (old-age, Polish Sailing Association or Polish Motor and Water Ski Association). It will be able to do so at the seat of the Authority or by electronic means. This will make it much easier for citizens to carry out formal procedures. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the adoption of a law on the registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u308	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. There is no rapporteur. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 29 hours 16 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and the mortgage (Prints No. 2064 and 2371). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration, and the Act on Perpetual and Hypothecal Books, prints No. 2064 and 2371. The amendment seeks to bring those laws into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 754 § 1 K.p.c. with a constitution. Marshal of the Sejm at its 55th meeting on 10 January 2018 pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The committee held its meetings on 25 January and 22 March 2018. On 25 January, the draft was submitted to the Permanent Sub-Committee for the revision of civil law. The subcommittee considered it at its meeting on 21 March and then submitted it to the committee. All project regulations have been doubled, i.e. both in the subcommittee and in the committee, systematically discussed. Drafting amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau were accepted. The draft was adopted unanimously by the committee. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes therefore requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill as proposed in the committee's report in print No 2371. I would like to thank you for your constructive work, ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u310	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Enforcement Act in Administration and the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs, contained in prints No. 2064 and 2371. As the rapporteur said, the draft is intended to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court, and the proposed amendments consist in giving a new wording to the article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code - in general, they aim to strengthen the position of the creditor whose claims have been secured e.g. in the form of a compulsory mortgage. As the rapporteur said, the draft was practically adopted in the committee without changes in substance. It indicates that he was well prepared by the Senate. However, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to make a minor amendment to this proposal in Article. 3 in the following Article: In paragraph 111, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 and 4 words to replace the changes in the contents of the mortgage or the basis for the entry. This is because it is provided for in Article. The 3th draft solution allows for a change in the content of the mortgage and consequently a change in the basis for the entry of a compulsory mortgage from the court's order to grant a security for the enforcement of the provisions in the enforcement proceedings, an implementing title stating the secured claim while respecting the original date of entry of the compulsory mortgage. However, under the proposed provision, doubts may arise as to the scope of the amendment to the contents of the perpetual book where, in the circumstances described in the proposed article. 111 there is no need to change the content of the mortgage, but only the basis for the entry. Thus, the amendment tabled seeks to clarify the scope of the creditor's request in order to eliminate any doubts. To the rest, we support the solutions proposed in the Senate's submission and, of course, we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u313	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothecs. As has already been said here, this proposal aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which the Court found that Article. 754 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code is incompatible with the Constitution as it de facto leads to the apparent protection of the creditor's property right by securing a compulsory mortgage. This was due to the fact that the security fell after two months, whether or not the creditor took enforcement action. Thus, we are faced with a situation in which the creditor does not interrupt the time-limit. Therefore, the designer proposed an amendment which takes account of the fact that the security granted under Title II will not fall after a certain period of time if he requests enforcement. During the work of the committee, editorial amendments were tabled - of course, as a Platform we were in favour of these amendments - and there were also some comments on the terminology used. However, all these doubts were clarified by representatives of the Ministry of Finance. That's why we're in favour of this project as a platform. The amendment tabled by the Law and Justice will probably be examined at the committee meeting and we will then respond to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u314	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to print No. 2371, the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Law on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a non-controversial project aimed at better securing the creditor. We supported this project at first reading. Nothing has changed, the Kukiz Poselski Club15 continues to support this project and its solutions. In fact, they make life easier for creditors, they make it easier to make claims. Where enforcement has been initiated, the freezing order previously issued shall not fail within the two-month time limit laid down in the current legal state in which the security has fallen. Moreover, as regards the amendment that Mr Ast of the Law and Justice had just announced, which was further clarified to a minor extent, I think that it will also find our recognition. So I repeat: given the uncontroversial nature of this bill and the fact that it is actually going in the right direction, to improve the situation of the creditor, the Kukiz Club will recommend its support to its Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern. He would, but he gave his speech in writing, didn't he? Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - European Union of Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the Senate bill amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act, the Act on Enforcement in Administration and the Act on Perpetual Books and Hypotheses, contained in prints No. 2064 and 2371. As has already been said today, the aim of this proposal is primarily to bring the provisions into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 25 October 2016 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 754 § 1 of the 1964 Civil Procedure Code with the Constitution. I would like to remind you that the Court has ruled that the provision providing for the automatic termination of the compulsory mortgage one month after the decision taking into account the claim which was subject to the protection is in principle non-constitutional. According to the Constitutional Court, this provision unduly limits the creditor's property rights. At the same time, the Court ruled that it would expire only 18 months after the publication of the judgment in the Official Journal, i.e. 30 June 2018. The modification of the statutory time limit for leaving the security in force after the final termination of the judicial proceedings has not resulted in the expected results. The collapse of the collateral protected the debtor, not the creditor. The extension of the deadline did not ensure the effective enforcement of judgments relating to claims secured by the establishment of a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's property, since the collapse of the collateral after the expiry of the statutory deadline was subject to enforcement by the creditor. In practice, executions from real estate take much longer than provided for by the Law 2 months. As a result, the successful execution of the debtor's property was often impossible. Even if the creditor immediately submitted a request for execution, the security fell 2 months after the final termination of the proceedings. In the case of claims secured by a compulsory mortgage on the debtor's property, execution within 2 months is in practice not feasible. This problem has been examined by the Constitutional Court. On 25 October, the Court decided on the non-constitutionality of that provision in so far as it refers to the protection of claims by the establishment of a compulsory mortgage. The explanatory memorandum indicates that there is no justification for making the period after which the security is terminated independent of the enforcement of the creditor's actions. It removes the sense of securing claims by compulsory mortgage and undermines the effectiveness of enforcement proceedings. In addition, the Court considered that the legislator should introduce appropriate rules taking into account the specific features of securing claims in the form of a compulsory mortgage. The amendment proposed by the Senate provides that, in the event of a request for execution from the subject-matter of the security, the security will not fall within the statutory deadline. It shall be maintained until the execution of its subject-matter has been completed. High Izbo! The proposed direction of change should be considered to be correct. The adoption of the proposed law should improve the situation of creditors by increasing the effectiveness of enforcement of claims secured by compulsory mortgage. In view of the above, the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will consistently support this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u318	Thank you very much. We move on to questions, actually to questions. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I only have one question, and I would like the Minister to try to answer it. Like the novel we're working on, it's gonna have to be so-called. Franc loans? As we know, this is today the largest group of potential stakeholders. The François environment often concerns the problems of court proceedings, enforcement problems and problems related to BTE, which are still being enforced somewhere despite the ruling of the tribunal, so that I would like the Minister to say more about this. As much as it will affect the so-called. franc loans? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u320	Thank you very much. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards Mr Maciejewski's question, I must say that I have a difficulty answering this question, because the subject of the presentation, which is presented to the High House, seems to be not specifically referring to this particular category of issues of great public interest, which are so-called cases. François. The subject matter of this submission shall be safeguard proceedings, not enforcement proceedings. If we were to bind the main part of the project that is being discussed today about the collapse of the security provided under Article. 747 points 2 and 5 c.p.c., with the activities of banks consisting in granting loans, including loans denominated, which are applied to the exchange rate of the foreign currency - the Swiss franc - it would be possible to wonder whether this project somehow does not improve the situation of banks, because it is generally a project containing pro-credit solutions and concerns the protection of claims. In principle, banks are so strong capital entities that if so called. The franchise has a claim against the bank, it has no problems - I have not yet heard of such problems - with the enforcement of such a claim, because the banks rather have capital. Over the last 30 years there have been several bank failures and they have not been absolutely related to the so-called. Franchised loans. So, if this submission were to concern franc credits in any way, then in a situation where a bank as a creditor would have secured its claim arising precisely from the conclusion of a franc credit agreement, but this, I believe, is not of particular interest to the Member, especially since banks have far more effective means of redress than the typical enforcement procedure under the enforcement title in the form of a judicial judgment. Therefore, it is unlikely that any signal has reached the Ministry of Justice indicating that, on the other hand, there is any problem on the bank's side with securing their claims against those specific borrowers related to the provision of foreign currency loans. I am very sorry that I am unable to give a more precise answer, but it is difficult for me to find the link between the subject matter of this submission and the question of franc credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u322	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u323	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, the Enforcement Act in Administration and the Law on Perpetual Books and Hypothetics, prints No. 2064 and 2371. The purpose of the draft submitted is to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 25 October 2016 declaring non-compliance with Article. 754 § And the Code of Civil Procedure with the Constitution. To date, we have only dealt with the apparent protection of the creditor's property rights by securing a compulsory mortgage. This appearance was due to the fact that, regardless of whether or not the creditor had taken enforcement action, the said security had fallen after a period of two months. Consequently, it was often impossible to enforce property claims in practice. This project is intended to introduce into the Polish legal system adequate protection of the rights of creditors who have obtained protection of their monetary claims in the form of the establishment on the debtor's property: a compulsory mortgage, a ban on the disposal or debit of immovable property which does not have a perpetual book, a maritime mortgage and a ban on the disposal of cooperative property rights to the premises. Three amendments are proposed within the framework of the proposed proposal. Firstly, the maintenance of the collateral for monetary claims to a certain extent will be subject to the submission of enforcement actions by the holder. Secondly, the creditor will be given the opportunity to request the conversion of the compulsory mortgage established under the collateral into a mortgage which secures the claim already established by the implementing title. Thirdly, the proposed solutions will be applied to safeguards that were established before the date of entry into force of the Act, but have not yet collapsed. The Members and Members of Modern Affairs support the proposal submitted and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u324	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on government departments and the Law on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information (Print No. 2392). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr Marek Zagórski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the law on the departments of government administration and the law on the infrastructure of spatial information. This project is the result of the creation of the Ministry of Investment and Development and the transfer to this department of construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. This created a new level of functioning of infrastructure and spatial information in Poland, which among others. provides the necessary geoinformation used by public and non-public entities planning and implementing investments of a local, regional and national nature, is an essential element to support local and regional development, allows integration, harmonisation and making available geoinformation from various sources, and also provides management information on phenomena occurring in the socio-economic space of Poland. From this point of view, the infrastructure for spatial information should, and according to the government, be the most appropriate place, be supervised and coordinated by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing as one of the important elements of the country's development mechanism. The bill involves amending the Law on Departments by adding to the section: construction, planning and spatial planning and housing of matters related to the infrastructure of spatial information and thus removing this area from the section: computerization. This change will allow the focus of all instruments in one range, i.e. e.g. geodesia and cartography, planning and spatial planning, infrastructure for spatial information necessary for the establishment of a government geoinformation service centre. The integration of these instruments means creating the basis for the development in Poland of a modern sector of the economy, which is the geoinformation sector. The proposal also amends the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act of 4 March 2010 according to which the creation and maintenance of the Spatial Information Infrastructure geoportal as a central access point for spatial services will be the country's main surveyor, which will maintain the coherence of functional IT solutions for the Spatial Information Infrastructure geoportal. In addition, the project assumes that the body responsible for carrying out the necessary arrangements with the leading authorities to ensure the completeness of infrastructure in terms of thematic, area and time volatility, as well as preventing unnecessary collection of the same data by more than one administrative authority, will be responsible, as with other substantive tasks, for the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. These activities will be carried out by the main surveyor of the country which has the necessary organisational resources to carry out these activities. In conclusion, the proposed amendments to the Government Departments Act and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act will make the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing a body that will also be responsible for the infrastructure of spatial information, because they are related to the investment process and have an interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral nature. The Minister will coordinate the activities of leading authorities, administrations and third parties in the area of spatial information infrastructure and will supervise the work of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Board. The creation and maintenance of the geoportal as a central access point for spatial services will be carried out by the main surveyor of the country. By informing you of the above, I kindly ask the High House to accept the submitted project. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u326	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports the government's bill to amend the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. Currently, the Minister of Investment and Development manages the Department: construction, planning and spatial planning and housing under the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2018 on the detailed scope of the Minister for Investment and Development. The amendment of the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Law on the departments of government administration, proposed in this draft law, provides for the transfer of infrastructure matters of spatial information from the department: computerization to the section: construction, spatial planning and development and housing. As a result of the change, the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing will be equipped with tools to obtain the necessary information for investment purposes, namely to optimise the planning and implementation of investments, and this will allow for real monitoring of the results of decisions taken and changes in the economic space of the country. It is known that the infrastructure for spatial information, firstly, provides the necessary geoinformation used by public and non-public entities planning and implementing investments of a local, regional, national and local and regional nature. Further, this infrastructure of spatial information also allows for integration, harmonisation and access to geoinformation from different sources. The infrastructure for spatial information needs to be supervised and coordinated by the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing as one of the elements of the country's development mechanism, bringing together in one department all the instruments necessary for the establishment of a government geoinformation service centre. The integration of these instruments means creating the basis for the development in Poland of a modern sector of the economy, which is the geoinformation sector. The amendments proposed by the Act have already been discussed by the Minister, so I have nothing but to offer strong support for the project, which I am doing here on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u328	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information, contained in print No. 2392. High Izbo! This is another project that results from the lack of a comprehensive concept of running our country, even after the next change of government and supposedly a new concept of running it or creating a new command center. And so we learn that after the January drop into the Ministry of Investment and Development also construction, planning and spatial planning and housing appeared, as it is written, a new plane for the functioning of the infrastructure of spatial information in Poland. In fact, it is another project, of course, from a whole series of projects, which step by step, but systematically excludes further powers and tasks carried out so far by the Ministry of Digitalization. 2.5 years of running the country, and only now, as you write in the explanatory memorandum, have you considered that the changes in this project will serve to monitor the results of decisions taken and changes in the economic space of the country in real terms. It's like this monitoring hasn't happened yet. That's why I'm asking you what the situation has been like so far, since these changes will only allow you to monitor it now, make decisions and channel new actions. You are also talking about this project, that these changes will provide the basis for the development of a modern sector of the economy in our country, and you are thinking about the geo-information sector here, and at the same time you are placing this scope in the main survey of the country, which has completely different tasks and objectives to fulfil among its responsibilities. After all, the foundations of the geoinformation challenge should be placed in the Ministry of Digitalization, which should carry out information processes, design the implementation and operation of systems or geoinformation resources. Isn't this project from a series of projects that simply serve to control the silence manually, and as a result of the liquidation of the Ministry of Digitalization, for which you were looking for a boss for the next months after the cancellation of the largest professional in your government, as was called by Minister Streżyńska, who unfortunately had to leave, because she courageously was able to criticize some of the solutions introduced by Law and Justice? Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! New technologies, the digital revolution, innovation and digital innovation - without these directions of change in the world we will not get far and we must be aware of that. Do you not have this awareness and do you not know that digitalization completely changes the world by revolutionizing different areas of our lives? It was from the lips of your Vice-Minister of Digitization that the digitalization is a transformation of the state, that it is a remodeling of the entire philosophy of the functioning of the state. He also talked about digital transformation as a change not technological but even civilization. Of course, the whole world is speeding up, and you're taking another project backwards, and we can't let that happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u330	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Government Administrations and the Infrastructure for Spatial Information, print no. 2392. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems so strange that computerization is not our strong suit. CEPiK 2 - problems, ZUS system - problems. Today we have a question because I understand that we are after changes in government, and today we are looking for an idea for the Ministry of Digitalization. Within the framework of these activities, as far as printing is concerned, the Ministry of Digitalization will no longer be responsible for the infrastructure of spatial information. Okay, he's not gonna be responsible anymore. It would seem logical that at this point in time actually let the main surveyor of the country be responsible for this, wouldn't it? Finally, we have technological changes, after all, today a simple card is not enough and all the information about infrastructure has gone online, today is the future of geoportal, spatial information. And everything would seem clear here. I would understand it as a very logical fact that the main surveyor of the country is the one who, as you write, will be responsible for the creation and maintenance of the geoportal of spatial information infrastructure as a central access point for spatial services and for keeping publicly available records of spatial data services covered by the infrastructure. At this point, however, I do not understand one thing too much: Why the Minister for Investment and Development? To be the authority responsible for the spatial information infrastructure. I have the impression that somewhere around here, we're more likely to duplicate the tasks of the country's main surveyor. Moreover, it also says to the end that the subject is open and somewhere on the scale of our government we are looking for an idea for digitization. The topic is open and our club is open to discussion and looking for a good idea for Poland, because work on spatial information is needed and is to be effective for Poland, so that Poland develops. I think we'll meet in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u332	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u333	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the law on government departments and the law on the infrastructure of spatial information contained in print no. 2392. Ladies and gentlemen! This project amends two laws, i.e. - as I mentioned at the outset - in the law on government departments and in the law on spatial information infrastructure. The proposal in this project to amend the Government Administration Departments Act implies the transfer of infrastructure issues of spatial information from the Department: IT to the Department: construction, spatial planning and development and housing. As a result of this change, the Minister of Investment and Development will instead be responsible for the infrastructure of spatial information in Poland, which is the consequence of the Minister's taking over the investment and development management of the department: construction, spatial planning and development and housing under the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 10 January 2018. According to the projector, this is intended to equip this minister with a tool that will enable him to obtain the necessary information for investment purposes and allow him to monitor the results of decisions and changes in the economic space of the country in real terms. In turn, the amendments proposed in the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act assume that the creation and maintenance of the Spatial Information Infrastructure geoportal as a central access point for spatial services and for keeping publicly available records of the collections and spatial data services covered by the infrastructure and for providing them with uniform identifiers will be the responsibility of the country's main surveyor. It is therefore intended to transfer responsibility in this respect from the Minister for Digitisation to the Minister for Investment and Development, which will only perform strategic tasks related to the coordination of spatial information infrastructure and the execution of operational activities will be entrusted to the main surveyor of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you that not much more than a year ago, the Sejm adopted the Act of 16 November 2016 amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which was amended, among others. the law on government departments and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act in such a way that the authority responsible for spatial information infrastructure has been made a minister of digitalisation, and he has been entrusted with the creation and maintenance of a geoportal of spatial information infrastructure to the full extent of thematic and territorial infrastructure. You should therefore decide which minister should be responsible for what. The transfer of this responsibility from one minister to another every few months certainly does not serve anybody and only demonstrates that, despite more than two years of government, you still have no idea how to rule the country. However, I would like to draw attention to one more point. The bill under review gives the impression of such a regulation serving solely to sanction this decision by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Meanwhile, such things should be done with prejudice. However, the PiS would not have been itself if, on the occasion of proceding this seemingly purely orderly regulation, he had not attempted to smuggle solutions to serve only in what you really achieved the championship, i.e. to remove people who had become uncomfortable or had to give way to new party nominators. In this context, one of the provisions of the amendment results in the release of persons who have recently been appointed from this institution from the Spatial Information Infrastructure Council. This is an example of the fact that, with a theoretically technical law, you are once again introducing human resources elements which, as we know, are not best served by the quality of our administration. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of doubts about the law and the provisions proposed here, on behalf of the Posel Club I would like to propose that this project be directed to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u334	Thank you very much. Members Kazimierz Kotowski and Małgorzata Zwierzan made their speeches in writing. So we move on to asking questions. Mrs Margaret Płępek will speak first. After the first question, I close the list. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendment of Article Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Spatial Information Infrastructure Act assumes that the main surveyor of the country will be responsible for the creation and maintenance of geoportal as a central access point for spatial services. Lips, on the other hand. 2 and 5 of this article provide for the division of tasks between the main surveyor of the country and the Minister responsible for IT. Thus, it seems that a situation is being created where the entity responsible for the creation and maintenance of the geoportal is not clearly responsible for the records of its resources. I would like to ask if the management of geoportal infrastructure as a result of the planned changes will be fully and clearly integrated into the records of its components. I'm asking for a written reply. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u336	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you a few questions about this bill. Firstly, does the provisions contained in this project relating to the inclusion of the existing tasks of the Minister of Digitisation in the tasks of the Minister for Construction, Planning and Land Planning and Housing mean the liquidation or the initial liquidation of the Ministry of Digitisation? Because this ministry, as we can see, is gradually limited in terms of various important tasks, and we need to think about what the meaning of its continued operation is. And secondly, what was the designer's direction by entrusting such a wide range of new tasks to the country's main surveyor? And last but not least: Is it right to limit the powers of the Ministry of Digitalization in an era of widespread ITisation of administrative activities in the world? Is that a good trend? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u338	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the annex to the bill, i.e. Point 7 of Chapter 1 of the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network and repealing Decision 661/2010/EU. Can I get a substantive justification for this change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u340	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation of Minister Marek Zagórski and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by asking Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska. This change results from a reference to the current legal act, a reference to the trans-European transport network within the meaning of Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 1996 on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. It follows that this provision has been amended to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, namely simply legislative cleaning. As far as most of the questions are concerned, they were focused, first of all... In fact, it can be divided into two groups. The first concerns the statement that we are taking a step backwards and that we intend to limit the competences of the Ministry of Digitalization. In any case, we're going deep into the pre-digit era. So I want to assure you that this is not the case. That's one thing. Secondly, we are not eliminating the Ministry of Digitalization. I would also like to assure you of that. However, we organize, among others. This bill has certain spheres. We do not limit any competences of the Ministry of Digitalization in this way, and also such thinking that if something is digital somewhere, it must necessarily go to the Ministry of Digitalization, it would mean that e.g. The entire IT systems of the Ministry of Justice should be transferred to the Ministry of Digitalization. This is not the role of the Minister of Digitization, this is not the role of the Ministry of Digitization. It should coordinate tasks, coordinate tasks throughout the administration and have appropriate tools to do so. That's one thing. As far as the infrastructure of spatial information is concerned, we considered this to be a good opportunity, the moment when we create the Ministry of Investment and Development by transferring the construction department to it, the main domain of which is really planning, spatial development. Collecting all these tools in one hand will improve the process of building infrastructure for spatial information, a process that has been scattered for a long time. So this experience of ours also after a year of operation in the ministry, supervision by the minister of digitalisation, indicates that it will be much better if all the tools in this area are concentrated in one hand in one year and this responsibility will not be blurred. We believe that this will speed up the process, speed up the process of clearing up this sphere and gathering the information needed to ensure that this information about spatial infrastructure is at an ever better level and that these delays... Because it is also worth remembering that we in this infrastructure of spatial information, in this whole area of resource management we have already invested a great deal of money, including EU funds. Now it's high time we sort it out and get to the level where the resources we've accumulated were a patch available for business, for citizens and for administration. That is the purpose of this change. So let me stress again: we are not going backwards in development, we are not going to end the ministry. I have not heard of any other competence that we would like to take away from the minister of digitalization. I can tell you that we are discussing the competences of the Minister of Digitization is about to receive. Therefore, I ask you, after this debate, to come out calmed, if that is what you are primarily concerned about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u342	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u343	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the law on government departments and the law on infrastructure of spatial information. According to the project, the main surveyor of the country will be responsible for maintaining the geoportal of spatial information infrastructure as a central access point for spatial services. Taking over this function from the Minister of Digitisation is intended to maintain the coherence of IT solutions for geoportal spatial information infrastructure. Geoportal allows citizens, businesses and public administrations to view and search for geoinformation and use different e-services. In addition, the project assumes that the entity responsible for making the necessary arrangements with the lead authorities to ensure the completeness of infrastructure in terms of thematic, area and time volatility, as well as preventing unnecessary collection of the same data by more than one administrative authority, will be responsible, as with other substantive tasks, for the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. The PSL-UED Posel Club is in favour of further proceding the law on government departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. Today's project focuses mainly on transferring matters from the infrastructure area of spatial information to the Ministry of Investment and Development and regulates the responsibility and some of the tasks of the main surveyor of the country. In order to be able to develop successfully, the State should adapt its organisational structures to the current conditions. Changes such as restructuring, converting ministries and transferring competences from one minister to another, if they are carried out in line with current needs, are, in my opinion, desirable. The changes proposed in this project are mostly orderly. According to the applicants, they will contribute to maintaining consistency in the functioning of information solutions for geoportal spatial information infrastructure. They are also essential for the creation of a government geoinformation service centre as a basis for a modern sector of the economy. I agree with that opinion. The course and outcome of the consultations carried out also confirm my conviction that the proposed changes are correct. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u345	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Law on the departments of government administration and the Law on the Infrastructure of Spatial Information, contained in print No. 2392, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on social security for farmers and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in no 2408 and 2407 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court (Prints 2390 and 2393). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court notified by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as justified, concerns the introduction of changes of a precise nature and ensuring the smooth implementation of the procedures provided for therein. It entered the Sejm on 30 March this year. On 5 April the Marshal of the Sejm decided that the first reading would take place at a committee meeting and addressed the draft to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The Commission examined this project yesterday, i.e. On 10 April, and in print no 2393 submitted a report to the High House on this matter. The proposed regulations aim at, among others, ensuring the implementation of the principles laid down in the Supreme Court Act of budgetary autonomy of the Supreme Court Disciplinary Chamber. The date of entry into force of the proposed law was determined at the date following the date of publication in order to ensure that the revised wording of the amended Law on the Supreme Court was applied as soon as possible. The entry into force of the proposed law does not entail financial implications for the state budget and budgets of local government units and the subject matter of the proposed regulation falls outside the scope of European Union law. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting yesterday, on 10 April this year, asks the High Sejm to approve this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u347	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, in print no. 2390 and 2393. As the rapporteur has already stated, the proposed law aims first and foremost to introduce changes of a more precise nature, complementing the Law on the Supreme Court adopted on 8 December 2017. The proposed changes are in the following directions: the provisions are intended to ensure the autonomy of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, above all budgetary autonomy. This is one direction of change. The second direction of change involves the procedure for presenting candidates for the first President of the Supreme Court to the President of the Republic. The next proposed changes concern the jury selection procedure. The amendments also concern the procedure for the election of the Presidents of the Supreme Court in each Chamber. Of course, the committee held a very detailed discussion during the first reading on the presentation of the parliamentary and individual solutions proposed in the draft. We believe that these changes are, of course, necessary and necessary and that we will support them at a later stage of legislative work. So that, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I bring the Law and Justice to the High House, of course, about the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u349	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Contrary to the declarations made by the project promoters, the aim of the project is not only to introduce changes of a more precise nature - this is the preliminary view that the legal opinion drawn up by Prof. Gersdorf, the first President of the Supreme Court, begins on the draft law amending the Supreme Court Act. And although it seemed that the bill prepared by the President, then amended in the Seym by Members of Law and Justice, could not be worse, even more destructive, this bill just proves that it could be. And although this is a short text, it still contains a number of constitutional, procedural flaws relating to the very nature of the Supreme Court. Starting with procedural issues, Art. 37 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall specify a catalogue of draft laws whose first reading has to take place at the meeting of the Sejm, and not, as in the case of the other laws, only at the meeting of the committee responsible. There is no optionality or recognition for the Bureau or Marshal of the Sejm. The case is really zero-one. This catalogue literally lists projects regulating the system and jurisdiction of the public authorities, and these clearly include the Supreme Court, which, after all, is anchored directly in the Constitution. Besides, this principle never raised doubts, and all the Supreme Court laws had their first reading in the plenary room. On the other hand, this bill strongly interferes with the functioning of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, we've gotten a little used to these violations of the law. But back to the first reading, at yesterday's committee meeting, we asked the president about the legal basis for such a procedure. We got a full and exhaustive answer: because the marshal decided so. So we actually have the Sejm rules in the Seym and we have lex Kuchciński, which is based only on one principle: operation without any mode. In the 21st century, the law on the Supreme Court is being amended in a country that is a member of the European Union without proper procedure. But since the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland has made a mockery, control must take place in a public debate. That is why it is so important that we talk every day about all the actions of the ruling party that violate the constitution. This is also the case with this law, because firstly, Members of the Law and Justice propose the introduction of a new, unknown constitution or any other acts of the Polish legal order of the institution, namely the judge acting as the first President of the Supreme Court. As everyone knows very well, the Supreme Court Act prepared by President Andrzej Duda assumes that the term of office of Professor Gersdorf, the first President of the Supreme Court, will be terminated even before the end of her guaranteed six-year term. So, seeing that there will be a vacancy in such an important position, illegally, but there will be, you are looking for the opportunity to gain influence, to fill this extremely important office. After all, the President, who is a representative of the executive authority, according to this project will be one person, without consultation, pointed out the person who would be the first President of the Supreme Court, not only for a week or two, but also for a period of up to 12 months. Why? Please note that the election of the new first President of the Supreme Court can be made if it is filled 100% Judgeships, i.e. the Supreme Court, will be held by 110 judges. If there are 108 or 109 of them, the Supreme Court will not be able to have a legally elected first president, and the election for free judicial positions will be decided by no one else, like President Andrzej Duda. So until the President takes care of the full judicial cast of the Supreme Court, he will be able to decide for one person who will rule the most important court in Poland. The proposal to ensure total financial autonomy for the new Supreme Court Disciplinary Chamber, which will be the armed arm of Zbigniew Ziebra to punish disobedient judges or lawyers, should also be considered incompatible with the Constitution. Since this is a chamber for special tasks, it will also receive special powers. Unfortunately, there is much more to this bill than that, but the speaking time is limited. Therefore, your Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I request that this bill be rejected entirely in second reading, and if this proposal is not taken into account, we make amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which aim to improve this draconian bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u351	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski, Kukiz15. [[Change, Marshal, I will refer instead of Mr. Romansky.]] Well, please, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u352	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz,15 I wanted to present our position on this project. Let me put it this way: one thing should agree with the previous speakers - this type of bill should be read first in the main room. Each shortcut leads to the fact that none of these laws are good. Therefore, our position in the committee on this matter was that we thought that because the project is not being examined at first reading in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... In general, we were against all changes. But I have a question for you. It says so in this project... For example, we attach great importance to the jurors in the Disciplinary Chamber, as well as to the others when recognising emergency complaints. Why should they be jurors from the Warsaw court, I ask, not e.g. Nysa, Pcima or something. [[From Torun.]] I will say more, to the jurors in Warsaw there are most reservations, more than to those who are from other towns. It's so casual. I know you want to close what wasn't closed in the previous bill when you were working on it, but this bill is another proof that the bill is produced in the Sejm in a bad way, too fast, after the heads. The finale is that we haven't finished one bill yet, and we're already correcting it, and we're probably gonna correct it ten times. The only thing that somehow... Like the Disciplinary Chamber. I'll admit honestly that I was in favour of the Disciplinary Chamber, I still am, but I'm going to say this: I don't know at whose request this Disciplinary Chamber will recognize complaints. Are the judges gonna file for judges, the prosecutors are gonna be the judges? Maybe we should also finally create, and I say this to boredom, a complaint system in Poland excluded from ministers, involving a social factor, because it is the only way to make an evaluation. On the other hand, the decision - of course, let it be the Disciplinary Chamber. The matter of the Disciplinary Chamber's budget itself, which is to be separated and so guarded, for me personally and for the club is very ambiguous. So, please, High House, I do not know, I suppose there will be different views on this matter. I will personally request that we vote against this change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u353	Thank you. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of Law and Justice! I'm offering those four people from the PiS who are in the gym, an exercise like this before you vote on this bill. [[Voice from the room: Five.]] Oh, sorry, five. [[Voice from the room: Five, six.]] Imagine the following situation. If someone other than you had a parliamentary majority... [[Sorry, sorry.]] ...and first pushed the Act on the designation of the retirement age 45 for the current president, and then added the Act to it, according to which, after the removal of the head of state on its basis, e.g. The head of the biggest party is calling a person to act as president, what would you do then? Well, I understand that then, from the PiS benches, a scream would rise that this is some limitless lawlessness. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, that would be illegal. But that's exactly what this illegal purge scenario in the Supreme Court you're proposing is going to be carried out with the hands of the PiS politicians, your hands. First, the ordinary law, contrary to the Constitution, reduces the retirement age of the first President of the Supreme Court, and now you have proposed, instead of choosing another President, to entrust his duties to an unknown political governor's constitution, in any case, even if your first President resigns from his position for health reasons. By law on the politicization of the Supreme Court, you put the last nail in the coffin of an independent judiciary. This law destroys the values on which all normal democratic countries and the European Union operate. A year ago, such manual control of the Supreme Court was only a wish of the ruling system. Unfortunately, today - this must be said directly - becomes our grim reality. Until now, when the first President of the Supreme Court was not founded, it was the constitution that led to the election of the next first President. So let us briefly explain what the purpose of the PiS has in these changes. In fact, there is no rational reason why such a special mechanism is to be applied, completely different from the mechanism of customary election of the first President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the Supreme Court. The reasons for this change are simply political. The PiS is apparently afraid that, after a possible earlier resignation of the current first Supreme Court President, this function could be entrusted to a person who is completely independent of politicians. That is why the proposal which is directly contrary to the constitution of the President's appointment of such a political governor in the Supreme Court, without specifying any statutory criteria to be followed by the President. Such action shall aim to ensure that the first President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of each Chamber are appointed persons who will be close to the current government. And that is the manual control of the justice system that you want to implement. First of all, and in violation of the Constitution, you are reducing the age of transition to retirement, which will result in premature termination of the term of office of the current First President of the Supreme Court, then introducing a political governor, who is to have all the powers of the first President, to direct this court for a period of quite unlimited time until the new judges are appointed to the Supreme Court by the politicized National Judicial Council, and will assume their duties and ensure that someone close to Nowogrodzka is elected to the first President of the Supreme Court. Interestingly, this act of calling a political governor in the Supreme Court will have to countersign the Prime Minister, including the PiS. Thus, the person acting as the first president will certainly have to enjoy the strong support of his colleagues at the PiS, but it is rather difficult to expect that this political nomination will have respect for any of the judges. Today we are facing a situation where on Monday the government negotiates with the European Union, and on Tuesday the ruling authorities forcefully push through the committee the law on presidential control of the Supreme Court, a law which ultimately destroys the Supreme Court. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I now submit a proposal at second reading to reject the parliamentary bill on the President's takeover of control of the Supreme Court and to make a number of amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u355	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - European Union of Democrats, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, contained in the Seym Papers No. 2390 and 2393. The above law is intended to strengthen the powers of the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the work of the Disciplinary Chamber. The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court itself becomes a court of law. This certainly violates the integrity of the Supreme Court as a judicial authority. If the rulers want to express their phobias about discipliners for all legal professions and others, then it was necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to create a separate institution, e.g. called the Supreme Court of Disciplinary Affairs, not to blow up from the centre the highest judicial authority of a position established in the system. In the light of the proposed regulation, the President of the Supreme Court, in charge of the work of the Disciplinary Board, is to make substantive decisions on the spending of public funds of a certain amount and for a specific purpose. These tasks are to be carried out with the help of the staff of the Chancellery of the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the work of the Disciplinary Chamber. However, the budgetary autonomy of the Disciplinary Chamber in this regard is not complete, ladies and gentlemen, because the Supreme Court's Rules of Procedure do not set up a chief accountant in the Chancellery of the Supreme Court leading the Disciplinary Chamber. Thus, the tasks associated with the functioning of the Disciplinary Board are to be carried out by the Chief Accountant of the Supreme Court, who is also the Director of the Financial Office of the First President of the Supreme Court. Proposal for an Article. 73 § The 2nd Supreme Court Act provides for the abolition of the first President of the Supreme Court's power to appoint Supreme Court jurors to rule on disciplinary matters. Consequently, in the light of Article. 80 § 1 of the Law on the Supreme Court This power will be exercised by the President of the Supreme Court, who directs the work of the Disciplinary Chamber, as part of the appointment of the formation of the adjudicator. This is further evidence of strengthening the role of Supreme Court President in charge of the work of the Disciplinary Chamber at the expense of the powers of the first Supreme Court President. Another curia in the Supreme Court Act is the institution entrusted to the designated Supreme Court judge to direct this institution, in addition in an indefinite period of time. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that the appointment as an official act of the President of the Republic of Poland to direct the Supreme Court or the Chamber designated by the Supreme Court will require the signature of the President of the Council of Ministers for his validity. This is clear from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Who will be the head of the Supreme Court for even a very long time will not be decided by the President himself, but the President of the Council of Ministers will have a decisive vote each time. The prerogatives of the President of the Republic were clearly indicated in this sense in the Constitution and cannot be presumed. So the president will ask the Prime Minister's permission, and the Prime Minister, who is not the head of the ruling party, will ask the President's approval. And in a moment's time, three divisions in Poland will look like this: President, Prime Minister, President. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the revised article. The 112th Supreme Court Act. The President of the Republic will be free to issue and to change the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court without the opinion of the College of the Supreme Court. The transitional period is to last for 12 months. Even when the Supreme Court was changed in 1990 by decommunising it effectively, there was no transition period. Moreover, for several decades the Supreme Court's Rules of Procedure have been forming its organs, its judges. There was a period in Poland's history when the Minister of Justice created the Supreme Court rules from the top. This period lasted from 1 September 1932 to 21 February 1962. Two such regulations were issued at that time - one in 1932, the other in 1947. As you can see, the parliamentary majority is stuck between Sanctification and Stalinism. Only, ladies and gentlemen, wait until you propose solutions from the times of war and occupation, which this period creates a buckle between the Second Commonwealth and the Polish People's Republic. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats does not see the possibility of supporting this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u357	Now we move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing... [[Maybe me.]] Mr Marek Ast, please. I'm closing the list. Mr Truskolaski is the first question to be asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A democratic rule of law is one that has a stable law, which is unfortunately an unprecedented phenomenon in Poland under the PiS rule. Even proceding this project raises doubts, because the first reading of such an important bill on amending the Law on the Supreme Court should take place in the plenary room. In December, you passed legal bubbles that subjugated the justice system to the Minister of Justice. Now you're willing to hand over some of his powers to the president. Your proposals are a game with the judicial authority to ridicule it in front of its citizens. With your proposals, you introduce non-constitutional bodies, such as the first President of the Supreme Court. As you know, according to the Constitution, the work of the Supreme Court is governed only by the first President of the Supreme Court and not by his duties. You're giving the president a scarecrow so he can be called off and reckless. [[♪ The bell ♪]] before the PiS, the President of the Supreme Court will be replaced by a party double named... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u359	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u360	High Izbo! She danced a needle with thread, a needle - beautifully, thread - ugly. And that's how the PiS behaves ugly. What are you doing? First of all, you are putting together three parliamentary projects that aim to let go of the eye, soap in your head, or balm in the European Commission. On the other hand, you are submitting a draft for the Supreme Court, which is intended to increase the influence of the executive authority on the Supreme Court, which, in this formula which you voted on, will neither protect independence nor ensure institutional continuity of the Supreme Court. You're giving the President the authority to point out the Supreme Court judge who will lead the Supreme Court. 'Cause what are you wearing? You're assuming a reduction of the six-year term of office of the First Supreme Court President. Why are you going in the opposite direction to the government's declarations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister Morawiecki preaches in... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u361	I ask you to ask Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the motivations underlying the wording in the draft article. 112 concerning the year when the President will be able to issue regulations on the rules of procedure without asking the college. It will establish a regulation without asking those whose regulation and the way in which it operates, i.e. the rules, will concern them. Few of this, for 12 months, will be able to make announcements about positions, posts in the Supreme Court without asking the first president of the Supreme Court. What were the motivations behind such a solution, since it was the Supreme Court, in this case the first president of the Supreme Court, who has the best insight in where and what judge is needed? You have shifted the decision to place the judges on the executive side for a year. It's like the judges are deciding how to fill ministerial positions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u363	I ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that you're destroying the entire justice system, we all know. It's sad, but we're getting used to it now. You create a law that you think will provide you with lifelong rule of this country. And I'll tell you what. If you think you're preparing a bill under which the President will decide who might be, and who can't be the Supreme Court judge, that you're preparing a law, a law that will allow the situation that the President may lead to the fact that the replacement of the Supreme Court President will be head of this House, then you're wrong. Because it all seems that your time is running out. And don't forget one thing: this bill will apply once you're in opposition. Then you'll think about what you've done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u365	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like, in principle, to return to the budget matters that I spoke about at committee meetings and which have not been taken into account in any way. I didn't see any deeper thought about it. First, the Supreme Court is a separate part of the state budget as defined by law. The introduction of budgetary autonomy for the Disciplinary Chamber is a violation of the principle of budgetary unity, i.e. the Public Finance Act. That's one thing. Second, the provisions of Article. 4 goes even further, namely to give authorisation to the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the Disciplinar Chamber as regards the changes to the budget of the Supreme Court, generally as part of the budget, which I consider to be a gross violation of the Public Finance Act. I said, "Why are you doing this? It's not like there's any danger. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there will be no resources available for the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u367	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS was in such a phase of patronising the European Commission. We have a number of draft laws on this matter, which we are considering on rape in the Sejm, and in the meantime, in this law you are going further upstream as regards the recommendations of the European Commission. You want to overthrow the first President of the Supreme Court at all costs, using the retirement age and introducing an unconstitutional position acting first President. You do not raise an emergency complaint at all, which the Commission has questioned very strongly. You still do not touch on the matter of the NRS, which the Commission says has been chosen in a very political way. You leave the possibility of removing judges, although in another law, only not by the President and the Minister of Justice, but by the politicized KRS, about which the Commission writes in its recommendations that it is politicized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the way of agreement with the Commission... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u369	Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question for the Member of the applicant's representative. Are all these evil intentions which the opposition Members are referring to this project really justified? I would really like you to present the reasons for this submission being addressed to the Marshal's staff. Indeed, it is mainly about clarifying the provisions contained in the Supreme Court Act and improving the functioning of the Supreme Court, as stated in the explanatory memorandum of the project. At the same time, Mrs Marshal, I would like to make an amendment that I already mentioned during the club speech. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: But you can't now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u371	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michael Wójcik. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Amendments? At the time of the amendment question? Your marshal, you can't do that. Formal conclusion.]] In writing, Member, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But it concerns this case and this is an ad hoc situation. No amendments can be tabled.]] [[Voice from the room: At any time you can.]] [[Voice from the room: During second reading.]] [[Voice from the room: Second reading continues.]] I understand, Mrs Dolnyak, that you have explained that this is a possibility. You're welcome, Minister Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u372	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for all those questions. The strong words came from this speaker. I don't think it's necessary. I'll start by making amendments. As I remember, there is a provision that can be amended by the end of the second reading. By the way. There's a recipe. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But this corresponds to the standards of correct legislation?]] I don't want to argue whether it meets the standards or not, but from a formal legal point of view...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u373	Minister, I'm very sorry, but please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u374	From a formal legal point of view, there is such a provision. There's no doubt about it. Every Member should know that. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Minister, and the committee in five minutes, right?]] I do not want to answer, ladies and gentlemen, using the names of the specific Members who stood here on the stand, because there was no formal question addressed to us as the Ministry of Justice. Remember, this is not a government project. It is a parliamentary project. [[Voice from the room: As always.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You tell good jokes.]] There were some doubts, so I'm gonna let you answer that. The question of reading where this reading took place. Of course it's possible for the first reading to take place at the committee meeting. As I recall, there was even a ruling of the Constitutional Court in this case given a few years ago. It was about the Universal Courts Act. Mr. Marshal in such cases has the right to make such a decision. That doesn't violate the procedure you were talking about here. I can't pinpoint the ruling right now, but I will try to resolve your doubts. It was a ruling a few years ago. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But art. 37 is clear.]] From a formal legal point of view, the marshal had the right to make such a decision. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And you have seen art. 37?]] As regards the issue of the Disciplinary Chamber and its budgetary autonomy. As far as the Disciplinar Chamber is concerned, we have said from the outset that this is one of the fundamental issues for us as regards the whole reform of the justice system. The Disciplinary Chamber is the place where it should actually be such a work organisation, so it should be organised so that citizens feel that disciplinary action is finally working as it should. Because most of the comments concerned disciplinary proceedings, they were the ones that aroused the greatest, you can say, social emotions because they often ended with decisions which in the public opinion were accepted as unfair. I do not want to support specific cases here, but in recent weeks there have been enough such cases - everyone has had the opportunity to see how disciplinary justice works in Poland. The question concerning jurors - the Member here signaled, one of the Members asked why these jurors should be from the Warsaw courts. It is simply a technical issue - because they have the closest, right, to the Supreme Court. There was something that had to be decided, and that is why the legislator, I think, the projectors, the Members have decided to point out the jury from these courts as those who will sit there, so to speak, during this transitional period. It's a question of needle and thread dancing. I cannot refer to Mr Brzechwa's work, here a greater specialist is, I understand, the Member who presented us a fragment of this poem. As regards the lack of a college opinion, the Member said that it would not be possible to consult the college in certain cases, e.g. in the case of stockpiling. Well, it's not exactly like that. [[It's not college. It's the first president.]] Yeah, but according to my knowledge, the president may consult, but he doesn't have to. It's a matter of... I think so. That's how I read the recipe. About the thing about... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But you know what you're talking about?]] Maybe I misunderstood... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: She does not seek an opinion.]] I'm sorry, I didn't answer you, so... Your Marshal, I am really trying to respond calmly, but the Member is extremely upset. [[Minister, the recipe says clearly that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u375	Minister, focus on the answers, and if you're done, we're moving on to the next speaker, the representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u376	As regards the issue of changes in the budget, this is a regulation - here I ask the Minister - of course, regardless of the fact that these arrangements for financing the Disciplinary Chamber are systematic, because it is not that the Public Finance Act is more important than other laws. So, of course, this is systemicly consistent, while a regulation of the Minister of Finance is being prepared in this respect, where there will be a separate chapter on the Disciplinary Chamber. This should meet the expectations of the Member. The Disciplinary Chamber, on the other hand, must have far-reaching autonomy. You can imagine a situation, ladies and gentlemen, in which the first President of the Supreme Court simply transfers funds - because it will have the possibility - from this pot, which is for the Disciplinary Chamber, to some other activity, practically paralyzing the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber. We can hypothetically imagine such a situation. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to remember what happened, among others. in recent weeks. In theory, it would seem that the first President of the Supreme Court should, from a formal legal point of view, convene a meeting of the National Judicial Council and this should happen immediately, while we are still waiting. It can therefore be said that the continuity of the functioning of one of the most important constitutional bodies, which protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judiciary, has been undermined. This sitting is still missing, so - as they said here, among others. Mr Ast or the rapporteur and the Member representing the group of applicants - we must work on the material we have. We also have a certain reality in this context, hypothetically we can imagine e.g. paralyzing the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber or the College. The situation is dynamic, and this is an extremely important act. Therefore, in order to ensure the functioning and continuity of this role, this role has been entrusted to the President - he receives certain powers that we have foreseen in this amendment. They are specifically foreseen in this amendment so as not to paralyze the functioning of the entire justice system, including that court. I think that's all the questions that were addressed. I don't know, I think that's it. So thank you very much, Marshal. And your marshal will try to answer, because I may have misunderstood the question. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u377	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: In writing.]] Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a representative of the applicants, I wanted to respond briefly to club speeches, mainly opposition speeches. The first point is the question of the procedure for the project. As for the fact that it is a system act - the law on the Supreme Court - it should be agreed, of course, but it is necessary to take also taking into account that in this case This is an amendment to the Act adopted on 8 December 2017 concerning the body's institutions, which were already included in the Act adopted on 8 December 2017. What institutions are we talking about? The budgetary autonomy is set out in Article. 7 of this law as the budgetary autonomy of the Disciplinary Chamber. It's already written down. What is the complement to this project? It is a question of adding § Article 5 and Article 6 Seven, who is talking about moving the spending limit so that those expenses on the Disciplinar Chamber, which currently does not exist... There is also no Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. After the date of entry into force of the Law on the Supreme Court, there are basically only three chambers, namely the Chamber of Penalty, the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance and the Civil Chamber, and the other two chambers will be created only after the entry into force of this Act, which says that 110 judicial posts are to be filled. And that is the second legal matter: the jury in the Supreme Court, in the Disciplinary Chamber, but not only in the Disciplinary Chamber, which rules in the first and second instance, in the jury. That's the record. Another issue concerning jurors is their participation in the recognition of an emergency complaint, when there must also be one juror in the benches. This legal issue concerning jurors is also enshrined in the Act of 8 December 2017. These changes, which concern transitional provisions, are due to the fact that there is a kind of obstruction on the part of the first President of the Supreme Court, who does not convene a meeting of the National Judicial Council, with the new composition chosen at the meeting of the Sejm on 6 March, which could already start work on 7 March. Today is April 11th and the first meeting of the National Judicial Council has not yet been convened. Why was it not convened? First of all, I want to remind you of the facts. First, the previous chairman of the National Courts Board resigned. Your first President was elected President of the National Judicial Council and resigned on 6 March this year. I believe it is not accidental that it was just on 6 March, because if she were still the President of the National Judicial Council, then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Judicial Council of 17 September 2017... I refer to § 3 of this Rules of Procedure, which states that the Chairman of the National Judicial Council shall convene a meeting as necessary, at least once every 2 months, and as he shall examine the meetings of the National Judicial Council of recent years, it is clear that during the year there are these meetings of 16 and 17, August is excluded from it, i.e. practically these meetings are almost every month, and in some months they are even twice. Of which § 3 there is also such a provision that, at the request of 1/3 of the members of the National Judicial Council and the Minister for Justice, the President of the National Judicial Council is required to convene a meeting of the National Judicial Council within 1 month. And since your first president of the Supreme Court has resigned, of course, this president is not here. I think it was intentional. The point was simply to obstruct the Supreme Court so that the Supreme Court judges could not be appointed by the President. This amendment merely aims at the fact that, during this transitional period, regardless of the decision of the first President of the Supreme Court, whether or not it will apply to the President to extend her judicial service for a period of three years or not... Such action delays the introduction of these provisions concerning the Supreme Court Act and, above all, the addition of the Supreme Court. The point is that five candidates can be presented to the President for the position of the first President of the Supreme Court - but not some part of the Supreme Court, but already full, 110 judges - and three candidates for the position of President of the Supreme Court. These changes are absolutely justified. As a representative of the applicants, I request that the High House adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u379	Thank you. Mr Milewski, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u380	Ladies and gentlemen! One of your fellow Members with questions - although his speech is hardly a question - spoke about needle and thread. It's a pity he left without waiting for an answer, because she's in the same poem at the end of it: they danced together until they sew the apron all over. And we will continue to reform the justice system until it reaches the state that Poles are waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u381	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law Rules on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints Nos 2388 and 2426). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to ask Parliament to proceed with the further examination of the draft presented. The committee was held on 11 April. The draft law was finally adopted at the committee meeting after a longer discussion and the committee asks that the High House continue to process it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u383	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u384	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on Draft Law No 2388. Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice consistently support this project. It is a project that is not of great legal value because it does not change, it does not bring anything into legal order, but it has a cleaning element, a normalization of the situation, but it is also intended to lead to a situation where it will be an argument to some extent in discussions with the European Commission. Three judgments - they concerned laws that are no longer in force today - were clearly issued in breach of the laws that were in force at the time, from June 2015 and July 2016. That's why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u385	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present its position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. First of all, I would like to say that we are opposed to the adoption of this project. We expressed this during the work in committee, where Boris Budka applied for rejection at first reading. Unfortunately, this proposal did not find recognition in the eyes of the PiS Members, but it was a pity. First of all, the draft contained in the report is contrary to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 and paragraph 1. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you: the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are universally binding and final and shall be immediately published in the official body. That's the constitution. It should be agreed with the Supreme Court's view that the quality of universality and finality of judgments cannot deprive the annotation to be included in them as a result of publication that they were issued in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 22 July 2016. Their validity comes directly from the provisions of the Constitution. Applicants shall use the time limit: the decision of the tribunal. It's a term unknown to the Constitution. You might ask, " Why do you want to publish a decision? ' What's the logic? Therefore, the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March, 11 August and 7 November 2016 should be published immediately in the Polish Monitor. The fact that they are not published is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. From this point of view, the draft law is unnecessary, completely unnecessary. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki should simply order the publication of the judgments I mentioned earlier, from March, August and November 2016. Art. 2 of the draft requires the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to arrange for the publication of judgments and decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in the relevant Official Journal, as stated in the Article. 2, issued in breach of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. However, it must be pointed out that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on 9 March 2016 ordered the publication of judgment K 47/15 in the Official Journal of the Constitutional Tribunal, K 39/16 on 11 August 2016, and K 44/16 on 7 November. Thus, the issuing of the order referred to in Article. Two, it's unobtrusive. Moreover, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal does not have the power to assess whether the judgment in question is in breach of the law. In the explanatory memorandum, you state that the proposed solution should contribute to the conclusion of the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal, strengthen its political position, and improve Poland's situation in the dispute with the European Commission. Nothing more vicious. Such regulation will not bring an end to the dispute with the European Commission. It's an apparent solution. The European Commission is talking about publication and full enforcement of judgments. And what about the so-called. The understudy judges who have been elected to the seats already filled? It should be assumed that they are acting unlawfully. And here is a quote from the Supreme Court's opinion: the President cannot refuse to take a vow from three judges properly elected by the VII Sejm, referring to the fact that they are currently in the Constitutional Court of persons elected to the seat of the VIII Sejm, from whom he has not taken the oath. Finally, we are talking about a project that has not been properly prepared by legislation. It consists of three articles. At the committee meeting, five or six amendments were tabled to these three articles. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your Marshal, High Izbo, for those reasons which I mentioned earlier, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform I would like to make a motion to reject at second reading the draft law amending the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u387	Thank you, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski, the Kukiz Club15. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This whole draft amendment to the Constitutional Tribunal Act is simply nothing more than a legal bang. It is completely indifferent in the light of the existing provision of the Article. 190 constitutions. If the alleged purpose of this project is to make it possible to publish judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, then let us remind you: the Article is an absolutely sufficient basis for the publication of judgments. 190 constitutions. Publication of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal is a duty, not a grace, which is exercised by the rulers. There's no need for any additional laws. Moreover, the filing of this bill is nothing but a confession by PiS politicians. This only confirms that this initial refusal by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to publish remains an example of a violation of the Constitution, and remains an example of a breach of criminal liability rules for failure to fulfil obligations. This involves responsibility and responsibility before the Court of State, and before the courts - sooner or later. High Izbo! Let us also note that this project also creates new fields for conflict, does not solve anything, it is not an option for an agreement with the European Commission. It sets a very dangerous precedent, which may be repeated once again, creates an unknown constitution and an absurd category of decisions by the Constitutional Tribunal, which the politicians of PiS for political reasons simply refer to as judgments handed down in violation of the law. Such wording simply bears the mark of the piS politicians' being placed before the Constitutional Tribunal, above the applicable law. This violates the principle of democratic rule of law as set out in Article. 2, the principle of independence, the division of authorities as set out in Article. Ten constitutions. The draft also introduces a regulation aimed at creating a mechanism for statutory review of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the light of this proposal, the Council of Ministers and the legislator, but also the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, will be able to carry out such verifications because they are authorised to manage the publication of decisions, but with a statement that they are issued in violation of the law. List of points where the same project the amendment is contrary to the constitution, it is really long enough to say that it should simply be thrown into the trash, what you should do. High Izbo! In conclusion, it is impossible to really resist the impression that what you have put forward today is simply a gem in this collection of your legal books, which you have been creating since 2.5 years. This Sejm really hasn't seen this kind of legal shit before. In practice, there is only one goal of working on this legal bubble. PiS policies are simply about blinding our partners from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, no one will fall for this. This project will not only serve to improve relations with Brussels, but may also expose us to even greater, additional problems. This is just an irresponsible little girl you're playing with the European Commission. It has to be said that from different... You think you want to end this diplomatic cold war you're fighting with Brussels. You may succeed in stopping sanctions that may be on the basis of an article by Hungary. 7, but unfortunately we must realise that it is because of PiS politicians that threatens Poland to lose aid in the next EU budget and that this is a very real loss. Today, at the sitting of the Justice Committee, one of the PiS Members, Mr Witold Czarnecki, exposed once again this unprecedented arrogance of the current ruling crew. When I drew attention to this real threat from the action of the PIS Members that Poles are threatened with the loss of billions of euros from the EU budget, he responded disrespectfully: we will survive, we will survive. Yes, you as Members of the PiS will manage - with your awards, access to the money from the Treasury companies - but how will the Poles cope? You don't care about Poles, you don't care about Poland, because you - with your prizes - will manage, because it is not the politicians of PiS who lose their cut in subsidies from the European Union, but will lose thousands of Poles, and the politicians of PiS simply don't care. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I apply for the rejection of this draft law, and if it is not accepted - it is for the amendments that I am proposing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u389	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the Law Rules introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the matters referred to in Article. 188 shall be immediately notified in the official body in which the normative act was declared. It is difficult not to get the impression that according to the state, according to the majority of the Sejm, the word "PiS" immediately obtained a new framework, without delay this period of 2 years. You are surprised today that the first non-constitutional meeting of the National Judicial Council did not take place. Because it has not yet been two years, according to the interpretation of this word made by Law and Justice. There's no such thing as legal flaws, but it's binding. The legislator is not from reviewing decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Among the decisions published in time are those of 3 and 9 December 2015. If they were respected, we would not have three doubles in the Constitutional Court. During that time, two understudy judges died. This situation was not used to supplement the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal with judges correctly elected in 2015. So how can we be sure that these judgments will work in the Polish legal order? Two years ago, President Jarosław Kaczyński did not see the possibility of publishing three judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The former Prime Minister, Beata Szydło, would say that in the future, she would have responded criminally if she had dared to do so. That's when the president of the PiS was honest: then or now, the question arises. The Constitutional Tribunal was to act quickly and efficiently, so you have assured from the beginning of the struggle for change. And how does it work today? Let's compare it because it's a good opportunity. 2015 and 2017, this comparison looks tragically, ladies and gentlemen. Judgments, including judgments, were twice as low, cases dealt with in the initial review were 2.5 times less, and cases dealt with in the substantive review were 3 times less in 2017 than in 2015. High Izbo! The Polish People's Party and the Union of European Democrats do not see the possibility of supporting this law. Really don't count on us to lay hands on this legal bubble. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u391	Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of Members asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba is the first question to be asked. Question time - 1 minute. I can't see. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. [[I didn't understand.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask what it means that the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment was rendered in violation of the law, and how it should be understood. This project creates a new precedent as it introduces a mechanism for verifying the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is necessary to give an answer in this Chamber, who has the powers to consider the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal to be rendered in breach of the law, and on what legal basis these powers are based. The Constitution does not provide for powers other than those set out therein. That is why I believe that this is a gross violation of the Constitution. Why does a group of Members push such unfavorable solutions by breaking the constitution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u393	I ask you to ask Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u394	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask applicants to indicate in the legal system in force in Poland a provision which allows them to consider that the decision in question is unlawful. Minister, we know very well that this can be done in a court of law. Only then do we have reason to believe that the decision is valid. As long as there is no such judgment, the judgment given under the law is in force. The same applies to decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. And, more, here is the provision in the Constitution that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are final and universally binding. And the state is simply a law, a law, not a judgment, and not a constitution, you're changing the basics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the rule of law. What's the recipe? Tell me, I'll use it in other situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u395	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wonder what this law is about, because the title refers to the Constitutional Court, but there is no Constitutional Court. We have Mrs Przyłębska claiming to be the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, we have some doubles, we are supposed to have judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal issued by persons who are not allowed to do so. What is this bill about? You're telling the applicant that you're lawyers, and you've been able to prepare such a wick, such a bullshit. I will say one thing: all those who have taught you the law should return the money for your education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u397	Now you are asking Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is actually an empty bill. It is intended only to confuse or blur the eyes of the European Commission so that it can be said that judgments are published now. There will be published judgments on laws that no longer exist and are therefore irrelevant, whereas the main issues raised by the European Commission in its recommendations are not completely resolved, including those resulting from the contested laws on the Constitutional Court. As has already been mentioned, control of the Constitutional Tribunal and its judgments is being introduced here. I do not know whether the Council of Ministers or the President of the Constitutional Tribunal himself will rule which judgments, decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are given in accordance with the law and which are given in violation of the law and which will therefore be published and which will not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] published. Well, there are no such powers in the constitution, of course. This bill is completely...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u399	Now I ask you to ask Mr Józef Lassota from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, this draft law on amending the law has two objectives. The first is the blindness of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. Of course, this is inept, but, as one Member said at the committee meeting, there is some blackmail, right, on the part of the European Union, so you are being blackmailed. But the second goal, in my opinion, which has not been drafted, is an attempt to protect a certain Mrs Beata Szydło, who was the Prime Minister, who claimed the right to accept that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal were unlawful before the Court of State. Well, you can't protect it. I don't ask questions because to whom do I ask questions? There is a rapporteur, who, like the canary keeps saying the same thing, is a tool that is meaningful, but it doesn't make sense. So I don't ask questions. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u401	I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u402	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the wording of the article. 190 of the Constitution of the Tribunal's ruling shall have universal force and shall be final and in the matters referred to in the Article. 188 shall be immediately notified to the official body. I read the constitution and, frankly, I'm looking for it, but it doesn't say anywhere that the PiS is entitled to verify these judgments. In the meantime, you're doing it. You have passed through the Constitution by completely ignoring its binding force. And now this project - how to picture it - by grabbing your right hand behind your left ear, you are trying to do well to expect our partners from the European Union that the PiS will respect international rights. And so I would like to ask the representatives of the applicants: Do you really think that someone who believes in the truth believes in values, believes in what is in common with us, believes in this fairy tale that you are telling by this law? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u403	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michael Wójcik to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u404	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll answer very briefly. The rationale for this is to stabilise the whole legal system and end the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Questions? And the answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u405	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, to speak. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, he does not know the answer. It's too hard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion at the committee meeting lasted for quite a long time over a relatively modest legal act, because it contains basically two provisions, since the third is only the issue of the entry into force of the first two. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would be most grateful if Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz will not disturb me. And it will allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u407	Member, this is not funny. If you want to talk, I'd like to invite you in. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: I always disturb you. I know that.]] No, not always, but occasionally.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u408	In fact, all of the arguments that appeared here today in the questions were in the course of the discussion. Namely, there were statements that the bill is unnecessary, because the issue of publication is governed by the constitution. During the discussion it was mentioned that the Constitution regulates the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, while the amendment we are currently proceeding on concerns the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. In particular, it must be said that the public authorities in accordance with the Constitution act on the basis of law and within the limits of the law, and therefore any document which is called a judgment begins in substance with the basis on which, under which rules, the body operates. The amendment concerns such decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, which cannot be referred to as a judgment. You asked who and how is in charge of assessing that this position of the Constitutional Tribunal is a judgment, and others are not a judgment, but a decision. The key issue, as you remember, also from that discussion, was that the Constitutional Tribunal settled the case in the composition of an unknown law. For example, the law stated that the case should be recognised in full and that the full composition was 15 judges. The Constitutional Tribunal ignored the rules and ruled in 5-person formation. You don't have to be an expert lawyer to be able to count to 15 and say that the sentence is actually a serious flaw. Since the State has sought, however, to ensure that such judgments are brought to light in order to be published, the amendment goes against it and does not concern judgments, not judgments, and decisions given in violation of the law. These decisions will be published in accordance with this amendment, stating that they have been taken in violation of the law. All this was mentioned at the committee meeting, and that is why, on the basis of those speeches that ignore a few hours of discussion in committee at all, I considered it appropriate to recall this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u409	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I would like to ask the floor of Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club. At the same time, I should like to inform you that Mrs Bernadette Krynicka made her statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! April is the World Autism Knowledge Month, which is why I want to provide some information about the Office's innovative activities. Persons with Disabilities of the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn against people studying with disorders from the spectrum of autism. In recent years, more and more people with a diagnosis of autism are studying at universities. Although the history of autism dates back to the first half of the 40s of the last century, the emergence of the possibility of obtaining a diagnosis falls in 1980 when it comes to child autism, and as regards Asperger's syndrome in 1994. Disorders from the spectrum of autism in the light of modern knowledge include a wide range of cases with varying intensity of individual symptoms. The latter include social and communication deficits. From the Bureau's data. People with disabilities at the University of Warmia and Mazury show that from year to year students with this type of disorders arrive. In the academic year 2012/2013 three students were officially registered in the office, and in the current year, 2017/2018, there are 20 students. This figure will continue to increase as diagnosis is now widespread. However, not all students with autism report to the office and register. People in the spectrum of autism in the lower education system are covered by various forms of support and receive the highest education subsidy. Those studying the spectrum of autism with highly developed cognitive abilities are hindered by difficulties in social relations and communication. They cannot benefit from their educational potential without adequate support coming from subsequent educational stages. The originality of thinking and approach to various issues and unique abilities, passion, detailed knowledge, ease of taking long-term effort make it possible for autistic people with appropriate support to develop their scientific and academic potential. Their abilities can become the basis for development in many scientific disciplines. All they need is an environment that can develop their talents and tolerate their differences. Since 2011, the Higher Education Act imposes the need to support students at Polish universities of persons with disabilities by creating conditions for full participation in the education and research process. The university receives grants for this purpose. Each disability has its own specific features for which appropriate solutions are needed, and this must be provided by the university. Office for Foreign Affairs People with disabilities at the University of Warmia and Mazury helps students with diagnosis of autism. It takes a number of initiatives related to the dissemination of knowledge about autism among students and employees, recognising the potential of universities to create an academic environment that is friendly to people with autism. Trainings for employees, workshops, actions, worldview campaigns, film screenings, meetings and lectures are being conducted for students bringing closer to the specifics of the sensory functioning of people with autism. Responding to the needs of the academic community, as well as appreciating the potential of students with autism spectrum disorders, the Office for Foreign Affairs. People with disabilities since 1 October 2017 launched the position of coordinator of education support for students with autism. This person's duties include: assistance in the proper organisation of the course of science and qualifications, organisation of meetings, mediation, cooperation with assistants of people with autism. This service is conducted as an innovative and pioneering solution on a national scale. After several months of activity, it can be concluded that this service is needed and that there are students who continue to benefit from this support. In March, a group of students from the spectrum of autism began to meet regularly. This is another novel, because usually such people operate at therapeutic centers. This student group is going to Krakow in June 2018 for a conference dedicated to the functioning of people from the spectrum of autism. In April we have a duty to talk about autism, tolerance, and we should all be aware of how many others [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all around us, but they're all very important and special. Autism is not a disease, it's a different perception of reality. We need to know and help autistic people so that in everyday life, education and professional work they can function just like everyone else. Research says if it weren't for autistic people...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u411	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u412	...there would be no Silicon Valley in the United States. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u413	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Puda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u414	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the 50th anniversary of the death of Zofia Kossak-Szczucka it is worth to approximate the figure of this great Polish woman. Zofia Kossak primo voto Szczucka is an outstanding Polish writer and social activist. She was born on August 10, 1889 in Kosmine nad Wieprzem. She died on April 9, 1968 in Bielsko-Biała. She was born of the famous aristocratic family of Kossacks. According to family tradition, she studied painting at the School of Fine Arts in Warsaw and drawing in Geneva. However, she did not continue her artistic work, but she and her husband returned to Volhynia and started running the farm. In 1917, on the revolutionary Volhynia, she witnessed the bloody speeches of peasants, murders on the ground and the plundering of manor houses. Memories of these events: The fire was issued in 1922 and became a literary debut. The most important element of her writing work was the historical prose, initiated by the novel "Blessed Wine." She devoted much of her work to the works and specifics of Silesia, especially her loved one because of her beloved estate in the Górki Wielki in Beskidy. However, the most famous work of the writer remains translated into many languages the novel cycle of the Crossmen. During World War II, she was active in conspiracy and charity. She was, among other things. the leader of the Polish Rebirth Front and the author of the magazine "Polska Żyje" (Polska Życie). In 1942, she was the author of a loud protest that responded to the liquidation of the Warsaw ghetto. Co-creator of the Council of Aid to Jews. In 1943, she was arrested and imprisoned in the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp. However, she is transferred to Warsaw to Pawiak and sentenced to the death penalty. Released by the efforts of the underground state. She participated in the Warsaw Uprising and remained in exile in England between 1945 and 1957. After returning to Poland, she continued her writing work. In 1964, former signatory of Letter 34 in defence of freedom of expression. For his work during the war, honored with a Medal of Righteous Among the Nations and a memorial plaque in Jerusalem. In recognition of the huge merits of Zofia Kossak-Szczucka on the 50th anniversary of her death we honor her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-04-11-sejm-61-1.u415	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 12 April 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 54]]
