ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Adam Andruszkiewicz, Marcin Duszek, Krystian Jarubas and Krzysztof Kubow to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Krystian Jarubas will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Krystian Jarubas and Krzysztof Kubów. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 2.30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team and the Parliamentary Raw Materials and Energy Team - at 10 a.m. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: investments: Złoczew - exploitation of the brown coal deposit as part of the energy security of the country 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 5:15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u3	In fact, the committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and certain other laws, - amending the Law on Hunting and amending the Law on Hunting Law, - on the amendment of the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments issued against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2243, 2234 and 2237. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 23rd agenda: The report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of Juliusz Lea, President of the City of Krakow in the 100th year of his death will not be considered. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question was formulated by MEPs Robert Kołakowski, Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka, Elżbieta Kruk and Anita Czerwinska from Law and Justice. The question on the measures taken by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in the area of the protection of monuments is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. I ask Mr Robert Kołakowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Last year the National Heritage Institute published a report on the state of preservation of landmarks in Poland. According to the report, about 10% The monuments are in a bad state of behavior. The material presented in the report includes not only test results, but also additional elements, among others. legal issues, the state of documentation or the level of funding. This makes it not only a state of behavior report, but also, above all, a diagnosis concerning the condition of the entire system of protection of monuments. The report presents a number of recommendations that can be divided into three groups: the first is the need for systemic changes in the protection of monuments, the second is related to the needs and state of historical documentation, the third concerns popularization and public acceptance. The Ministry under your direction, Prime Minister, is taking a number of steps to effectively protect the monuments. A very valuable initiative was the preparation of an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, which created the National Monument Protection Fund. It is also worth mentioning the previous amendment, from June ub. R., which significantly increased the competence of the monument conservator general. These are actions in the right direction, they have been long-awaited by the conservation environment, but further changes are needed. Prime Minister! What further actions are planned by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for the protection of monuments? What are the main objectives and priorities of the Ministry's activities in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u5	I would like to ask you to respond to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for this question, because the protection of monuments in Poland is one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. As you know, funds for culture have exceeded the 1.1% threshold. the state budget and amounted to around PLN 4 billion in total. In the last two years, we have managed to increase the expenditure on culture by more than 20%, so at the moment we have over 4 billion from the state budget for culture, of which only a part is spent on historic activities. We look after monuments both in Poland and outside Poland, especially when it comes to Polish cultural heritage. We have also recently established several new cultural institutions that will only be working in the area we are talking about. Since 1 January 2018, the National Institute of Polish Cultural Heritage has been operating abroad. This is a long-standing request - a call to set up an institution that will be more efficient both in an operational sense in the East when it comes to caring for our heritage, and for example. in the field of support for Polish or Polish cultural institutions mainly functioning in the West, which require support. This is also linked to the current amendment of the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, which is intended primarily to enable direct financing of these Polish institutions by the Polish State. So far it was impossible, it was done in the form of a project, while many of the institutions that care about Polish monuments, about Polish cultural heritage abroad, simply require direct support and maintenance by the Polish state. This new regulation is being implemented, so here there are many new opportunities for greater responsibility, greater activity of the Polish state in this field. We have established the National Institute of Architecture and Urban Science, which will primarily affect spatial governance. This also concerns the issue of revitalization, the issue of proper condition, the well-being of Polish monuments. We also created new museums, which include: they take care of monuments, e.g. monuments in the field of technology. We're finally on call. The National Technology Museum and soon it will be open. It's in the Palace of Culture, just like it used to be. Many different organisational and financial problems have been solved. So this is new, too. Of course, the National Monument Protection Fund, which you mentioned, is the largest and most important newly established institution. We're predicting this year's National Monument Protection Fund... Let me remind you: this is extra-budget financing of monuments. For the first time in Poland we have an institution which will raise funds for monuments outside the budget. The first source of resources for this fund is administrative penalties, but we do not want to limit ourselves to penalties. We want this, like the national environmental fund, to be an institution that will be supported by fees. Yeah, but we need a consensus here. Or get most of it in the Seym. We will propose - and this is a question of the future, this year there will be a proposal - to introduce some reasonable fee for monuments, precisely for this National Monument Protection Fund. What form will she be in? I don't want to get ahead of myself right now, but we're going to propose a small fee that would consist of this fund, our monuments. On the other hand, the Ministry of Culture has a programme for the protection of monuments as regards its core activities in the area of antiquities. This program was increased by about 20%, by PLN 20 million. This was the level of about PLN 90 million so far, at the moment it is the level of PLN 112 million. This is the basic program the Ministry is running. We have managed, as I say, to increase the funding of this programme. In the last 2 years thanks to this program and thanks to the competitions that are being carried out, we have been able to finance renovation, renovation of 1057 monuments throughout Poland. This is the basic program we're running. We've increased its scope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because that's the basis we can do. Shall I continue, or shall I not say more?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u7	The Prime Minister will still have time for the second question. Now I ask Mr Kołakowski to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Thank you very much for answering my question, but I would like to ask you an additional question. In my initial report on the state of preservation of landmarks in Poland, among the weaknesses of our antiquities protection system, we have identified insufficient staff resources in relation to the needs and tasks of antiquities protection authorities and other entities carrying out similar tasks. Hence my question: Is the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage going to take any action to solve this problem in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u9	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u10	Yes, of course, as you mentioned, we have made at least two major amendments to the functioning of our conservation services and monuments. The aim of this last amendment was to strengthen the conservation services. This is a change of functioning. We didn't complete the re-assembly, but the conservators will be appointed - only at the request of the general conservator of monuments. The idea is to keep the conservators off the local layouts a little bit so that the general conservator of monuments is responsible for the appointment, but the services remain in the voivodeship, so this is a compromise solution. I think this is a step in the right direction, because the main problem of the services, one of the many problems, was that sometimes there were some local agreements that were difficult to break, and this social interest, the public interest was not properly pursued. I hope it gets better now. We've also increased the funding. We managed to obtain special funding for the services in the budget, because this payment of our conservation services was very, very low and these increases of individual salaries in individual voivodships were from a dozen to 40% in terms of salary increases. So this is the first step we could take to improve the quality of service. But at the same time I wanted to say that these issues, issues that we have solved and which improve the quality of Polish monuments - and I have to say this because it is very important - these are some point great actions, such as the purchase of the collection of the Czartoryski princes or the allocation of perpetual capital for the care of the Jewish cemetery at Okopowa in Warsaw. These are our symbolic decisions. There were a lot more of them, because we bought, for example. The castle of the Czartoryski princes in Gołuchow for the National Museum in Poznań, because it was not owned by the museum and it is used. So there were a lot of decisions like that. Well, I'm glad we made it. But there's two more things I wanted to say. Firstly, the allocation of Structural Funds. We managed to achieve what was planned for four years in two years. About PLN 2 billion was allocated to 99 projects. These are projects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like repairing certain parts of Wawel or Jasna Góra. 99 projects can't be... I'm not gonna go into details. And one more thing to say is that this is a great programme of thermomodernization of artistic schools. 139 artistic education institutions are 500 million PLN. These are usually monuments in small towns. It improves the state of the monuments, while at the same time increasing energy efficiency and increasing, improving the quality of functioning of these buildings and artistic schools. I don't have more time, so I can't go into details, but that's about as much as I can say in such a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is raised by Grzegorz Matusiak, Grzegorz Janik, Teresa Glenc and Czesław Sobierajski from Law and Justice on the payment of compensation for the loss of the right to free coal for pensioners and widows and orphans. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Would the Member be kind enough to have a phone call in the cockroaches? Mr President, I am directing this to you. Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The present law was very expected, especially by pensioners and pensioners. It concerns the possibility of paying compensation benefits for the loss of the right to a free coal depot. I am aware that this process is still ongoing, but there is already a lot of controversy around this law, so I have a specific question: Is the Ministry of Energy working on a solution regarding the possibility of obtaining such compensation by widows and orphans from the dead miners? The Civic Platform is very concerned about this problem, even though it is because of it that we today have this problem that we need to solve. I hope that we will solve it quite effectively and we can simply tell all these people that we are restoring what the Civic Platform has taken.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to add in this part to the question, because we know that this large process of payment of compensation for the loss of the right to free coal allowance has started, I wanted to ask you about the degree of implementation. Are there any differences between Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and the Polish Mining Group? How many people were even entitled to this benefit? How many people have applied? How much did she get? Are there persons who have applied for and have not yet received this benefit? When does the Ministry plan to terminate this benefit in the first version? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u14	Thank you, and I'm asking you another question. No? Please, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for bringing this up. Indeed, the compensation bill adopted on 24 October last year was quite strongly discussed in Parliament. We have reached consensus, which shows that the decision to adopt such a law was justified. Indeed, there was a great deal of concern about whether we could implement the whole project in such a short period of time and, in particular, accept 235 thousand in a few weeks. conclusions. I think it was a huge undertaking that we had to face as a ministry, but they also had to face up to the companies concerned. I am referring to the Company of Restructuring of Mines, the Polish Mining Group, Jastrzębska Coal Company, Tauron Extraction and Bogdanka. I may begin by answering the second question, Mr Janik, and then I will answer Mr Matusiak's question about widows. As far as last year is concerned, last year we accepted, we realized, because all the applications that were submitted were immediately reviewed... Last year we were able to pay out, realize 187 thousand by the end of the year. conclusions. Then we asked for a transfer of payment possibilities by the end of March this year, so at the end of the first quarter we close the entire project. Today I can say that we have 20,000 left to consider. conclusions. On the other hand, on the issue of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, it de facto ended the entire operation, as did Bogdanka, Tauron Wyborcza and the Polish Górnicza Group. All we have left is the Mining Restructuring Company. Why? Because there we have conclusions that result from the fact that employees during the restructuring as pensioners passed along with their assets under formal supervision of SRK, therefore this company is able to consider these conclusions. On 5 February - we specifically checked to have fresh data - we have paid 1977 million, so almost 200,000. applications shall be dealt with. We have 11,000. Conclusions, exactly 11,183, negatively considered. This is because they either do not meet the requirements of the applications or do not comply with the formal requirements of the persons who submitted them. There are also proposals for improvement when the documents are incomplete. Currently, together with ZUS and other archival law firms, we are trying to recreate the correct state of the documentary resources. With regard to widows and orphans, whose subject is now raised in various discussions, especially by some parliamentarians of the opposition - I thank some very much for getting involved in this whole process - I must say that we, as a government, are restoring something in the form of compensation... I do not want to comment or rightly, but I am responsible for those parliamentarians who do not remember that they were in the previous term and it was during the time of the PO-PSL government that coal sales in the hard coal sector were taken away. I am not saying, whether right or wrong, but it has been received effectively, and today is a great shout and making proposals. There is harm to a certain environment, because, as you know, if someone has at least a little orientation in the restructuring process, he knows that the process of providing compensation for all widows and orphans is so complex that there is probably no one in Poland today who can clearly determine the legal status of these people. Why? Because we had different collective agreements, at different times there were different records in different companies. In our bill, we were right to - and we were discussing it - we covered the largest group, and it was the most affected group, because pensioners who lost their powers in the form of a deputy when they were already retired. We have added widows, orphans and pensioners who, when retired, lost their powers, which is the weakest and largest group in this collection that we could identify and describe. As for all widows and orphans related to the restructuring process itself, I must say that we are now diagnosing this because we are aware of the scale, but believe me - as I said, it is such a complex process, we have such legal cases - that if anyone... This law, which was submitted to the Marshal's staff by some parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, testifies to the lack of knowledge about the restructuring process that took place since 1989 in Poland, especially since it was in the time of the previous government that these powers were taken away, and today the same parliamentarians behave as if they did not know what was going on when they were Members, and unfortunately they are trying to raise political capital on a group very affected by the decisions of their government. This, in my opinion, is very inelegant. I feel a little sorry for these parliamentarians that they cannot be involved in this so that we are able to analyse this process comprehensively and fairly, and then, if we can manage, in some way, the harm caused by the resignation of the deputies, to compensate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u16	Thank you, Minister. And I ask for an additional question from Mrs Teresa Glenc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a large group of people who are grateful for this bill, who are satisfied with the restored deputy, and there is a group who are somehow dissatisfied and expect solutions from the Ministry. It's a group of employees. Is the Ministry of Energy working on granting compensation for the loss of the right to a free coal depot to miners who lost this debt as workers, regardless of the year in which they retired? You're welcome, Minister, to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u18	Thank you. And here you are, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In her question, she has indeed touched on a very important issue. She appears on the occasion of various interventions in the parliamentary offices, as well as social questions to the ministry. There's a group that wasn't covered by the bill. I'll tell you why. Because we have been able to describe our law, determine the legal status of pensioners who have lost their rights while already retired. I would like to say that the withdrawal of deputies was linked to the termination of collective agreements, i.e. employers with representatives of the social side. This has been one-sided, but it has been said effectively. We are to write down a legal problem so that we can determine precisely that those who were employees and lost these rights, once they were retired or pensioned, did not have that right. This group is today 12,000. persons. The problem is to include them in the bill. There is a question about equality of professions with regard to access to certain rights, because we also have other groups that we would regulate by law. The only retirement group in Poland, which was deprived of the pension rights, was the group indicated in the Compensation Provision Act. However, we do have a certain dialogue with the social side. The problem is diagnosed, the number is determined, that's 12,000. persons. The largest number of people were employees of the Polish Mining Group, because they were also in Katowice Holding Węglowy, who with all his assets and liabilities moved to PGG. We have some of the persons covered by the service, if we consider this, in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and some are subject to SRK, the Company for Restructuring of Mine. In our sense, the point is, if we wanted to regulate it... We agreed that we would meet in the middle of the year in companies, in Jastrzębska company, in PGG, because SRK has a different statute to check whether there is a consensus of the public party that individual companies where employees work... whether these entities are able to bear a certain amount of benefits or any compensation for lost deputies. Hence the declaration. I didn't want to commit so much... We agreed that we would sit in companies in June, see what their financial condition is, and we would assess whether we could think about how this could be the problem, whether this year or in the years to come, take care of it and look at it. We have to note one thing: we have a problem with putting these people in compensation by law, because there is a procedure, we have to pay tax, ZUS, so this amount [[♪ The bell ♪]] It becomes bigger, not like in the Compensation Act. But this is the issue that will be the subject of our deliberations this year, and we will see in the second half of the year what will be the outcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u20	Thank you, Minister. We move to the next question, formulated by Andrzej Halicki and Rafał Grupiński from the Civic Platform, on the opening of criminal proceedings against those responsible for anti-Semitic publications on Polish Television. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! We address the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic, because it is the government that is responsible for the actions of an institution protecting the image of Poland and, above all, protecting the law. We are dealing with the passiveness of the prosecution when we have racist attacks, promotion of symbolism of totalitarianism, fascist, recently wave of anti-Semitic statements in the state institution, public, which is Polish Television. When will the D.A. finally be doing her job? When it's gonna start with an art. 256 ex officio actions? These are crimes that are criminalized in Polish criminal law. It can't be that nationalists and nationalists thank the District Attorney of Ziobra publicly for dying or pardoning. The prosecutor's office is to protect the law and the image of Poland. We demand a response. When will action be taken against the editors of Ziemkiewicz or Wolski who mocked the gas chambers? When will actions be launched towards the Polish Television Board, which distributes anti-Semitic statements? When will the prosecution act in the interest of the Polish state and protect the good image of Poland? Do we have to wait again for a few months, like after 11 November, for the prosecution to see the Nazi symbolism on the march, to promote racist slogans such as the black sun or the racist glorification of the white race? Poland is plunged into a brown abyss, because the prosecution's office is passive. We demand government response and action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u22	Thank you. And I ask you to respond to Mr Robert Hernand's deputy Attorney General.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Abstracting from the statements made by the Member, I would like to inform you that the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw, at the request of the Prosecutor-General, is conducting a review of the statements made by the editors mentioned by you. As you know exactly, everyone in this room knows, the purpose of the investigation is to determine whether there are grounds and indications for committing an offence under Article. 257 Penal Code. Let me read it, Mr President: "Who publicly insults a group of people or a particular person because of their national, ethnic, racial, religious or because of their unrecognizance, or for such reasons violates the physical integrity of another person, is punishable by imprisonment up to 3 years old. The purpose of the investigation is to determine whether these specific statements have fulfilled the marks of this particular criminal provision. Depending on the outcome of these proceedings, the prosecutor shall have the possibility of initiating a preliminary investigation or refusing to initiate a preliminary investigation. On this point, Mr President, as regards the written content of the question addressed to you by the President of the Council of Ministers. In the rest, I will not refer to this statement, because I am only answering this specific question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u24	Thank you. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u25	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask, then, whether the prosecution conducts proceedings similar to those referred to by the prosecutor, against the Board of Polish Television, because various kinds of accusations and anti-Semitic returns were distributed not in one broadcast, but in many of them, including in I would like to draw attention to just one entry: Can concentration camps be transferred to Israel? Let them take them and be Jewish then. Isn't an hour-long festival of this kind of expression on public television screens not just a breach of art. 257 and Art. 256, but also the Public Media Act? There is a clearly formulated mission of these media, and it is undoubtedly a mission formulated positively, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to education and message. It is not about this medium being used to spread hatred or dislike against racial or religious background.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Deputy Attorney General Mr. Robert Hernand.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u27	Dear Member, as I said earlier, this is a checking procedure. Here I would like to complete my statement on the question made by your fellow Members. It concerns these specific two programmes and therefore also covers this scope. On the other hand, I am unable to answer that question, I think... Does the Public Media Act contain a criminal provision? As far as I can remember, no. There are therefore specific indications that have occurred or have not occurred in connection with such statements, not with other content or disclosures. And that's all I can answer on this purely legal issue from the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u28	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question formulated by Paweł Skutecki and Wojciech Bakun of Kukiz15. The question about irregularities revealed by the chief pharmaceutical inspector concerning the storage and use of vaccines in Lubuskie voivodship and other regions of Poland is addressed to the Minister of Health. I ask Mr Paweł Skutecki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u29	Thank you. Minister, revealed by the Journal of Gazeta Prawna and detected by the Lubuskie health and pharmaceutical inspections, the issue of knowingly vaccinating children with dangerous, expired or misplaced products has resulted in a dramatic decline in parents' trust in Polish health services. Many parents today with great fear He's looking at his inoculated children. We know that the situation similar to the situation in Lubusek, according to media reports, also took place in other regions of the country, including. in areas covered by last August's storm - on the border between Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie voivodships, where there were even several days of blackouts in the supply of electricity, and vaccinations were probably carried out without interruptions. In November 2008, at the meeting of the Senate Health Committee, the Chief Health Inspector said, quote: At the moment, we did not actually have to dispose of any batch of vaccines. We came to such perfection that when it comes to logistics, all the vaccines were used 100%, nothing had to be disposed of. I think we're one of the few countries in the world who's doing that. Minister, how are you going to do that? Are we dealing with the eradication of vaccines? Do we give them to our children even though they are in danger? Are these the actual recommendations of the health care centre? Minister, are the Minister's words about the fact that vaccines were completely safe despite their defective storage, the official position of the Polish government, contrary to what the vaccine producers say? Minister, and last question: Will we get, and if so, when, the full report, the full documents of the checks that have been carried out, as a result of which irregularities have been detected?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u30	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Marcin Czecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u31	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Thank you for asking. The matter has two fundamental aspects, Mr President. The first is patient safety, i.e. whether those vaccinated with these vaccines are immune and safe. This was a fundamental issue, the first issue that we wanted to clarify at the Ministry of Health, and for this purpose I also set up a team to deal with it immediately. It should be pointed out beyond any doubt that the vaccines they were vaccinated with were approximately 400 of them - are fully safe and effective. How do we know that? We know this from experts who worked at the Ministry of Health, and we know this from a report from the World Health Organization, which I have on me right now and which I am showing you, I am very happy to give you my references. This report determines the stability of vaccines - precisely listed vaccines that have been used in Lubuskie Voivodeship - in terms of temperature. These vaccines could be used and fully protect individuals who have been vaccinated with these vaccines in a safe manner up to a temperature range of up to 27 degrees, including up to 37 degrees for an appropriate period, depending on the type of vaccination. This is one aspect and this is the most important aspect - the safety aspect. The second issue is the operation of a vaccine chain monitoring system. The manufacturer's recommendation is that vaccines should be stored and transported in the refrigeration chain, i.e. at a temperature of 2 to 8 °C. In Lubuskie voivodship we had to deal with the interruption of such a chain, as a result of weather events. Safety, i.e. these very restrictive requirements, is under the supervision of the State Sanitary Inspection together with the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. And here, in agreement with the voivodeship, we have recreated a whole series of events about how the services have reacted since 26 October, when the Lubuskie voivodship pharmaceutical inspector, who carried out the inspection and found that the conditions for the storage of vaccines had been violated. Then both services, acting jointly, carried out checks in the units that carried out these vaccinations. In accordance with what we learned from the Lubuskie voivodeship, practically all entities suspected were checked. 20 therapeutic subjects were checked and 20 more were monitored just after this point I was talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! I said 448 people who received these vaccines, so that in this sense this report is made. I have here the exact names of these subjects, the names of the vaccines and the number of people who received these vaccines. However, I also have letters from vaccine manufacturers who tell you how long their vaccines are safe after the break-up of the refrigeration chain, which is those companies that are most restrictively approaching the safety of their products. For example, tetanus vaccine may be used for 6 months for vaccination if stored at a temperature of not more than 36 °C against hepatitis B for a period of 6 months if stored at a temperature of not more than 25 °C. These are letters from several producers. Why all the discrepancies? This is a little like that - please forgive me, it may be a very simple comparison - as we keep food products in the refrigerator, dairy products on which it is written: please keep at refrigeration temperature, it is often written, very much like for vaccines, from 2 to 8 degrees. If we have a power outage at home, we usually don't search this fridge, at least most of us don't throw away all the yogurts, cheese, butter, etc., but we normally use them. Most often there are no consequences. This analogy, please don't smile, I checked with the biotechnologists I discussed it with today, this is, ladies and gentlemen, superprevention and cold blowing, the distribution chain. Otherwise, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, these vaccines could not be used in hot African countries where this chain is automatically interrupted. I am prepared to answer any additional questions orally and in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u32	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Wojciech Bakun's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u33	I'd like to ask, Minister. The report you're referring to, which is the WHO report, is actually saying that some vaccines are safe even at the break of the cooling chain. You mentioned two of the safest ones here. What, for example? with vaccine: measles, mumps, rubella, which according to this report is one of the most sensitive to temperature changes, and was also used in these vaccinations? But that's not exactly what I'd like to ask. I would like to ask from the point of view of ordinary citizens: Have those people who have been vaccinated - or their children - been informed that they have been vaccinated with a vaccine that may not work? It is in the case of infectious diseases that has a different meaning than e.g. for hepatitis B vaccine, which is a preventive vaccination e. g. before medical procedures and avoid infection with this disease, and these individuals may have simply not obtained such immunity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, I agree that this vaccine is not the vaccine that is least sensitive. Is the health of these people monitored and, above all, will they report these cases to the prosecutor's office? Because if we read on the Ministry's website that it could endanger health and life, there is such information on the Ministry of Health's website, then I understand that it is exhausting the article. 160 Penal Code, that is, exposure to life or health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Czech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u35	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As I said, we have complete lists of centres and lists of the number of vaccinations that have been carried out. You're right to mention this vaccine, but it's also in this WHO table, which indicates the safety of its use for some time after breaking that restrictive control of the distribution chain, which is also used safely. I stress this once again: these vaccines were stable, safe and effective. As to the question of the initiation of prosecution proceedings, we, through our services, both the State Sanitary Inspection and the State Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, are investigating individual centres, individual cases of use of these preparations, as there has been a breach of the procedure and these procedures have not worked in an appropriate manner as they should, i.e. Whereas the services acted accordingly, this notification should leave the entity and therefore the prosecution proceedings are pending in this case. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u36	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, formulated by Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Krzysztof Truskolaski and Mirosław Suchowi from Modern Poland, on the government's actions regarding the repair of Polish-Israeli relations and the fight against anti-Semitism in Poland. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u37	Today, of course, we are all concerned about the collapse of Poland's reputation in the world, and this ruling party is responsible for this situation, but by ignoring those crimes that are caused by hatred, you create an atmosphere of consent for violence, xenophobia and nationalism. The real question is whether the government will finally change its policy on this matter. We would all like this hurtful formulation of the Polish death camps to be eliminated from the public debate, but the actions of the current government have led to the fact that this unfair expression has appeared in all world media. At the same time, an unprecedented wave of anti-Semitic hatred has been passing through Poland for several days and this must be called by name. It was the policy of the PiS government and the silent consent to xenophobic behaviour that led to this situation, this explosion of hate speech, and it must be said decisively not to all forms of anti-Semitism. Protecting our country's good name is precisely such a firm opposition to anti-Semitic behavior. Every word of PiS politicians in the public debate, every entry in social media, every text that is anti-Semitic, harms Poland. That is why we ask whether the institutions of the state will finally react decisively in any such case. Do the authorities and authorities still intend to ignore this problem? What exactly is the government going to take on this issue? How does he intend to correct these Polish-Jewish relations? How is he going to respond to this rising wave of anti-Semitism? Or, for example, Did the police apprehend the perpetrator of the beating of a 14-year-old woman with dark skin? Do you intend to draw consequences for officers who, in accordance with the judgment of the court, abused the anti-nationalist picket on 11 November? Are you going to respond to the anti-Semitic information strip on TVP Info or the article that was published on Twitter? If in an undisputed case, such as [[♪ The bell ♪]] TVN case, a million-dollar penalty has been imposed, in the case of TVP Info, where we have an obvious case of anti-Semitic entries on information strips, this penalty should also be imposed and should be multi-million-dollar. What action will be taken...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u38	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u39	...the Polish government on the fight against the growing wave of anti-Semitism in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u40	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let me focus on the thread I'm responsible for, which is foreign policy. Please contact the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or the National Radio and Television Council respectively. However, I must say that, first of all, there is no consent to anti-Semitic, xenophobic behaviour. The most important representatives of the Polish state have said this many times: President Andrzej Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. There's no permission to do that, and there's never been one in the ruling camp, and it's just not there. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any cases, these are the behaviour of the marginal groups, by no means anyone from the government camp. In fact, this law is very necessary, because the Polish state must have a tool to respond effectively to the insulting of Poland and Poles, for telling Poland and Poles false things, false crimes during World War II. We all know that death camps, concentration camps were German, the Holocaust was a German work. Thanks to these regulations, we as a Polish country will be able to react more effectively. We're already reacting ruthlessly. There is no slight indulgence for this kind of insulting Polish nation. Poland intervenes every time such entries, articles, publications appear. We demand corrections, we demand clarification by the editorial offices. Very often, if this is due to ignorance, from error, the editors publish corrections. We have also managed to ensure that in the editorial offices we are constantly included in such a carbon, a scheme that is read by every editor who writes about the themes of World War II. This has been the case for really many important world titles, but it can happen that some editors, some actors systematically, despite our interventions, publish defaming Poland and damaging us in an unimaginable way. Finally, we have a legal tool, such as many countries in the world, including Israel, to respond. And the Polish state will react, the Polish state will fight for the good name of Poland, because it is a fight not only for the past, but also for Poland's position, Poland's opinion today and Poland's position, Poland's opinion in the future. That's why we have to react hard here. Debate, discussion, emotions around this bill are the result of a misunderstanding. The Polish government, Polish diplomacy, is doing everything possible to explain these misunderstandings. We want to get to the bottom of this: (a) the substance of the matter, the events of World War II, (b) the provisions of the Act themselves. Let us stress: under no circumstances will they interfere with artistic freedom, freedom of science. This must be clearly emphasized. Already now, the debate on this law, on changes, on this effective fight against the lying, insulting words of Poland is working. I would like to draw attention here, for example, to the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, who clearly and very strongly emphasized that Germany is the nation, the country responsible for the Holocaust, for the crimes of the Second World War. Thank you very much to the Minister for these important words that we have been waiting for and which, of course, I think will continue to be around Europe for a long time. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no and there has never been any consent to anti-Semitic behavior. I recommend reading the statements of the most important people in the country, with Mr President and Prime Minister in charge. I ask that in these events, this fight for truth in the international arena, we all be together, whether from the ruling camp or from the opposition, be together. Then we'll be more effective. That's what other countries do. Unfortunately, it's very different with us. When Poland is attacked in an international forum, unlike what is in many other countries, the opposition joins this attack. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u42	Thank you, Minister. I would like an additional question from Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u43	Minister! Then I have five questions and I'll ask for five specific answers. What exactly are you going to do, what is the government going to do about standardising bilateral relations with Israel? When is the Prime Minister going to make an official visit to Israel? Is Polish diplomacy going to do something - and what - about improving Polish-American relations after criticism from the State Department, even yesterday? Did and when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs signaled to the Prime Minister or the Government that the IPN Act in its shape would bring international confusion and trouble? Is it true that the only person consulted was Maciej Świrski, now vice president of the Polish National Foundation? Five questions. I'd like five specific answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u44	And that's the end of it. Thank you very much. Please, Minister Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we are already taking all steps to explain the truth about this law to the Israeli side and other countries. Any misunderstandings that have grown around this bill... Let us stress once again that this law - this is clearly written - does not affect the freedom of scientific research, freedom of art, freedom of artistic expression, so the accusations that arise around these arguments are treated as a misunderstanding that needs to be clarified. We hope for a quick meeting of the Polish-Israeli group, which was set up, headed by Deputy Minister Cichocki, and we hope that thanks to the work of this group all misunderstandings will be explained. This bill is good, but you just have to explain the misunderstandings around it. As for the meeting of Prime Minister Morawiecki with Prime Minister Netanyahu, I am convinced that due to the relationship between Poland and Israel, even in the geopolitical dimension, this meeting will take place. It's just a matter of meeting calendars for both prime ministers. As far as the United States is concerned, here, too, is the question of clarifying all misunderstandings and, of course, the Polish government, Polish diplomacy is working on it. When it comes to signals, of course, those signals were. And here... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: When? When?]] When they were... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: When did the Ministry signal?]] When did the ministry signal? It signaled a while ago, at least a few months ago. [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Minister, please.]] A few months ago. If you were interested...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u46	You're right, you're right. Member, please don't ask questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: ...an exact term... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Contacts, please.]] You can ask in writing. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: ...that, of course, we can deliver. So thank you very much. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Please write in writing.]] Thank you. The next question was formulated by Members Jan Łopata and Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, and this is a question about the implementation of the Water Law Act, and is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please, Mr Jan Slopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the form of a question in the current, regular formula, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, there is the task of this question in writing and, of course, in such a form we asked and we asked about the organizational state of the State Water Farm of Poland. We have formulated this question - whether these questions - on the basis of conversations with recipients, which are usually entrepreneurs and local governments, as well as employees of this institution and the picture of cases is exactly what we presented in this written question. Minister! In advance, perhaps, of your answer, maybe now we can prove that there are no bias charges about the political nature of this question. And here's a quote: All the problems are due to the unprepared by the crew who was two years old, but she didn't do anything. Nothing was ready at the end of last year. Mr Marcin Jacewicz, the head of the NSZZ "Solidarity" in Polish Waters, said this sentence for the press. Mr Jacewicz is also the author of the statement that because of the lack of employment contracts and the clear scope of duties, the work of the Polish Waters is disturbed. And a quote from his statement: The scriptures go as they please. Well, you will admit, Minister, that this sounds crazy. We are guessing, and this is confirmed by our conversations with these recipients, entrepreneurs, local governments, that when it comes to these writings and the fact that they walk as they please, these are letters concerning decisions, appeals, projects, etc. This is very disturbing. The question is, what does it look like today? And additional: Mr Daca, President of Polish Waters, continues to uphold the statement made one month after the date of entry into force of the Act on the fact that, I quote from his statements: joining in a short time an organization that operates throughout the country is not easy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, a specific question: When will the statute for Polish Waters be given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u48	Thank you. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation by Mr Jerzy Materna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members asking questions! On the basis of the Act of 20 July 2017, Water Law on 1 January 2018 was established the National Water Farm of Polish Waters, which is the main entity responsible for water management in our country, a new organisation which has accumulated the dispersal competence in the management of water resources. By Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 11 January 2018 in force from 9 January 2018, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation was designated as supervising the operation of: Water Management. Since 1 January, claims, obligations, rights and obligations of the National Water Management Board and regional water management boards have been taken over by the Polish Waters. The new institution has also become a party to agreements concerning certain investments carried out by local authorities. The task of the National Water Farm of Poland is the timely completion and subsequent maintenance. The direct cause of water reform is the obligation to implement the provisions of Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000, so-called. the Water Framework Directive, which establishes a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. The implementation of the reform was a condition which Poland had to fulfil in order to benefit from the resources and operational programmes in the European Union for the period 2014-2020. We also need rational management of water resources due to their limited resources. In this respect, Poland is the penultimate place in Europe. One inhabitant of our country has 1600 m3 of water per year, i.e. three times less than on average in Europe. It also introduced a different system of financing water management in Poland, which is an important component of the system of fees for water services. Due to the expected balancing of revenue and expenditure of the State Water Farm, the functioning of this state legal entity will be possible to assess properly and reliably at the end of 2018. As far as labour issues are concerned, it should be pointed out that employees of the State Water Farm Polish Waters have a regulated employment relationship, they have employment contracts. According to the Act Water Law, employees of the State Water Farm of Poland on 1 January became employees of the former National Water Management Board, KZGW, former regional water management boards, RZGW, and employees of local self-government units who were included in the lists submitted among others. by the Marshals of the voivodships to the Minister responsible for water management. In the case of employees of KZGW, the RZGW took place in accordance with Article. 23 The Labour Code, which states that if an employer takes over an establishment or part of it, it becomes legally a party to existing employment relationships. Workers who were previously employed in local government units have been offered new working conditions within the time limit laid down in the Water Law Act. Payment of salaries to employees is not at risk. It should be noted that the water management department has been underfunded for years and that experienced professionals who perform difficult and necessary tasks have not received increases for years. The reform of water management has among others. ensure good funding for this department of government, which will allow not only for efficient management of water resources but also for better protection against flooding and drought. It should also be pointed out that on Friday 2 February talks began - today too - with employees of the State Water Farm of Poland and trade unions representing these workers in order to clarify and agree on the labour issues. The President of the State Water Farm Polskie sent a letter to all employees of the State Water Farm Polskie, in which he referred to important labour issues. Great cooperation is planned with trade unions representing employees of the National Water Farm of Poland. In order to intensify and complete cooperation, a working group will be set up to work on labour regulations. It should be stressed that as the situation of the State Water Farm improves, it will be possible to increase the wages of water workers. As regards which organizational area is the most difficult, one of the current difficult topics in the field of organization is the provision of communication both inside and outside the State Water Farm of Poland. The National Water Farm Polish Waters operates in an area across the country and carries out cases concerning many water users. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, this is a problem that affects every company or company that is established, and is solved by developing procedures and, where possible, financial purchases of equipment. About the amount...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u50	That will be the Minister's answer to the second question that Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will now ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Everything you said, we heard during the debate on the bill. However, it has been six months since the bill was passed and nothing has been done. And you keep saying, "We're gonna want to, we're gonna go for it..." It's a mess right now. For six months, you couldn't prepare a flexible transition because you had to merge some groups of employees from the powiats, from the voivodships, from the headquarters. Today employees do not know their competence, they send interested people from one level to the other level. The Polish waters are to evaluate environmental decisions. We know how long environmental decisions last. If at the moment we impose a very resistant, difficult and questionable opinion on it by the Polish Waters, it is a drama. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question arises: Why was it lost for six months? Why didn't you prepare it? You're saying it's only at the end of the year that we'll be able to assess how it worked. This should work well right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u52	Thank you, sir. Minister Jerzy Materna. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also complete the answers to those questions that have been submitted in writing. Thus, as far as the number of people employed in Polish Waters is concerned, at present 5436 people are employed in the National Water Farm, of which about 2.5 thousand are employed. from local governments. And that's where the problem arises. Self-governments were supposed to hand over to staff with equipment, often acquired with the help of the European Union. Unfortunately, the transmission of this equipment is simply tragic. And that's why there are problems. The organizational structure of the State Water Farm of Poland was defined on 30 December 2017 in the form of a statute annexed to the Regulation of the Minister for the Environment. The National Water Farm of Poland is the National Water Management Board, 11 regional water management boards, 50 water reservoir management boards and 330 water supervisors. Any change to this structure will require a revision of the Statutes. At present, the period of operation is short enough - one month - that it would be premature to talk about the necessary changes, although there will certainly be a need. In your question there was a deal with the Polish Post. This is not true, the agreement is valid, it is still functioning and there is no subject. As far as certain problems are concerned, of course, there are problems with the new structure, among others. That's what the local authorities did, and they didn't really approach it... By the end of the last day, they did not provide information about the number of employees, equipment, computers, and if computers were supplied, they were old and not suitable for the whole system. We have to beat it. As in 1989, there was a change of voivodships... [[In 1998, the Council ……]] It's just a new system operation. We take action, among others. by means of a tariff regulation that will be issued any moment now. It is simply consulted. And even I have to say that as far as the Polish Waterworks are concerned, the President very much commended us. More than 100 problems have been reported and actually 90% out of them has been solved. And there is no problem with issuing a regulation that will be made available any moment, maybe even this week. So we're doing everything we can to solve our problems. Of course, there are many problems. First of all, it is about communication, as I said, and the creation of an IT system that will be efficient. Because I didn't see it today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We try, it's mostly an investment in Malczyce, which is very important. This month, a very important process of bonding will begin. I'm going to Wroclaw on Friday, I'm meeting - because we also have assumptions to meet with all the regional boards in a short time and discuss all the problems. None of the investments so far are in jeopardy. I met with the performers personally - I asked them to come - we talked about these topics. We're trying to react quickly. Of course, there will always be some dissatisfied people at first, but as far as trade unions are concerned, today we have another stage here. Minister Marek Grabierczyk himself participated in these important talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u54	Thank you, Minister. [[Says here that this road will be bumpy, and it's not gonna work.]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. You no longer have the right to comment. You can come out and comment on this for the gallery if you like. We move to the next question, formulated by MEPs Robert Kropiwnicki and Marcin Kierwiński from the Civic Platform, on the actions taken by the current President of the Council of Ministers and the previous President of the Council of Ministers Beata Szydło after the KPRM received correspondence from Mr Jakub R. concerning the activities that could be carried out by PiS Members and other persons associated with this political environment in the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask Mr Marcin Kierwiński to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, last week two newspapers, actually one portal, one newspaper, published the content of letters by Mr.Jakub R., the main accused in matters of reprivatization of Warsaw, which were supposedly addressed to Prime Minister Szydło, also to Prime Minister Morawiecki. In these letters there are very serious allegations - the charge of using services for political purposes of Law and Justice, for the political purposes of Mr Mariusz Kaminski, expressing his desire to create something like a reprivatization company, to join the illegal activity. We know that this information has been received by Prime Minister Szydło, so we would like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki, also Deputy Prime Minister Szydło, what actions have been taken in this matter, whether these letters have been forwarded to the prosecutor's office or whether the matter has been dealt with by the special forces. The case is very, very important. It concerns big money, but above all it concerns two very important ministers in the PiS government, because it is about the coordinator of special services and his deputy. It's obvious to us that there should be a quick reaction. It is clear to us that this case should be referred to the service, which is not directly subject to Mr Kaminski's coordinator. And we would like to ask whether such measures have been taken and if not why they have not been taken and whether Prime Minister Morawiecki intends to take action on this matter. It's very important, it's very shocking. These allegations are very serious and actually fit into this picture that the PiS does not want to invite Mr. Jakub R. to the meeting of the verification committee. And one more thing. These accusations, even though the person who has the prosecutor's own charges are about people, I am talking about Minister Kaminski and Minister Wąsik, who have already been convicted for exceeding their powers in the administration of the services, so there is also a specific charge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Recruits in this area. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u56	Thank you. And I ask you to respond to the Secretary of State, the head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Of course, letters from the suspect James R. who was imprisoned in the Detective's custody in Wroclaw are well-known to the Prime Minister's offices and law enforcement authorities, Mr R. It should be pointed out that Jakub R. is not a witness in the case, but a person suspected of committing serious crimes to the detriment of the public interest, including the capital city of Warsaw. In these letters, the suspect Jakub R. makes accusations against persons who have led him to be arrested and charged both to him and to members of his family - his mother and father, to whom a precautionary measure has also been applied in the form of a temporary arrest. Jakub R. talks not only about the management of the Central Anti-corruption Office and the ministers supervising the work of this service, but also about prosecutors investigating this case and the President of the Commission on the removal of the legal consequences of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law. Well, under the law, Jakub R. as the defendant can accept any line of defence without any legal consequences, as you know. But, Mr President, it is also obvious that no relationship or relationship will prevent anyone from being held responsible for breaking the law. And don't really embarrass yourselves by asking such questions. Thank you very much. [[The other way, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u58	Thank you. And, please, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u59	Ladies and gentlemen! It is very characteristic of Minister Dworczyk's response - these are our ministers, they are transparent and we will not check them at all for the allegations they have been made. The Minister even used such a phrase, they were discussed. Minister, you're not here to determine if this is a conspiracy, you're here to pass this information on to the relevant services. These relevant services should not be subject to Minister Kaminski, because he is concerned. He was already convicted by the Polish court when it comes to using services for political purposes. So I'm really very surprised to see such carelessness or the desire to actually cover these relationships. It's really serious. It cannot be said that nothing has happened. We expect a very concrete response from Prime Minister Morawiecki, as the allegations - even though they are made by a person who has the charges himself - are very, very serious, actually concern the security of the state, because if the current coordinator of special services wanted to join [[♪ The bell ♪]] according to these allegations to the reprivatization company for extortion of Warsaw real estate, this is a matter of the highest rank and must not be underestimated. Don't underestimate this kind of thing because you're admitting it's disrespectful in this case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I understand that in our political dispute, which is at a very high level in Poland at the moment, there are various things that can be said, but there are limits which should not be exceeded, and it is difficult to resist the impression that the Member is doing so. If you make such suggestions, at least read the material. It is clear even from the very content of these letters, which you speak of and which you know, because the media wrote about them, absolutely... [[I'm just reading the media.]] ...clearly, the D.A.'s office is in possession of all these materials, sir. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm just asking about the service's response.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question put by Andrzej Kryj, Anna April, Andrzej Costowniak and Krystyna Wróblewska from Law and Justice on the current situation on the market for cancer medicines, insulins, asthma medicines, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and anticoagulants. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj - the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u63	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This question, the question about how the current situation on the market for cancer drugs, insulins, asthma and schizophrenia or Parkinson's disease, is that in previous years these medicines were exported from Poland due to a price difference in pharmacies in our country and in Western European countries. This caused difficulties in accessing these medicines. Changes in pharmaceutical law were intended to prevent this, but the information I have recently obtained from patients indicates that some drugs are still lacking in pharmacies. According to the media, the list of special purpose foods and medicines whose availability is at risk is almost 200 items and the value of medicines that could have been exported to the West was estimated at over PLN 2 billion in 2016. Therefore, in view of this, I would like to ask for information on whether this is indeed the case and whether the export of certain medicines from Poland contributes to their absence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have one more question. Do you foresee a revision or perhaps even a revision of the control procedures that have so far proved ineffective? And with what services does the Ministry of Health cooperate in the prosecution of drug export pathologies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u65	And this is what Mrs Anna April said. It's information, among other things. for the Minister. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Marcin Czech, is responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u66	Dear Marshal, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! With regard to the first question concerning exports, we are aware that the measures taken which began to amend the Pharmaceutical Law Act in 2015 do not show a 100% effectiveness. The regulation is based on the fact that, on the basis of data obtained from pharmacies, obtained from producers and patients themselves, a list of drugs at risk of export is drawn up. Such a list is in the possession of the Minister of Health and can be exported subject to approval by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. At the very beginning, such consents or applications for such consents had an impact on the chief pharmaceutical inspector. We noticed that in the last year of this agreement is much less, practically one consent was sent last year and it was withdrawn. The procedure to a lesser extent - because we monitor it on an ongoing basis - leads to a shortage of medicines for patients, and these criteria are very restrictive, while we realise that there is still such a mechanism. And here what we're doing is more in-depth control from the State Pharmaceutical Inspection. On the other hand, exporters show incredible creativity. Therefore, as far as our recent actions are concerned, as yesterday before the High Chamber the project was discussed, was the first reading of the project on monitoring the exports of goods by land and by rail and we started extensive cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. It was a project jointly prepared with the Ministry of Finance. And the National Tax Administration, or organ, can be said to be armed, forceful, which is called to control, among others. illegally exported fuels or cigarettes or alcohol will assist us in the control of the transport of drugs on this export-at-risk list by road. And here we'll have a detailed agreement signed. Moreover, this law regulates these issues in quite detail between the State Pharmaceutical Inspection and the National Tax Administration and regarding cooperation in this area. In short, our actions are based on the fact that at a time when we do not have those consents which are defined in the law, i.e. the export of medicines which do not have such consents will be carried out through the territory of Poland, such transports will be confiscated and evaluated by the state pharmaceutical inspector for the suitability of medicines for use. These medicines will be addressed to patients, i.e. those most in need, if the rules of their transport have not been violated, i.e. you can use these medicines safely. If not, such medicines will be disposed of. We also have the right, quick court-martial procedure for the loss of property. So that we hope that these actions will be preventive. I would like to stress that we do not want to interfere with the legal circulation of medicines within the European Union. These medicines, which do not pose a threat to Polish patients, in full majesty of the law can be transported between countries and can be traded wholesale. I would also like to stress that this list of active substances that are at risk of export is not very long compared to the list of all medicines that are on the market, but we are aware that for some patients, especially in some regions, this may be a problem. Even the day before yesterday, I talked about a friend buying a medicine for the baby only in the fifth time of the pharmacy, the fifth time, but he bought it. Therefore, there are difficulties. That's why I talked about the difficulties, not the crisis or the shortcomings that threaten life. The second question, Mrs... [[In fact, you answered the Minister.]] Good. I understand, sir, that I have also answered your question? Then thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u67	And thank you. I would like an additional question from Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u68	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for your reply, which was very exhausting. I'm sure our patients won't have that kind of trouble anymore. But I wanted to ask you a question about what my patients asked me to do when it comes to preventing hypoglycaemia. A very serious problem for diabetics is the seizure of hypoglycaemia, so called. hypoglycemia. I have a question: Is the Ministry planning a revision of the treatment schedule to include long-acting insulin? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u69	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Member! High Izbo! As regards the treatment of diabetes mellitus and hypoglycaemia, which is indeed a short-term complication after establishing an appropriate dosage regimen, this applies to many patients with diabetes mellitus. This applies mainly to patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes who are being treated with insulin. Let me concentrate on the insulins that most often cause hypoglycaemia. Many insulin preparations are refunded in Poland, including. insulin human, protamine and mixtures of insulin human with insulin protamine. They are available to patients for lump sums, i.e. for PLN 3.20. Fast-acting human insulin analogues are also available for patients: insulin glulisine, aspartum, lisprum for lump-sum payment in the indication diabetes mellitus as well as long-acting human insulin analogues, e. g. insulin glargine or insulin detemir, for payment 30% in limited indications, which are limited to those in which hypoglycaemia occurs. Let me quote: These are type 1 diabetes in adults, adolescents and children from 6 years of age, type 2 diabetes in patients treated with human NPH insulin for at least 6 months and glycoglycated haemoglobin, which indicates a level of diabetes mellitus above 8%, and type 2 diabetes in patients treated with NPH insulin for at least 6 months and with documented recurrent episodes of severe or nocturnal hypoglycaemia, as well as type 1 diabetes in children aged 2 to 6 years, etc. So we also have the possibility of using long-acting insulin analogues in our refund system when patients have episodes of hypoglycaemia, of course, in an individual patient, because these questions concern patients who have applied to the parliamentary office. It really depends on the effectiveness, as it is said ugly, of setting your doctor's treatment for diabetes so that no episodes of hypoglycaemia occur. This depends on age - a little higher values are allowed in elderly people. Proof of this - I have 8 seconds left - that you can control this diabetes also on human insulins that are already being used [[♪ The bell ♪]] without any restrictions, there is a situation in Germany where they are mainly used to treat diabetes, but we also have analogues available. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 37 hours 10 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current issues. Another question was raised by Jerzy Bielecki and Piotr Olszówka from Law and Justice on the progress of investment work on the S19 Via Carpatia. Question for the Minister of Infrastructure. I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Building the S19 road in the international Via Carpatia road is a priority project for the Government of Law and Justice. With this project, the inhabitants of Eastern Poland have many hopes for the development and creation of new jobs. Minister, I would like to ask about the progress of investment work in the whole Polish S19 section, and as a Member of the Lublin Region I would like to ask about sections south of Lublin and north of Lublin. When will the physical works start on the southern part of Lublin and when will the tender for the construction in Lubartow's direction be launched? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you what this road looks like. Is this gonna be a 2+2 or a 2+1? In the future, is it possible to expand this already existing section, which has recently been used in Sokołów towards Rzeszow, where this 2+1 road system already applies? I often use this section of the road and it's not convenient to use this section. Of course, it's better than it was, but it's not how it's supposed to be. Is it possible to expand? Will this planned extension be one more lane? I would like to ask the Minister, by the way, what savings are there in such investments, i.e. not 2+2, but 2+1, the construction of such roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u73	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Chodkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the perspective of Via Carpatia's construction and route. Due to time, I will spare myself political access to this great investment, just to remind you that on 19 May 2016 the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution which amends the Council of Ministers regulation on the construction of highways and expressways in Poland and adds a new section of the expressway extending the expressway S16 to Knyszyn. Thanks to this change, the entire destination corridor Via Carpatia was created as a series of expressways. The cost of implementing this project will be approx. 30 billion PLN. As Members did not want to present all the work that was going on, they only wanted, as I understand it, from paragraph 16, I will present it. It looks like this. Following the changes introduced in May 2016, the Via Carpatia route will run by road. S16 expressway to the S19 road, exactly Knyszyn in the vicinity of Białystok. This road will be about 60 km long. Currently, due to the short period since the decision to implement this route in such a standard, the work in this section is at a very early stage. In the area of Knyszyn the Via Carpatia route enters the expressway S19, which will run until the end of its run in Poland, i.e. to the state border in Barwinek. For the section Knyszyn - Dobrzyniewo Wielkie - Choroszcz with a length of 37 km, preparatory work is carried out, which resulted in obtaining a decision on environmental conditions. The task is provided with funding within the limit of PLN 135 billion. Another section in the Podlasie Voivodeship is Choroszcz - Siemiatycze - Chlebczyn. Preparatory work is also being carried out on this section. Then the S19 route runs on quite short stretch, length approx. 32 km, through the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. The preparatory process has also been initiated for this section. The section is provided with financial resources. Another section is the section from the Lublin Voivodeship border by Międzyrzec Podlaski, Lubartów to Lublin with a total length of more than 90 km. Preparatory work is being carried out here, resulting in a decision on the environmental conditions for the implementation of the project in October 2012. In this section there are also implemented and used bypasses of Międzyrzec Podlaski and Kock and Wola Skromowska. The next section is the 10-kilometer section running together with the S17 between Lublin-Rudnik and Lublin-Sławinek nodes, which has been implemented and is used since 2014. Also the next section of the Via Carpatia route, running on the S19 route from Sławinek junction to Węglin junction, which is also the western bypass of Lublin, a length of almost 10 km, was realized and put into service in December 2016. The next section in the Lublin Voivodeship is a section from Lublin to Kraśnik 42 km long, which in order to improve the investment process was divided into three shorter stages. This section is currently at the stage of the tendering procedure for the selection of the contractor. As expected, the signing of contracts with the performers of individual sections is planned in the near future, i.e. in the second quarter of 2018, and completion is planned for the first half of 2021. The last section in the Lublin Voivodeship is the section Kraśnik - Janowskie Forest 35 km long, which was also divided into three shorter sections. For all these three sections, contracts are concluded and, in accordance with the contracts concluded, their completion is planned for 2021. In this way, the road S19, and thus Via Carpatia, passes to the area of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where the first section is the section of Janowskie Forest - Low length 25 km, which was divided into three stages of implementation. For these sections a tendering procedure shall be carried out for the selection of contractors. The signing of contracts with contractors is scheduled for the second quarter of 2018. The process of selecting the most advantageous offer is currently underway. The work will be completed in the fourth quarter of 2021. The next section of the route S19 is Low - Sokołów Małopolska, which is almost 30 km long. In relation to this task, which, like the previous ones, has been divided into three shorter stages in order to improve the process, there is also a tendering procedure for the selection of the contractor. The signing of contracts with contractors is planned for the second quarter, completion of implementation - for the fourth quarter 2021. The next section, from Sokołów to Stobierna, length 12.5 km, has already been completed and put into service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two sections are used in the Rzeszów area, followed by a section of the expressway S19 Świlcza - Rzeszów South with a length of 6.3 km...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u75	Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: ...which was implemented and put into service in 2017. I understand the next part by the way. Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive response. I would also like to ask if the entire section running through Poland will be implemented in 2+2 technology because, as a colleague mentioned earlier, there is this section before Rzeszow, which is in such a strange technology implemented by your predecessors, 2+1, and this really is a problem for drivers, there have already been several accidents. So that if the Minister wanted to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u77	One more question. Minister, what is the cost savings for such solutions and will the remaining sections, to Lublin and Białystok, be implemented in this technique, using this 2+2 solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u78	When it comes to the section near Rzeszow, near Sokołów, we plan to build a second road, so that it will ultimately be section 2+2, which is two lanes each in each direction. What's the savings? We estimate that this is about 20%, this is the savings for 2+1. But according to my understanding in general, unless I'm wrong, virtually all of Via Carpatia is in the form of 2+2. There may be another episode somewhere in Podlasie, but I don't want to shoot right now, so I'll answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u79	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. This is the question of Andrzej Gawron, Lydia Burzyńska and Richard Bartosik from PiS on the planned transfer of PLN 100 million from the Justice Fund to the units for the purchase of rescue equipment. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Poland is a phenomenon of some kind, because here really the fire movement has developed very much: 16 thousand. Volunteer firefighters, almost 700,000. Firefighters. It was very good that the Ministry thought of spending 100 million on modern rescue equipment for these firefighters from the Justice Fund. But I have this question because I also have firefighters from my district of Lublin who ask me if this emergency equipment will be available to all units of the CSR, for example. Only for those who are in the national fire escape system. Will it be available for small units that are not yet available in this system? Will they also be able to apply for the same funds as the TSOs or municipalities, which will be a proxy for the use of this fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u81	This program is undoubtedly targeted, aimed at increasing the safety of Poles. The handover of equipment to voluntary firefighters is designed to equip, equip people who devote their time and commitment to helping others unselfishly. What criteria, Minister, will they have to meet the voluntary fire department in order to obtain rescue equipment from the Justice Fund? What kind of equipment can these units rely on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u82	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Michał Wosia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Indeed, Poland is a phenomenon, one can say, on a European scale, or perhaps on a global scale, with such a massive fire movement. That is why the government decided to launch a program worth over PLN 100 million for voluntary firefighters all over Poland. It is directed, as you have asked, indeed above all to increase the safety of Poles. This nationwide program, thanks to which modern rescue equipment will go to voluntary firefighters throughout the country, was recently announced in Rabka, Małopolska. In the last 3 months of last year, a pilot program was conducted, which was a great success. For more than PLN 10 million, firefighters saving lives were purchased, i.e. more than 200 defibrillators and 600 rescue kits, bags, among others. PSP bags. Here we have to say, emphasize, as far as this decision is concerned, that this is the biggest funding for voluntary firefighters in history. It is undoubtedly an expression of respect for this formation, respect for the Ministry of Justice, but also the whole government, which shows that it thinks about the safety of Poles, respects, appreciates all those who devote their time and commitment, acting as voluntary firefighters. Security is of course the most important, but it is equally important and worth emphasising that the Justice Fund is not a direct source of funds from taxpayers. The benefits, the funds collected in this fund, are, you can say, directly from people who had some kind of conflict with the law, from people, from criminals, also happens from road criminals. These may not be the most spectacular crimes, but there is indeed also a category of people who are sometimes on the sidewalk with the law. They are obliged to provide, transfer the benefit, pay an appropriate fee to the Fund. Here it is important to stress that this money goes back to the victims of these crimes in order to save the lives and health of the victims, the perpetrators of such crimes, especially since voluntary firefighters are very often the first at the scene of the accident. It is these individuals, these, you can say, heroic people, who sacrifice their free time, health, life to save the lives of others. Hence such a great distinction for the firefighter's movement in Poland. What is the programme for Poland as a whole? Well, as early as last Friday, on February 2, this program was extended, you can say, to all voivodships in Poland. Since last Friday every 2 weeks, the Ministry of Justice, which is directly responsible for the Justice Fund, will announce a new recruitment for each of the following voivodships. In such a sequence, there is also an announcement of recruitment. Then there are 2 weeks to submit an application by the website using a very simplified form. Then it has to be delivered to the Ministry in signed form. The municipalities or cities are obliged to submit these applications on the rights of the county. This is due to some simplification, because in Poland we have almost 16 thousand. units, some say above, others - law enforcement, voluntary firefighters. One practice of good action shows that voluntary firefighters from their territory can report to the office that is closest to them. This office, in this way, gathers demand, you can say, from volunteer firefighters. This demand shall be transmitted in the form of an appropriate request for recruitment to the Ministry of Justice, to the fund manager. The sequence will look whether it already looks like it will be possible to submit proposals for 2 weeks, then it will be a month to decide on this recruitment, to sign contracts and to award grants. The municipality then purchases the appropriate equipment and, together with the Ministry, transfers it to firefighters with the government. It's about what's the feature of this program to get this equipment to everyone. Each volunteer fire department in Poland, not only that which is in the national system, has the right to apply for support under this great program which has been announced. First of all, I will present to you the dates when further recruitments will be announced in the following voivodships: Podkarpackie Voivodeship - 2 February, already announced, Świętokrzyskie - 19 February, dolnośląskie - 5 March, Śląskie - 19 March, Opolskie - 3 April, Łódź - 16 April, Pomorskie - 7 May, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 21 May, Zachodniopomorskie - 11 June, Lubelskie - 25 June, Mazowieckie - 9 July, Warmińsko-Mazurskie - 23 July, Wielkopolskie - 6 August, Podlaskie - 21 August and Lubuskie - 3 August. Taking into account this successful piloting in Małopolska, by the end of this year we will be able to support all units of voluntary firefighters in Poland. It is about 100 million, over 100 million, because it comes out 105.5 million with various estimates, depending on the response of the municipalities, which we encourage. We also encourage volunteer firefighters themselves to report to our offices, as well as the mobs themselves, the mayors, the presidents, to reach for these resources. It is worth emphasising that this is possible thanks to the changes that have been made by the government, the government of good change, in the functioning of the Fund for Helping the Hurted. It is because mandatory road accident benefits have been introduced so that the impact on the fund has been multiplied, so that these funds can be allocated to such large and effective programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u84	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Bartosik - an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether, in a situation where individuals already have the medical security equipment for which the Ministry grants grants, it will be possible for these units to seek other equipment which also saves lives and is not indicated in this grant by the Minister of Justice. One more question. Will the programme continue to be implemented in the coming years? Are there plans? Isn't it going to happen that the mayor will decide which units from his commune are to receive it, that he will be such a final decision-maker, or will there be a certain freedom and possibility for certain units of voluntary guard from the commune? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u87	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to the first question, the Justice Fund is wide enough that each individual who already has such equipment... There are indicated, we suggest two categories, i.e. defibrillators and PSP or R1. There is also a box of other equipment. If a specific voluntary fire department considers that there is a need for other equipment, such a subsidy may also be granted for this other equipment. As for the question of whether the programme will continue, we will see after the effects, in August will come to assess the effectiveness of this programme, its coverage, its response, its interest, its demand. We do not rule out that it will continue, but we are also considering, we are analysing other areas of support from the Justice Fund, because not only voluntary firefighters in Poland require such support. The Justice Fund was created just so that such specific measures could be directed in the direction. As to the concern that the programme will not somehow be misused, so I can simplify these words, by decision-makers, i.e. as part of the decision-making process by the mobs, mayors and presidents, that is the mechanism for expert participation. For each voivodship, an expert shall be appointed to assess these applications, who shall coordinate the needs of voluntary firefighters. This expert in the case of voivodship may select individual experts in powiats or in other organisational units, larger and smaller. The Commission will assess this demand in cooperation with the expert. So we are convinced that this mechanism that facilitates the assessment of these proposals also causes us to avoid any abuse or to God forbid that any voluntary fire department should be harmed in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u88	Thank you very much. We move on to the next, last question today, which was formulated by Mrs Teresa Wargock and Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski from Law and Justice, on the financing and development of environmental networks of self-help homes - to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! In Poland, the number of people with mental illness is increasing. It is estimated that only approx. 2% mentally ill people are employed full-time. They are often poor and lonely. Mentally ill people often do not find adequate social support in their local environment. They are passive, isolated from other people, causing their health to deteriorate. They often go to psychiatric hospitals, while people with intellectual disabilities stay in family homes, benefit from the care of their loved ones, which often prevents their parents from continuing their work. The alternative for parents of adults with intellectual disabilities and mental illness is 24/7 institutions, i.e. social services homes. In our social assistance system there are alternative forms addressed to this group of people, these are environmental self-help homes. In these homes, these people will receive health, caring, social and occupational rehabilitation. I wanted to ask if the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy supports the development of these institutions. We also know from the statements of Minister Rafalska that not all counties have such facilities. I would like to ask the Minister what is the network of these facilities, whether new facilities are being created, whether their number is sufficient and what are the plans of the Ministry in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u90	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy by Mrs Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to the Social Assistance Act, the operation and development of the infrastructure of support centres for people with mental disorders is actually one of the last tasks that the government is carrying out, and this is commissioned by the municipal or district government. The support centers I've told you about are environmental self-help homes or self-help clubs. In order to carry out the tasks imposed on us, local authorities may themselves operate support centres or commission them to operate them to another entity as provided for in Article. 25 of the Social Assistance Act. As at the end of 2016, the number of SDSs was 779 and this was 28 579 seats with 31 345 participants. 550 WDS, or 71% , run by or on behalf of municipalities, 229, or 29% , run by powiats or other entities on their behalf. In Poland, the number of ŚDSs conducted on behalf of local governments by NGOs amounts to 287, of which 166 - on behalf of municipalities and 117 - on behalf of powiats. What's the current funding for the DDS? The current funding of the DDS is planned in the voivodship budgets. The plan for 2017 - we have not yet been implemented - it was over 446 million, while the plan for 2018 is over 527 million, which is an increase of 81 591 thousand compared to last year. What results from such and not other current funding? By the end of 2015 the amount of grants per participant of the ŚDS was very diverse depending on the voivodship: from 900 PLN in the Łódź Voivodeship to, it seems, 1300 PLN in the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie. Since 1 January 2016, following the amendment of the Social Assistance Act, the level of grants per participant in the SDS is the same across the country. Currently, this year it may not be less than 230% In the end, this is to be 250% of the income criterion. At the same time, the Act laid down a transitional period. Thus, in 2016 and 2017 the SDSs were financed at 200% Income criterion, i.e. PLN 1268 per participant. In 2018 this is not less than 230% 1458.20 zł. In addition, the Law of 22 June 2017 amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the 5. This provision provides that the amount of grants per participant in the SDS may be increased to 30%. Here we're talking about people with multiple disabilities or a whole spectrum of autism. Last year, for the first time, over PLN 9 million was allocated for this purpose, which allowed for an increase in grants for 4286 participants. The number of participants eligible for an increased grant in 2018 increased by 1266 and is 5552. We're talking about a law, a program, for life. The funds for the first half of the year exceed the amount of PLN 12 million. The resources for the development of the SDS network are planned in the special reserve of the State budget for social assistance, which remains the responsibility of the Minister responsible for social security. About PLN 30 million is allocated annually for this purpose. There are additional measures under the Life Programme. In 2016, we launched ca. 450 new sites, while in 2017 we allocated PLN 30 million to the development of the network. The plan was to create 743 new places in the DS, of which 442 were in 17 new homes and one branch of the existing house, and two self-help clubs were created for 40 seats. Some local governments have not yet completed this task, and there are still opening houses - these will be two houses for 60 seats. Within the framework of the Life Programme, the transferred grant amounted to over PLN 4 million, but the local authorities did not fully fulfil this task, they spent PLN 1 million 248. This allowed the launch of an additional 71 new places, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which 20 places in one new DS. For this year, however, we are planning funds of about PLN 40 million: 30 million from the reserve and about PLN 12 Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u93	Thank you, Minister, for a very comprehensive response, but I would like to ask you one more question. Are these funds allocated by the Ministry to support the expansion of the environmental networks of self-help homes, according to the State, adequate to the needs of local authorities, whether the local authorities submit proposals and because of the lower amounts of funding they are waiting in line for the following year? Are we responding to the needs reported by local governments here? If the local government asks for investment funding, what percentage can it receive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u94	Thank you. Please, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we came to the resort, we made this map of needs on a national scale. We have selected individual districts, which are such white spots on the map of Poland, where there is no environmental home of self-help. At the end of 2017 there were 39 counties in the country, where there is no DS. We try to gradually fill these white spots on the map. The deadline for the legislator is 2025, and then we should achieve full standardisation. And we're trying to go in that direction. Our priority is, on the one hand, the DS where there are white spots, on the other hand, the program "For Life." Are we responding to the needs of local governments? Probably not quite, because these needs are big and growing all the time. But also often local authorities report the need to build environmental self-help homes without diagnosis, without making a map of needs in their own environment, because it is a task fully funded by government funds - both investment and then maintaining residents in environmental self-help homes. Nevertheless, where there are white spots, we try to meet the demand from local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u96	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the activities of the Ministry of National Education for the reconstruction and development of vocational training, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. And I now ask that the representative of the applicants of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we talk about education reform, we often forget about its important element, i.e. the changes that are already taking place in vocational education. They are somewhat in the shadow of the organizational changes that have already taken place and which have aroused the greatest social emotions. But we must not forget what needs to be done and what is already happening in vocational education, because this has a clear bearing on the economic situation of our country. We are at a time when the economy is growing dynamically. The labour market is also changing clearly. We have the lowest unemployment in 26 years, which starts to make in some areas and parts of Poland the market becomes more an employee than an employer. Hence, many entrepreneurs start complaining about the lack of professionals, skilled lower-level workforce, not managers, directors, because there, at least for now, there are no major problems. Vocational education plays an important role throughout Europe, is a natural way of filling staff shortages, especially at lower levels. The most common professional education in Europe is in cooperation with business. German-speaking countries are a very good example here. The most common example is Germany, where this cooperation is probably the strongest. This not only ensures greater participation of professionals in the market, but also prevents unemployment among young people. Unfortunately, the situation is different in Poland. It can even be said that vocational education has been in a serious crisis for many years. By previous teams - I am talking not only about our direct predecessors, but also earlier ones - it was treated a little bit in step. There have been attempts to change the situation of vocational education, but they have not yet produced the expected results. The measure of what happens in vocational education, let there be statistics about the unemployment of graduates of vocational education. As far as primary schools are concerned, they reach up to 40%. At the same time, we are talking about the lack of professionals in the market. Unfortunately, the same applies also to technicians where this level reaches 30%. Thus, as a result of business proposals - from what I know, it appears that they are very often reaching the ministry, but not only there, including us, Members - there is a call for vocational education to adapt to the needs of the labour market, so that schools educate in those areas that are needed, where demand arises. At the same time, we must remember that these schools have been very unpopular for many years. Many Poles were told that the only chance to get a good job is to graduate from high school, to graduate from general education, not to get an education in vocational schools. That's, among other things. has an impact on the fact that these schools, although sometimes offer attractive directions, have problems with the recruitment of young people. Some of the directions do not receive recruitment. Self-governments due to e.g. for vocational training costs They are more likely to start new high schools than vocational schools, and in some cases these vocational schools are even eliminated. This is why clear action by the Ministry is needed to change this situation. We know that this part of education plays an important role in the aims of the reforms presented by the rule of law and justice. In this direction, measures are already being taken to change the situation and adapt vocational schools to the needs of the labour market. We know that the Ministry clearly points out not only to shift the burden of ministerial and official action, but also to a decisive increase in the participation of employers in education, especially in practical terms. The first attempts are already being made towards this direction, hence the question at which stage it is at. How do you want to encourage employers to step up vocational training? However, cooperation with entrepreneurs alone is probably not enough, and cooperation with the Ministry of Higher Education, as well as with local authorities, and some way of influencing parents is also needed. Because only joint action can lead to high-level vocational education, adapting to market needs [[♪ The bell ♪]] work and prepare professionals so needed in our country today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u98	Thank you. And please respond to the Secretary of State from the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u99	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today we are going to talk about vocational training, but in this sense, we are going to talk about preparing staff for a modern economy. Indeed, we are all facing great challenges, because, as the applicant has already pointed out, we have the lowest unemployment in over a quarter of a century, and that is true. There is a huge shortage of staff in the Polish economy. There are industrial industries such as: the energy industry or the automotive industry, where we have a huge competence gap, as well as a generation gap, even two generations. This is a moment where you can't wait any longer and you have to take very real action. On the other hand, we need to look at the situation of graduates of today's technicians and vocational schools. I have in front of me the material - the economic activity of the Polish population - that is the material of the Central Statistical Office - and the data are shocking. We calculated the average of 2016 and 2012. This is the result: Ladies and gentlemen, at the lowest of a quarter of a century of unemployment, with such a lack of staff in the labour market, we have, in terms of vocational and post-secondary secondary schools, more than 30% unemployment among graduates, and more than 40% unemployment among graduates of vocational schools. We are talking about 2015, about 2016. I would like to say that in 2012 it was about 50% When it comes to vocational schools. What does that mean? This means that vocational training, whether called professional or technical, does not work. I also want to be very clear that this is a signal for all of us. The state plus structural measures is over PLN 9 billion annually transferred to this system. There is virtually no unemployment, money of more than 9 billion plus structural money goes into the system from the state budget, and what happens? The schools are releasing unemployed people into the market. This shows that they do not fully - or in these percentages - respond to labour market demand and have proved to be ineffective so far. I don't want to blame anyone. They are inefficient and they will be ineffective if schools work themselves, employers themselves, and local governments will work separately. We discussed this on several occasions in the committee. What has happened recently is, first of all, that we have made an effort - even though there is no economic self-government in Poland, as it is in Germany, where employers are very active, as it is in other European countries when it comes to vocational training - to take serious talks with employers and, above all, to change the way we all think. There is no ministry of education in the world that would create effective vocational training itself. Vocational training must be involved and other economic resorts have joined, and employers are now becoming more effective, large companies are starting to join, and they are starting to discuss, and not just as far as entering schools is concerned. We believe that there will be no effective vocational training if employers do not participate from the outset in the creation of this vocational training, in determining the need for professions, if they do not tell us what professions are needed if they do not specify, if there is already a profession, what exactly, but precisely, should be taught in this profession and how it is to be recorded so that it can be verified reliably. The point is, if a graduate passes a professional exam, he gets a paperwork, then with this paperwork, so to speak, the employer will count. Because what do our employers point out to us? First of all, the fact that the professions are very often not in line with the labour market is unclear, illegible, and that the exam is not reliable for the employer is not taken into account. Therefore, recently, since October, we have held 12, I think it is very important, industry meetings. We've met with over 0.5,000. The employers we talked to talked to, I talked to the department representatives - he just changed his name to the Department of Strategy, Qualifications and Vocational Training - the employees of the Centre for Education Development, the Central Examination Commission. We talked to our employers and gathered attention in the seminar, workshops on all these topics, which means we talked about how to teach, what to teach and how to test, so that it would be useful for employers. But we also talk about how we need to change the way we think - the way we think about what and how vocational training is to be created and how it is to be implemented. Vocational training without an employer at school or without an employer's student, i.e. a student in real working conditions, will be ineffective education, as you can see. I know that there was a reform of vocational training in 2012, but unfortunately there were no employers in the whole reform at that time, for example in the development of a programme basis, or in a minor way. Today we face a great challenge: we work so that in 2019 new software bases will be prepared not only - I think it is important - discussed with employers, but also, most importantly, they will be clear, clear and precise. Of course, I dream of having a separate regulation for every profession, starting with what it's called, and ending with how you test it, but we're already simplifying the way you test it, we're not dividing it, we're not cutting it to any degree, because first of all, we want to show you very clearly on the basis of what we're going to need for professional exams. What I'm saying is that there's actually no week, there's no day, except for industry seminars, so we don't meet employers. I'm happy to hear from him. At the moment you can really see that employers go into schools, sign agreements with schools, with powiats in a much more active way. Last week, an agreement was signed with KGHM, Two weeks ago - with PGE, there are further agreements signed. There are signed agreements that large employers enter schools and co-finance vocational training, as they co-finance places of practical apprenticeships, traineeships, scholarships and teachers. These are very serious agreements that can help to overcome the collapse of vocational training. What's important is to convince employers - because it's also a question of how they invest in technology, and there's not going to be modern technologies without man - that investing in man is even more important than investing in development, jobs, technologies, devices or machines. Man is more important and we must act together in this matter. It is important that we have several stages of vocational training collapse: after 1989, the fall of factory schools, in general the fall of many enterprises, and later, since 1999, it has been the thinking that for adult life, only general education and higher education schools can prepare for success. Turns out we don't have any students here. Or the rank of vocational schools has fallen at all. Because in general, if we look at potential, we have 58%. the youth population in vocational schools. That's not enough. Only they have so far failed to prepare for the profession. This is our common challenge in local markets to talk to employers and convince them that they cannot stand side by side and wait for someone to prepare them an employee. Together, let us prepare young people for a modern economy. We have also created a Board of Directors of Professional Schools, which brings together those directors who are already successful in working with employers, and we want this board to opinion ours as ministries of action, but also popularize these good practices among employers and schools. Before us is such a moment of summary after the trade seminars, which will take place at the professional congress of powiats in April, where we will present prepared after the trade seminars [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes in the law that will help effectively educate, prepare for the profession and help this collapse, which is at the moment, simply eliminate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see. I'm closing the list of speakers. The speaking time is 2 minutes. Since 37 people have volunteered, I would ask you not to exceed this time limit so that we can fit in the time allocated to this point. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u101	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! For many years now, we have seen a collapse in vocational education. The current unemployment is, of course, due to the lack of appropriate professionals in the labour market. First of all, we don't have well-prepared people to take up competitions like this. tailor, shoemaker or carpenter. As the Minister said earlier, many graduates come out in different directions, both from secondary and vocational schools, but these courses are not suitable for employing these people in a given market. I would like to thank the Minister and the entire team for continuing to repair this sick system. Minister, will the proposed changes in the vocational education system increase the effectiveness of vocational training and how will this translate into more jobs and better preparation of graduates for certain professions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u102	Thank you, Member. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When it comes from this place, you have to be aware that people listen to it - on TV, on the Internet and throughout Poland. And you mustn't miss the truth, especially since the Minister often calls for it. I would therefore like to inform you that you missed the truth at least at this point where you were talking about preparing new programming bases. They entered into force on 1 September 2012. The writing of these programme bases took place in the presence and with the participation of employers, because the money to write these foundations came from European funds, and the requirement of the European Union was that employers should give an opinion on these grounds. So you're missing the truth when you say today that you're just now inviting employers to cooperate. [[Applause]] That's one thing. Secondly, I want to tell you that I can't understand at all what you're talking about here about some kind of collapse and this drama. So where have you been these two years? I would like to say that on 23 January 2015, the then Ministry of Education signed an agreement between the Ministries of Education, Labour and Social Policy, the Economy and the Treasure, which was concluded to create modern, just cooperating with the market, employers, vocational education. The Minister of Wargock sitting here, then the Minister, in 2016 - now I specify - in January 2016 she participated in the conference or patronized the conference, during which employers shared good practices, talked about how they create vocational education, how they create places of practice and how they then implement it, sharing these good practices among themselves. So we left you all this as a gift. It was January 2016. In the marshal offices we left 920 million euros, which are spent all the time so that the places of practice and vocational education can be well equipped, can function well, etc. If you're still talking about a collapse, I want to ask you, where have you been these two years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What have you been doing over the last two years besides copying-paste from the previous software base? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u104	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The subject of vocational education is very important, significant and crucial. We talk about this as parliamentarians, but very well, and much, we know about it as those who come from local governments and are connected, have been associated with local governments. I would like to ask the Minister - aside from the comments of the type: what has been, what is, we take into account what will be, undoubtedly, in order for such a programme to be successful, we need cooperation - as the Minister sees a role in the regions of education curatoria? What will the role of the managing authority, i.e. local governments, above all the district government, be as expected by the Minister? What steps must be taken to support this agreement with employers, which, let us assume, will be reached in individual regions or powiats, which means and from which these measures must be supported, so that the conditions for modern and effective vocational education can be created, which will solve problems, i.e. will provide training for young people for employers' needs, and will provide education for young people's work? And what would the Minister like to do and improve in the regions so that more funding from the programmes we call EU programmes - PO WER and regional operational programmes - could be practically involved in solving these problems? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u106	Thank you, sir. And Mr Richard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since we are discussing vocational education, I would like to discuss vocational education very widely at the professional level, technical secondary level, but also technical higher level, because whatever it is, in these particular professional groups in the broadly understood economy, we lack people to work educated and prepared. The Minister spoke about the fact that you are working on updating training in particular professions, taking into account the deficit that exists. I would like to ask if you also take into account technological progress, which causes that very often new professions appear in vocational education. I have had the opportunity in the past to talk to entrepreneurs who have taken such a hard time and claimed that it is a road through torment to bring a new profession into the category of professions. Do you also take into account the specificities of the regions? Because the region is not equal, these needs are different. If I could get an answer, I'd be very grateful. In your speech, you also referred to the German experience. I am very happy because I have had contacts for many years and can observe how vocational education works in Germany. There, in fact, the participation of entrepreneurs is very strong, not only in the field of practice and in the field of, I would say, class patrons, but also in the field of individual contracts, which are concluded with individual students who in this way train dually: an adequate number of hours of theoretical education, as well as practice, but this is also an introduction to the fact that these are potential employees who work with such entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u108	Mr President, I would like you to leave now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u109	International practices. I am very interested in this because there are a lot of such initiatives on the Polish-German border. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The title of the current information rightly states: on the activities of the Ministry of National Education for the reconstruction and development of vocational training. Indeed, vocational education needs to be rebuilt, and this is an overarching task. This reconstruction is probably about infrastructure, which is insufficient, increasing the interest of this type of education, promoting various vocational training courses among students. Dear Minister, What action has already been taken in the Ministry and what will be taken towards the development of vocational education? Is the cooperation of schools with entrepreneurs, work offices sufficient? Is there sufficient monitoring of vocational training courses in relation to local needs? And using the time, I would like to ask the Member for a little ad vocem. 8 years Depreciating vocational education in your governments... [[What are you saying?]] I wasn't interrupting. ... 8 years Depreciating higher education in your governments. [[Then don't lie to me.]] As they say, it's 16 years of reconstruction. It's only been two years. We'll make it through the next term. And in this one, and in the next. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Destroy what we've done good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u112	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard from the Minister of the obvious - the Minister repeats empty words, slogans, slogans - but we have not learned anything, we have not learned what the Ministry intends to do or what it does, so that vocational education, for example. it didn't produce unemployed people. Well, Minister, a new programming basis was established in 2012. You did it by copying-paste. You're saying you're starting to interact with your employers. Well, I will read your opinion from the Polish Radio message, and you will tell me who said this: the educational cluster was established on Monday as part of the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone by 46 entities. Among them are companies, district old towns and vocational schools mostly from Lower Silesia. Its main aim is to match education to the needs of entrepreneurs. It is not Minister Zalewska, it is not Prime Minister Morawiecki, but Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska has started this investment. [[Applause]] What have you done since then? You're going the way we've set up, but as if there's no step forward, you're not showing new solutions, you're not showing what vocational schools and employers should do even beyond what we've come up with. Minister, if this is the case with the Ministry of National Education, if this is the case with employers, then the percentages you gave will, unfortunately, get worse, because you have established professional schools that have slowed down [[♪ The bell ♪]] expenditure of EU funds. And that's your success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u114	Thank you, too. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Well, I'm gonna say that I'm terrified to hear here that it's gonna take 16 years to fulfill those promises. This is really disturbing. The question is, who's gonna make it. But what's important is that you're saying that, after all, man is the most important thing, just like we used to assume in bias. Always the projects we report are meant to serve the best of people. But my question, Minister. The Polish People's Party reported a project for young people. This is a project that had already been implemented, in the time when Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish was Minister of Labour and Social Policy. And this program worked. He allows financial support for entrepreneurs who for 2 years will hire a full-time young employee up to the age of 30. It really worked well, because first of all a young man could gain experience, and that's what's most important, because it's said: work experience in the company, etc. And this kind of employment, because it's already a job, it's a full-time job that gives you the opportunity to continue working in this company, or at least get practical knowledge, because it's not six months, it's not an internship, it's not a concern about whether I'm going to work later or not, because 2 years is already a certain period. And my question is, will the Ministry, or will the government support this program? His price, so to speak, is PLN 3 billion from the Labour Fund. The labour funds are because entrepreneurs pay for it. And that would be real help for entrepreneurs who, with the money they're paying to the Labour Fund, could benefit from support for the employment of a young man. And this is a mutual advantage for the entrepreneur and for the young man. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will repeat the question again: Will you support this programme already tested? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u116	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When you speak from this place, you stick to the facts. Yes, you signed an agreement with individual ministries, but it was in 2015, i.e. after 8 years of government. Former Minister... [[Since 2012, there has been a new programming base.]] ...talking about what needs to be done so that vocational education doesn't produce unemployed people. Yes, we agree on what needs to be done, because the data of the CSO that Minister Machalek quoted is clear. Industry schools and technology must be schools that will constantly adapt to the needs of changing economies and labour market needs. In order to achieve this, it is necessary, in addition to cooperation with employers, to involve local self-government units. The Ministry of Education has changed the financing of vocational training this year to a minimum that has varied. The Resort introduced a variety of educational subsidies provided to the counties depending on the cost of teaching the profession. And my question to the Minister: Will there also be differentiation in the financing of vocational training in 2019 and on the basis of which tools this differentiation will be determined? Will the usefulness and demand of the profession in the region be taken into account? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is impossible to describe success in the field of development of vocational education only in words. There's some action to be taken. Such actions were taken by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, when 920 million PLN were transferred to 16 marshal offices for precisely this purpose. This is what we did in 2014 and 2015 when the Year of Vocational Education and conferences were held, meetings concerning vocational education. Let me remind you that EUR 90 million has been allocated for this purpose, which is a huge amount of money. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how you want to convince young people to take this kind of education because you haven't put any resources into it. I recently called local government officials asking if any measures were given because you were boasting about such successes in this area, you gave them to the local authorities. Well, it turns out not, Minister, none. On the other hand, local governments have, as usual, stood at the level of the task and the state has done so. For example, local government officials from Płock have allocated scholarships to all students who would like to study in vocational education. So the government gave the funds, the government helped you in these activities. And you say that local governments don't cooperate with you. Self-governments are working with you as much as possible. I would like to say that I hope, Minister, that you have a plan that does not consist only in you criticizing the previous governments, but that you will take some real action. Because so far, as Minister Shumilas and Mrs Augustine have said, these are actions. just copy-paste and, of course, criticize the predecessors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u120	Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister, you have a tendency, like the entire government of the PiS, to change the name of the existing solutions that are supposed to create appearances of reform. So we have a professional school, not a professional school. What's new besides that? The reform you are talking about today has been taking place since 2008. I would like to remind you that this was the time when an advisory and advisory team was established at the Minister of Education, who was engaged in the preparation of a project of organisational and promotional objectives for vocational education. 2012 - new programming bases. Year 2014 - Year of Vocational Education. And that was Platform and PSL reform. So renaming isn't everything. But local governments are doing well with this reform. Where, then, are we talking about news? A team of professionals, professional exams, dual education. It's already been introduced. I would like to point out that in my town of Radom already in spring 2015 work on dual education has begun, to the extent that you are talking about today. 17 economic operators in the metal industry, together with the local government, are building vocational training. CKU, CKP was established in 2014. I am very pleased that you are continuing with the ideas introduced by the PO-PSL government. You changed your name. And I think it's important to congratulate that from vocational school to professional school, not for example. School+. The whole pseudo-reform thing is about this change. And we expect further development of vocational education, because there are still no professionals in the market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u122	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The fact that you can't develop a good professional without the cooperation of a school with a company is obvious. I am glad that we are still talking about the need for this cooperation and we are still looking for solutions that will raise this level of education. Among the entrepreneurs we can distinguish between these big companies, very rich companies, companies that have a lot of money that can really spend a lot of money on organizing vocational training at home, but there are also those small and medium-sized enterprises that often make very complex products of high value, requiring very good preparation of employees. I would like to ask: What kind of help can be provided by companies that would like to cooperate in the practical training of workers for their needs? Often a student in such an establishment is trained practically using very expensive equipment and using very expensive materials for production. A mistake during such a study can lead to a situation where materials worth several hundred thousand zlotys are destroyed, and this is a huge problem for the company. I would like to ask: What can such companies hope for, any support? On the other hand, with regard to the speeches of my colleagues in the opposition - I have the impression that the state has such a tendency that any serious discussion leads to a reckless attack on the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u125	It's sad that you haven't recovered from this trauma for two years after you lost your power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u126	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! There's a basic rule: don't spoil what's good. However, it can always be better. 2012 is the introduction of changes in vocational education. 2014 is the Year of Vocational Education. During that time, I worked in vocational education in Warmia and Mazury. It's a poor region, there's no big industry, and there's not that much possibility of signing contracts, but we've always worked and worked with employers. Four beautiful vocational education centers were built, where teacher training took place abroad because there was cooperation with schools in Italy and France. It really started to work, and that's why I want it to continue. I hope so. On the other hand, Minister Zalewska said: We are unable to predict what competitions will be needed in five years. The business school must be a flexible school that will adapt the curriculum to the changing economy. So I'm asking. : Are you able to develop a mechanism that will develop a forecast and provide school with any information about the need for competitions? What about the teachers of the profession in schools that practice their apprenticeships? After all, it is an integral part of the process of education and education of pupils in professional schools. Will the education system of these teachers change? Will it be an obligation for teachers to train entrepreneurs so that they can learn about the latest technologies and innovative solutions in production or services? Is it for those entrepreneurs who cooperate that there is provision for related reliefs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the teacher's improvement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u129	Yet or... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u130	... Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The problem of vocational education is an eternal problem and I will say that it is our common problem. The attempt to treat the situation of vocational education as something that is caused by the wrong solution of our government is irresponsible. Let me put it briefly: yes, our government has inherited a problem that needs to be solved, and it doesn't necessarily have to be argued here to some extent, because money spent that doesn't have any effect is not a success. On the other hand, this reform proposed by us is an opportunity, an opportunity to change the approach to vocational education. Close cooperation, cooperation and cooperation between entrepreneurs, cooperation and cooperation between teachers, local governments, different pedagogical supervision, that is the reason why we can say: there will be success, provided that there is this cooperation. Let me give you an example of a good change, oh, that's how I'm gonna define it. In Dębica in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Dębicki Industrial Park began cooperation with professional schools. They're signing some contracts there, predicting what's gonna be two in three in five years. A vocational school is to educate in this direction. They're actively involved. I am very pleased that local government officials are working in this area, I am glad that there is support for the education curator, Mr. Fundakowski's curator, and I am glad that the Minister of Education also provides some guidance. I think, depending on that... The local market is different because it is different in Silesia, it is different in Podkarpacie. If there is no such cooperation, it is difficult to say that the Minister will present us with a solution and that there is the same demand everywhere. No. Maybe this is how we approach the problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Joint action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Vocational education, though forgotten, but it will create the development of our countries, Poland. Does the government see that vocational education, which has been passed on to powiats, is not going in the right direction, because the districts, having a burden: hospitals, will always choose hospital, save people, not schools? There are good examples, good practices, e.g. in Mazowsze. We are building here with Marshal Struzik a wood school, which, with the founding body of the county, would have no chance, and the betting and interest is very large. Besides, there are no carpenters at the county labour offices, there are no woodworking people, there are no other professionals from other fields. Here we have succeeded and thanks to God the Marshals still have money, they have an influence on it, but it also depends on good cooperation between local governments, also cooperation between the county and the voivodship. This is where we're going, and that's something to be praised for. But if the government doesn't really see our last chance, we're about to have no professionals who can educate the next generation. Enough, we're already being brought in from India by professionals who will deny ours. If we don't reform vocational education... [[We're reforming right now.]] In a moment, we won't even have any of our famous plumber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u134	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u135	Dear Marshal, Minister! European funding from the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund are one of the important sources of funding for vocational training. These measures are effectively financed at national level. In the financial perspective for 2014 and 2020 the vast majority of the money, because about PLN 4 billion, falls on projects implemented under regional operational programmes by local governments. Contrary to what Members of the Civic Platform say today, unfortunately, they are not used effectively. Unfortunately, there are voivodships that do not use EU money at all to support the financing of vocational training. Minister! Does the Ministry of Education monitor the spending of funds on vocational training by the Marshals of voivodships? What is the situation of absorption of funds for soft and infrastructure projects in individual voivodships? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u136	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has accelerated its work on promotion of industrial education, because it is a subject of some time foretold, legally established, but unfortunately a little sleepy. This could therefore be an image failure for the government, because so far, vocational education has changed only by name. The education system and textbooks are still the same. When's that gonna change? The Ministry of National Education dreams that private business will support industries. The example is to be given by state-owned companies, of course. There are already several agreements, e.g. with the Polish Energy Group, about the creation of patron classes. What about private entities? There have already been talks in Katowice, Poznań. Minister, tell me, what is the outcome of these conversations? What have you achieved? What do you propose to private companies for supporting industry schools? What instruments does the government want to introduce so that private business wants to support industry education measurablely? I just wanted to ask you one more question. The Ministry of National Education wants the transfer of money to students of professions to be dependent on the so-called. education efficiency. What is behind this concept? How will efficiency be measured? It's been two years, and your efficiency is as you can see. You can't see the effects of your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Glasses!]] I don't need it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u138	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After a period of professional education collapse, because that's what it needs to be called, and its depreciation towards general education, we notice in recent years that there are no workers, craftsmen, simply professionals in the market. The current vocational training system has resulted in the highest percentage of unemployment among graduates of these schools. [[You're wrong.]] Despite the fact that the shadow of the Minister of National Education, today, has ensured the enormous contribution of their governments to vocational training, she has also called for the truth to be told... [[These are facts.]] So you didn't hear or want to hear what statistics Minister Machalek was talking about. Activity statistics, not the last 2 years, but education statistics since 2012. [[It was 50%, it's 20%.]] ...what percentage of unemployment is in the labour market. The Ministry of National Education has set itself the objective of linking vocational training with the market and economy, and this is a good and very right way. My question: What actions are carried out by the Ministry to reach dual vocational training and restore proper prestige for graduates of vocational schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. [[Correction, one sentence.]] But you were mentioned? [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[One sentence of correction.]] Name? I didn't hear it. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[One sentence. Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]] Okay, one sentence. One sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u141	One sentence. Here we go. Well, the Minister said that in 2012 the unemployment rate among vocational school graduates was 50% And today you say it's over 20%. Is it a regression, or is it a collapse? Think about it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u142	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, the club... Excuse me, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Continuing with Mrs Augustine's statement, I will say: Minister, please answer this question. If today unemployment among these graduates is significantly lower, because it's 30%, it can't be due to the PiS, because you haven't let a half of the students out of the industry school yet. This is due to the 2012 programming base. Therefore, thank the Civic Platform that there is lower unemployment [[Applause]] among graduates of vocational schools. [[Logic.]] That's right, that's enough logic. [[Voice from the hall: Poles thanked you.]] You guys haven't even changed the basics. Unfortunately, you've changed the names of the qualifications, you've combined two into one, and that's where the problem started for the vocational school students today. What is the most important thing in the vocational training system? Destiny - the fact that a student, a child, or an adult can gain more and more qualifications in a fluent way. And what did PiS do? First of all, training in all professions established for the first-grade professional school may continue in the second-grade professional school. Tell me why. What's a kid gonna do when he goes to that school and he doesn't know... and he dreams of being a technician. Let's take this situation: I have the qualifications of an E7 electrician and I dream of becoming a technician. I hope the Minister knows what I'm talking about. I won't be able to do this by the end of 2019. So, what do I have in 2020 to get this tech qualification, go to industrial school again? What will happen to the qualification courses which, according to the old base, end in 2019? And if someone starts in September, then what? And the most important thing. Professional school, like everyone else, is a teacher, and you don't raise pay. Who with higher vocational education and pedagogical qualifications [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's going to teach for a minimum wage? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The education reform introduced last year assumes the creation of industrial schools in cooperation with business, with employers. In my constituency the largest employer is KGHM Polska Miedź SA. Hence my question: Did the KGHM, the Ministry of National Education, and the municipalities in the copper district take what actions to create schools or industry classes that educate future, well-prepared employees for this large employer? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u146	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Zalewska sent a letter to entrepreneurs about a month ago asking for cooperation with vocational schools. I don't think the Minister noticed that the cooperation between entrepreneurs and professional schools and technicians has been going on for years, but of course it's never so that it can't be better. We are very happy that our program is being continued, because you are not introducing anything new, even the textbooks are the same. It's new. It's just a name. Instead of vocational school, there will be professional schools. That's your change. An example, a good example. In 2015, Flextronics factory from Tczew was awarded by the Ministry of Economy for its commitment to the development of vocational education. It has been cooperating with schools in the region for several years, substantively and financially. Flextronics coaches conduct training with the latest technologies and practices in schools. In addition, the company grants scholarships to students of the technical school in Owid. 880 students have already been trained, for whom employment was found in this factory. Ladies and gentlemen! We have allocated EUR 920 million, leaving it for the regions for vocational education. I wanted to ask you from the PiS how much you used. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u148	Thank you very much. Our meetings are attended by the rural hostels from the municipality of Opoczno. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Ministry of National Education, in cooperation with the Centre for Education Development, the Central Examination Commission and the Institute for Educational Research, organized 12 sectoral conferences on changes in the vocational education system. I would like to thank the Minister very warmly from this point on for the enormous commitment of the Ministry. Seminars were held with the participation of employers, school heads, teachers, representatives of other ministries responsible for the field. [[Conference time's over. We need action.]] The main problems of the various sectors were discussed and how to verify the student's knowledge and skills, as well as the basis of the vocational training programme was consulted. When and where will we learn the conclusions and solutions developed during these trade seminars? Will they be reflected in legislation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u151	Minister! High Izbo! In order to be sensitive, I must say that speaking of vocational education, you have focused in the absence of your own proposals on general, too general comments. So generating new solutions is before MEN. As a recommendation, I refer to the use of the European Erasmus programme. There is such an excellent example: the Farm School Complex in Namysłów. For years, the young people of Namysłowski, who have been studying every profession taught there, have been eight of them, each year in a group of about 100 people going abroad for a month for apprenticeships abroad. In practice, every student of this school will benefit from this opportunity during training. Excellent example, I recommend that you spread it also in order to support these schools in the use of this possibility. I also ask very specific questions, I put them in writing, because we are dealing with grossly low teacher salaries, which will result in a lack of professionals to learn the profession. Who, what graduate will take up a job after high school e.g. in IT competitions, if you offer him a minimum wage, and the labour market for educated technicians gives you two or three times more? We have a problem with the lack of an incentive from the state for entrepreneurs to take in apprentices. There is a gap between the requirement under the Regulation, i.e. providing students with real work practices, and financing such activities when they need to send young people to a neighbouring centre or even to a voivodship city. There are no textbooks for less popular professions, no systematic support for professional teachers, and there are still a few other problems that I pass on to the protocol, asking for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The reform of vocational education is a priority of the Government of Law and Justice, which will contribute to improving the situation of workers and employers in the labour market. A very well-prepared young student is a very well-prepared young worker. As an example of taking the case into my own hands, I wanted to give training to aviation mechanics, which lasts longer than training doctors. Students of the Mechanical School Complex in Rzeszów and the Technical School Complex in Mielec started paid practices in a private company Linetech, which will count on the experience needed to obtain the license of an aircraft mechanic. Air mechanic is a profession wanted in markets all over the world. This project is co-financed by EU funds. Minister! I wanted to ask you this question: Are EU funds used in other voivodships like in Podkarpackie voivodship and is close cooperation between vocational education and employers the right direction for the development of vocational education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u154	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Practical education is very important throughout the sector education system. And here we rightly emphasise the role of cooperation with industry, with crafts, and we talk about this very much. And I would like to ask: What role does the Minister see for practical training centres to play? Practical education centres in Poland do not function in all powiats, there are just over 150 of them. In many counties there are no such institutions, and it seems that with practical training, their role is invaluable, because there are many such professions... It's hard to imagine that crafts or industry can, for example, be able to. create patronage classes whether work practices in these sectors can be carried out at all. However, the best way to do so is through training at these training centres, which are very often, as for example. in my district, in the district of Gniezno, in Gniezno, co-financed. They have a very good base and it would be worth spreading these patterns also in powiats. Of course, I know that the Ministry cannot impose on local government units, e.g. the obligation to set up practical training centres, but it may be useful to use other forms of encouragement in order to make this model of practical training more widespread and more widely used. And one more question about special economic zones. How can special economic zones be used for practical training in the often very necessary professions that companies could provide in these areas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u156	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to point out that 2014. - i.e. it was so under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL - it was the Year of the Professional School. We are now also raising the issue of the allocation of large funds to vocational schools, whose success, as we know, is closely linked to cooperation with employers. We also know that if there is no cooperation, there will be no success in vocational schools. I have a question: What amount have you allocated to support vocational education, particularly in the regions? Because 920 million euros were earmarked for this. What new offers or ways of implementing joint projects of vocational schools and entrepreneurs do you have in your offer? What forms of cooperation may be involved between them? I would like to take note of the fact that the Ministry of Education has also taken specific action in 2012 and 2015 in relation to programmes for vocational schools as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u158	Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether it is envisaged to educate young people who choose general education at the beginning of their journey to secondary schools and then decide to work in a profession. Will there be courses for these people, opportunities for learning in professional or professional schools? I would also like to ask if financial resources are provided for schools that want to rebuild the workshops that have been destroyed in recent years, because there are professions that need to be trained in such workshops. And one more point. Ladies and gentlemen, if vocational education had worked so well for eight years, we probably wouldn't have to carry out these reforms. This vocational training was not conducted in an appropriate way, and even the professionals, the professionals were less and less, because they had to flee abroad, because here for 8 years the Civic Platform was simply impossible to live and function. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u160	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is true that after 1989, especially in the last 10 years, vocational education has been in crisis, has been collapses, has been unrealised, has separated from the actual needs of the labour market and for many years education has not reacted to what is happening in this vocational education, but is deeply hurting the thesis that is formulated by Members of the PiS that nothing has been done in the eight years of the Platform's and PSL's governments. This is a false thesis and it is a deeply hurting thesis. [[Applause]] [[Lying yet.]] It is worth recalling, Minister, that such a nice step in rebuilding vocational education was adopted by the law on crafts from September 2015. It is worth recalling what the Minister spoke about, as my predecessors said, that local governments, i.e. marshals, those responsible for regional development, those who have real power in voivodships, received over 900 million euros just for reconstruction, for support of vocational education. And it was very well spent, even invested funds. It is worth recalling that during these 8 years of governance, the Platform and PSL have engaged in an effective dialogue with business local governments, as example - and here I will use the download - to align the classification of vocational education professions with the classification of occupations and specialties for the labour market in terms of trade names and their digital symbols. That's one thing. Secondly, the curriculum basis for vocational training described in the language of learning outcomes has been implemented. Finally, a system of qualification tests in professions has been harmonised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, additional forms of training have been introduced in the form of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u163	... qualifying vocational courses...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u164	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u165	...which will enable you to quickly acquire additional qualifications.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u167	Question, Minister: What's next? We wait... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u168	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u169	...for concrete reasons, we are waiting for concrete projects... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u170	Mr President, you've moved on.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u171	Let me remind you that what you're doing is continuing the activities of the Platform and the PSL...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u172	Mr President, please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u173	...self-governments...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u174	Sir, are you conscious? [[Game in the hall, applause]] Please, Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The reform of education carried out at the end of the last century led to a practical fall in vocational education, which... [[Voice from the room: When?]] I say, at the end of the last century. ...we haven't felt it for some time. [[Which one?]] Although attempts to repair this system were made by the previous team, coalition, but the government of Law and Justice was really responsible for changing this disadvantage by reforming Polish education. The renewal of vocational education is one of the objectives of the reform. [[Voice from the room: But what did you do?]] It's only been two years. Will the new vocational training model be linked to a specific industry, industry in a specific place in Poland? I mean a specific, but local, in a very broad sense of the word, labour market. What will be the participation of entrepreneurs in the vocational training process so that this education does not produce candidates for district labour offices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. I don't see your MP. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Very often when we are looking for a person who would perform a specific service, e.g. kielce, cross-dressing, whether we're looking for a construction specialist... [[We protect animals, we don't wear fur.]] ...type of flooring, roofing, carpenter or even plumber, we are facing a problem. It turns out that at the moment there are enormous difficulties in accessing these services, there are no professionals who would perform a specific service, although market demand exists. I have questions about that, Minister. How does the Ministry intend to support education in niche, rare and dying professions? Is there a list of dying, niche professions in the Ministry, and what measures are being taken to promote professional education in this direction? And one last question. Does the Ministry cooperate with the craftsmanship in order to maintain the tradition of cultural heritage, zdun, blacksmith, shoemaker, and, of course, the training of adepts in these professions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u178	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Due to the new railway development programme in Poland on an unprecedented scale in recent decades, rail work is again becoming extremely popular. They're going back to the railroad class. The training of new rail workers is very important because the generation gap is not just about drivers. The Railway Transport Office has collected information on railway training. The main problem is that there are no drivers. Due to the high health requirements and the relevant motor characteristics, not everyone can become a train driver, but other railway professions are not lacking. Positions directly related to the operation and safety of rail traffic and to the operation of certain types of railway vehicles are also important. These include: on-call, set-up, train manager, set-up, etc., etc. There are many, at least a dozen more functions at work on the railroad. However, for the next five years, 4.5 thousand will be retired. drivers, i.e. just over a quarter of the representatives of this profession. In the case of other railway professions, there is also no lack of data and the situation can be similar. The reasons for the generation gap for all railway stations are similar. I therefore ask the Minister, "Will the emerging industry schools safeguard the needs of the railway sector in this regard? My second question concerns the need to safeguard the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises to be admitted to the profession in a situation of very rapidly changing labour market needs. Are those entrepreneurs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] willing to train young people...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u181	...can they count on help? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u182	... Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The ageing of society is a natural and inevitable process in any highly developed economy. Changing the family model, low generational surrogacy requires that we prepare both social and medical services today. And it's not about doctors, it's not about doctors, it's about a different range, but it's especially about nurses and social workers, and it's about the education of these services. These are people who would support older people who need to be cared for both in their place of residence and in the so-called. institutional care, e.g. in social care homes or in day-to-day help homes. as part of the "Senior+" programme, which was initiated by the Civic Platform, the previous government, and we are also very successful in continuing it. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Ministry is cooperating and to what extent cooperates both with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and with the Ministry of Health in relation to the establishment of schools and the training of relevant services, medical care, social care. This is a really important problem. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that such people - medical nurses - can also support nurses, who are far too few. And here hospitals signal the problem that the average age of nurses is over 50 years old or about 50 years old and we have to [[♪ The bell ♪]] With certain actions, disable the nurses, replacing them with babysitters. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It was an important sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We focus mainly on education for young people, but there is also a question of whether people who have already finished, for example. high school or have a profession, but they cannot find a job in this profession today or in the future - whether it is in the intention of the Ministry of Education - they will also be able to change or supplement their qualifications. This is all the more important because the labour market is changing very strongly. There was talk of new competitions, but also of new skills, qualifications that are still needed. You don't always have to finish a few years of professional school. Sometimes a few months' qualification course is enough to prepare for this. Does the Ministry see such a need and will develop such training in vocational education? The second element concerns the appreciation of local authorities, which are committed to the development of vocational education. As I mentioned earlier, some local authorities are reluctant to invest in this type of school because of the costs - because in addition to theoretical training there must also be practical training. These are huge burdens for the county. It was said here that the counties are unfortunately in the best financial position. Will it therefore be possible to change the weights allocated to individual schools? I know that these things are already different today, but isn't the Ministry thinking about some additional resources that would encourage local governments to spend money directly from the state budget, perhaps adding a small part of it? This also refers, for example, to existing practical training centres. They generate a lot of costs. The machinery park, which is in them, requires systematic replenishment and modernisation and local governments without additional money will have a lot of problems here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u186	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of members of the vote. Now, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u187	This debate today shows at least one thing that all of us present in this Chamber, who are involved in the discussion, including the Minister, would very much like to lead to the development of vocational education, because we see this need, because the economic situation, the lack of professionals, shows that there is a need here to bring about the changes that entrepreneurs expect. True, there have been trials that were to go this way, but so far they have not produced such results that would suit everyone. I am therefore pleased with the Minister's declaration that further steps are being taken to resolve this situation. Probably won't be able to do that in the next few or even a dozen months. This process will probably continue for many years, for example because the modernisation of workshops or practical training centres will continue systematically and evenly over the next years and it cannot be done once, it must be a job that will... [[Okay.]] ...continuated in the years to come. The Minister mentioned here an increase in the role of employers. In fact, perhaps it would be worth hearing a little more details. You spoke about one example of KGHM, but as I have heard, also other state employers, large companies, especially in the energy sector, see the need to train workers, because in a few or several years there will really be a competence gap and a generation gap, which will be very difficult to complete if today we do not take steps to modernise vocational education, among others. in this area. But it also applies to others. There was a mention here. For example, the railroad. And I do know that. In my town a while ago, a train training school was shut down, and today is a very serious problem. These railwaymen must also have a slightly different education than they used to be, because the machines that train drivers drive today are slightly different from steam cars from a dozen or so years ago. A very important element is the possibility of a flexible approach to these programming bases and the easy creation of new directions. Sometimes there are competitions that we don't really know about today. In a few or several years, they can be very common professions, and today there are no schools that educate them. Hence, there seems to be a need to create a fast track of communication between entrepreneurs and the Ministry in order to be able to create a programme basis and new education courses to respond to the changing situation on the labour market. It would be good for us, when talking about such an issue, to avoid merely leading political disputes, and to focus more on proposals for changes that could happen here. I think the Ministry also expects some concrete proposals from the opposition here. If it makes sense, it's worth it for us to introduce it. Because in fact we have a common goal: to make the young generation of Poles work well on the Polish labour market. I would like to make it clear that we should be training primarily for the Polish labour market and not for demand in other European countries. Unfortunately, we are facing the problem of the migration of young people, which is further aggravating this lack of professionals in our market. Hence the involvement of entrepreneurs, not only those big ones, but also those small and medium-sized ones, in some patronage classes, the possibility of funding scholarships and binding young students to businesses is a good direction, because it will somehow prevent young qualified people from escaping outside our country. Here an important problem that we have hardly mentioned, perhaps in one or two speeches, is the problem of vocational training teachers. There is indeed a dissonance here. The level of teachers' earnings in general is, say, unsatisfactory, but the teachers of the professions, especially in comparison with professionals in their fields, earn significantly less. There is a very serious staff problem, and I think there should be some form of encouragement from entrepreneurs. I know that the Ministry is trying to get at least some large companies to be able to support this direction in some legal form as well. Perhaps the Minister can already give us some examples or directions of actions that are still ahead of us. And here's the last thing: financial resources. There was talk of funds transferred to the marshals of voivodships. Remember, these measures are already at the disposal of the marshals. The Minister is therefore not really here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The impact on how they are spent and not all local governments in the voivodships have actually benefited from these funds and made it easier for vocational schools to obtain this money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. Now please speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzena Machalek. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased with this discussion because it was a substantive discussion in the vast majority. I would like to say that I have all your questions written down here, but if I wanted to answer you very carefully one at a time, I would probably have to ask the marshal for extra time, so I would point out that I will answer the specific questions that I will not answer today in writing. However, I will try in such segments and thematic groups to answer these questions. First of all, we have to ask ourselves whether we are continuing what happened in 2012 or whether we are doing something new. The state here responds to this in such a way that we only do what you do, and that's why it's so bad. Do we just have to change what we found, and we have to fix it? So I'll say yes. We benefit from what was good, but some things really need to be changed. I didn't want to point a finger at anybody here, but the fact that we found vocational and technical schools with such educational efficiency that we are dealing with 30% in the case of technicians and more than 40% in the case of primary schools with low unemployment in the country is just a testimonial that it didn't work out. What is very important is a good software basis. I am addressing teachers here, as well as former ministers. As far as the issue of the document is concerned, it is a very important document, it is a regulation that determines what and how to teach, and there are already records that tell you how to check it. It's not true that those basics were good. They were illegible. [[That's what happened.]] Take a look at the basics. I encourage you to look at the basics. There must have been additional spending from the EU programme to write programmes that are not a document in force at school without the Director's approval to explain what the programme's basis is. On the basis that was published in 2012, there were such records: What can a cook do? He knows how to prepare food and drinks - it was written in the program base - and the pie maker prepares confectionery. We're fundamentally changing it right now, we're detailing the software base. [[Is that what the employers let go of?]] We detail and do it with our employers. I would like to say that it was the employers who volunteered for us and claimed that unfortunately they did not participate in the writing of the basics of the program, and that is why they are dissatisfied with these principles. Of course, we encourage consultation on these grounds. [[The facts are different.]] We also encourage you to help us with your own mistakes, because this is more important than the case of some word pusher here. I'd ask you not to do that right now. [[So don't push around with us because the facts are different.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u190	Mrs Augustyn... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: We change the software bases in an important and fundamental way. Not just from the editorial side, so it's clear... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you don't have a voice right now. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...but they really involve employers. I also want to say what is very important. When it comes to changing basic school to an industry school, it is also very important that schools that prepare for important professions cease to associate badly. We just want to give prestige to work, prestige to work. [[You're narrowing it down.]] Unfortunately, that wasn't the case. We want first of all to be able to... [[But the name of prestige doesn't change.]] I understand that's what teachers say. Ministers just interrupt after every word. Can't the state plead guilty that 40% People, 30% are unemployed, and now we have to fix it? It's gotta be fixed. [[What's the fault? What are you saying?]] In general, there is a huge challenge ahead of us. As I said, in April we will announce further changes to the law that will help to remedy the situation when it comes to preparing young people not only for the future but also for the modern economy. [[You've made a mess of the world.]] First of all, it is very important and important to strengthen the districts, those districts that educate in the professions that are needed in the labour market. Already this year there is the first introduced differentiated subsidy, which depends on cost-intensiveness, we have four groups of occupations dependent on cost-intensiveness, in this way the subsidy is passed on. On the basis of the research tool prepared by the CSO, but also by the IBE, we want to diversify the subsidy from 2019 so that those counties that really teach in the necessary and costly professions feel a decisive improvement in funding so that education is not financed in those professions where the unemployed are prepared. Indeed, there is a huge challenge ahead of us for employers to be in the process of vocational training. There is no system in the world that does good vocational training without employers. The question was whether we were using German patterns. Yes, we do. Germany, on the other hand, is also struggling with the problem of leaving their students from vocational schools, because they do not have this path. Our professional school not only changes by name, but also shows young people: you can go to professional school, you can already receive some funds to help you function in your life, but you can also continue to learn, which is on the one hand you can get a job, but it doesn't close you down any way. [[That's always been the case.]] Unfortunately, that hasn't been the case so far. [[What do you mean it wasn't?]] The competition was associated in Poland with the fact that if you do not study, you will go to the competition. [[That's what you said.]] We want to say, you want a job, you can have a good future, you can go to a competition, you can go to a tech school. We are glad that so many young people go to this school, but this school also needs to be shown on the good side. On the bright side, you can only show a school that... [[It was the year of the professionals - 2014.]] We need to promote a professional school, we need to promote a technique, but first of all we need to create it in a good way. I say again: we are finally having a real dialogue with employers. It's a few hundred, over 0.5 thousand employers when they write the basics of the program, that's a few hundred employers... [[The employers are waiting for the money.]] No, big employers should invest in their employees, students, future employees. I would advise those who want to do education to see what vocational training systems in the world look like. Maybe if you knew that, you wouldn't be saying that right now, we wouldn't have such a problem with vocational training right now. And you think that employers need to be co-financed to prepare their employees. Yes, there are small employers who need help, but big employers have to go to schools, they have to prepare teachers. We also plan to oblige teachers to train and practice in workplaces. [[Two years, Minister, you're already planning.]] Today, of course, we already have the appropriate rules that we will announce in April and which will come in 2019. These are huge challenges, as I hear here, about the change of thought. Vocational training is an education that must be provided and prepared... [[You're not gonna do that by regulation.]] ...in real working conditions. That's not the point. That's what we're doing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Shumilas, please don't disturb me. [[You're gonna do like you did with the IPN.]] Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: Yeah, well, I don't think the scream of truth is gonna stop. It's a shame the ladies behave like that, but it's a self-certification. [[We need to respond to your lies.]] And culture. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: I am talking about vocational training right now, and I am talking about real cooperation with employers. I'm talking about the fact that we want industry schools to prepare students who can take a job. I just want to talk about some of the conclusions. [[Two years you want.]] We're really listening. and the conclusions that arise from our debates and discussions with employers, of course we will introduce into the programme basis that will come into force in 2019. They're not just gonna be different... This will not only be another content, but another will also be a way of editing, which will be readable and for the employer, which is very important because it is a document that is important for the employer, and for the Central Examination Board, and for the school, and for the county. What is very important is that we want them to take into account employers' demands. As far as the road transport industry is concerned, we work with it. [[Employers wrote this in 2011.]] There was a question about the rail transport industry - we want to shorten the path of obtaining driver's license. In the health sector, we want to introduce the profession of the caretaker of an independent person, and we are discussing this too. In the mining and drilling industry, we want to introduce content that is not only about underground exploitation. This is the introduction of content... [[How much longer do you want?]] I don't know if you've been plugged in or not, but you might wanna take it easy. Introduction of content concerning the operation of ore, stone salt. We're in the business of... [[But don't worry, give me a chance to tell you.]] I understand it's hard to accept that someone's working. Economic, administrative and office industries - we want to introduce a specialization in the field of online sales. These are the conclusions of the discussion with the employers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also want to introduce additional ones. profession of male hairdresser in the form of an experiment. We want to introduce an additional specialization in the field of network security programmer in the case of IT technology. [[It's like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the specifics we're introducing. I would like to say to you that it is regrettable that on a matter of substance such as vocational training, on such an obvious issue, with such a huge shortage of professionals in the labour market, the discussion takes place, it has a form of shouting, when I say that we need to prepare good research... [[Because you're missing the truth.]] ...there is a need to prepare good research, a research tool that will determine and forecast the demand for professions and which will determine the cost-intensiveness of professions - and on the basis of this we will pass a subsidy to the counties so as not to educate in unnecessary professions - that we are changing the programming bases in cooperation with employers to take account of the needs of the labour market, that we will... [[These are obvious things.]] Minister, I've counted the time for the screaming... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...opened to teachers. But, Marshal, I... ...but please be kind enough to conclude. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: I'm pretty sure about that. And I invite you to read the old basics and see what they look like, and look at the ones we're creating. We invite you to the congress of counties, where we will present new legal solutions. I'm sure of it. I talk to my employers almost every day. I'm really glad they're starting out, and in a way so intense... Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...not just PGE, not just KGHM, not just Enea, not just enter... [[These are companies. What are they supposed to do?]] They have to, because that's what I'm gonna say... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: I'll end up like this. We prepare staff for our business and business must be for school, school must be for business. It has to be synergy, which is why... [[These are truisms, Minister. You're telling the truisms.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: But it doesn't exist at the moment, which is why there's such a gap between the needs of the labour market and what they're preparing schools for... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzena Machalek: ...and we're going to change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the government draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social housing, shelters and houses for homeless people, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws (prints No. 2192 and 2243). [[The debate is not about reading from the card.]] And you are still yelling, Member. The point is over, and you still feel like... [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, because the Minister doesn't know what the debate should look like.]] ...the marketplace. [[The fact that you're ill-mannered is what we know.]] Member, because I will be forced to punish you. [[There you go.]] You're welcome. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present a report by the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code and some other laws. At its meeting on 26 January, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the committee. The joint committees have chosen a subcommittee which has examined the draft law in detail. We had nearly 300 amendments, mostly technical, legislative ones. It was recognized in the subcommittee. Then, yesterday, the committee met and decided on a number of parliamentary amendments. We have one amendment that has been accepted by the joint committees. It contained a definition of a nearby village. This amendment did not provide for technical and legislative consequences to be deleted in Article. 2 point 15 of the draft sub-paragraph b where there is an empty reference. This has been corrected by the Legislative Bureau. I would like to inform you that the text of the law adopted by the Sejm will contain this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the work, the committees propose and request that the attached draft law be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u192	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Milczanowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters, shelters for homeless, heating rooms and temporary rooms, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws, print No. 2192, is part of the National Housing Program. The main objective of the project is to improve the availability of housing for people who are not wealthy. The changes contained in the project concern the rules for assisting local authorities in the creation of housing stock for rent and the rules for the management of the housing stock of the municipality. The project should be considered to be socially relevant. It applies directly, indirectly, through municipal authorities, to persons who require State support in meeting housing needs due to low income or difficult living situation. This is so important that public support has been received in recent years by people who have been creditworthy and have been able to borrow long-term housing loans. Therefore, part of the instruments supporting the provision of housing needs, e.g.: the interest relief, the family programme on its own and the housing programme for young people, supported relatively wealthy people. On the other hand, there was a disproportionately low involvement of the state budget with solutions addressed to a group of entities with insufficient income to buy housing in the market, for example. young people, employed on the basis of periodic employment contracts, contract contracts or for various reasons excluded from society. With regard to the details of this law, which regulates the financial support programme for municipal construction which has been in operation since 2007, it is planned to make available to municipal authorities in 2019 and 2025 to cover part of the cost of building apartments for rent, including municipal and protected buildings, and to create the so-called. the intervention stock - these are heating houses, shelters, temporary premises - a total amount of more than PLN 6 billion. This amount is six times the previous expenditure of the State budget for this purpose. It corresponds with the identified housing deficits for rent. There will be an uprising of up to 170,000. new dwellings. The financial support for municipalities now amounts to between 30 and 55% of the costs of the project. An important solution is to increase from 30 to 50% of the costs of the purchase of former works flats, with the possibility of selling them later to the tenants with a bonus. It is also important to allow for simultaneous financing of the same projects from the European Union and to support them on the basis of the revised provisions of the Act. The municipalities will also be provided with a new financial housing support facility for rent. It is a non-refundable grant from the Fund of 20% of the costs of the project, where an investor other than the municipality will build apartments for people who are not eligible for the municipal premises from the housing stock of the municipality, but still need support in meeting their housing needs due to the amount of their income. The law on the protection of tenants' rights was introduced, among others. the possibility for the municipality to verify the income of the tenants of the housing stock and the corresponding rent increase. This will apply to a situation where the tenant achieves income exceeding the income thresholds set by the municipality. This principle applies only to new lease contracts concluded after the entry into force of the amended law. It was possible to terminate the lease contract when the tenant has a legal title to another premises not only in the same village but also in a nearby village. The social rent of the apartments has been introduced. The municipality will be able to rent or rent any place that meets the statutory requirements as part of a social lease, which should reduce the scale of problems related to the shortage of such premises. The municipality will be given an instrument that allows tenants who occupy very large premises to convert these premises into smaller, more suitable for their needs, with lower charges. The project eliminates the eviction on the pavement. Those who have a temporary space will not be evicted to the accommodation unit, but to the temporary space provided by the municipality. On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I ask the High House to accept the above. a draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Aldona Młyńczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I present an opinion on the draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws, prints No. 2192 and 2243. High Izbo! The draft law amends the provisions on availability and hire of municipal premises. It eliminates the resources of social housing, including them in the municipal stock. The project foresees that housing from municipal resources is intended for low-income people who do not find an offer of housing on the free market due to the amount of the rent. Applications for the allocation of premises will be dealt with on the basis of income and the income criteria will be determined by the municipalities. The rent will be determined according to income - the higher the income, the higher the rent. The Act requires municipalities to verify the income of tenants at least every 2.5 years. Each tenant will have to make a statement about earnings, property held and the right to residential property. If no declaration is made, the municipality may increase the rent to 8% the replacement value on a yearly basis. If you have a house or apartment, the tenant loses the right to rent. The rules on the occupation of deserts have been relaxed. Now the court can rule on the power to conclude a social lease if this is socially justified. The amendment also lays down the rules for the granting of financial support from the Fund to entities carrying out projects involving the creation of apartments for rent, shelters, shelters for homeless, heating rooms and temporary premises. It should be noted that changes are generally assessed positively by the Platform, as they are intended to allow local governments to manage housing resources more rationally, efficiently and flexibly, which, hopefully, will contribute to the provision of housing aid to a larger group of residents. But the essence of change is, as usual, in the details. We therefore consider it appropriate to refine and correct a number of provisions during the work of the subcommittee and committees, in particular a large number of legislative errors, but also substantive ones. It is a question of changing the date of entry into force, which is more realistic, the refinement of the definition of a locality, the obligation for the municipality to secure a social establishment in the event of a judgment ordering the emptying of the premises, and not just the submission of an offer, the exclusion of the forced exchange of premises in the case of persons who are over 75 years of age, unless they agree. We also appreciate the change in the way rent increases are calculated in the event of a change in tenant's income, but we still believe that the algorithm used to calculate is unfavourable for tenants, and a sanctioned increase of up to 8% in our opinion, the replacement value is too high. We also negatively assess the provision already introduced, but repeated in the amendment, concerning institutional rental, in particular as regards the submission of a declaration in the form of a notarial act in which the tenant undertakes to leave the premises within 14 days without the right to social premises or temporary premises. Such a record causes people to be thrown out on the street without being able to investigate the social premises from the commune. We propose that we delete this entry. On behalf of the Civic Platform, I shall make appropriate amendments to the institution's rental, the change of the rent calculation algorithm, as well as the maximum amount of rent in case of failure to make a declaration. We're proposing that it's 6%. the replacement value. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting a position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the government's draft law amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code and some other laws, print No. 2192, and the report is print No. 2243. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our joint committees: Infrastructure and the Regional Government and Regional Policy were in agreement during the work that the direction and course of the procedure were appropriate, that the comments made here by both the Ministry and the social side were correct. I'm happy with all sides. In fact, we have some dilemmas about some nuances here, hence the Kukiz15 club supports further work, we do not make any comments at this stage and we hope that the final bill prepared will be received positively by both local authorities and local residents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień will now speak on behalf of the Poselski Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u199	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present to you the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for homeless people, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. It's 2192. There is no doubt that a change of law is needed in this respect. It is also difficult to disagree with the idea of the creators to make the places the most in need. However, doubts are raised as to whether the new law will meet these assumptions. In the meantime, the implementation of the proposed law is expected to absorb about PLN 6 billion from the state budget in the years 2019. But municipalities will also have to participate in the costs of this task. Building premises is one thing. Let us remember that their subsequent maintenance can also hit the budgets of the municipality. It's one thing. However, apart from this, there are records in the bill that conflict with the social sense of justice that can be harmful and disrupt the existing order. I don't have much time, so I'm going to focus on the most important controversial issues for me. One relates to wild tenants illegally engaged in deserts. In light of today's records, voluntary break-in and seizure of the premises - the wrong and forbidden act, more often comes to it through force destruction - is additionally stigmatized. The law on the protection of the rights of tenants assumes that the person making the self-sacrifice of the apartment will not be entitled to a social establishment, regardless of the situation. This record does not encourage self-loathing, because it is not an obvious way to get an apartment faster than waiting in line. At the same time, it must be stressed that today's law gives courts the opportunity to rule in such cases contrary to the general principle, i.e. it leaves the courts the possibility to designate the right to a social establishment for a man who has taken up the premises voluntarily if the granting of a social establishment is particularly justified in the light of the principles of social coexistence, i.e. if you are pregnant. The intention of the legislature, which sanctiones an act declared prohibited, is therefore incomprehensible. What is the deletion of the article. 24, which states that the right to a social establishment does not belong to a person who takes up the premises voluntarily and in respect of whom the court has ordered the emptying of the premises, unless the granting of a social establishment would be particularly justified in the light of the principles of social cohabitation, which expressly warns that the voluntary occupation of the premises does not pay? Instead, it is the introduction of only the provision in Article. 17 after the mouth. One, that's the mouth. 1a, in the wording that the court may rule on the right to conclude a contract for the rental of a social establishment to a person who has taken up an establishment without a legal title, if the granting of such an improvement would be particularly justified in the light of the principles of social co-operation. Is it fair, from a social point of view, to break into empty apartments to get past the queue to break the rules? If this is how the government wants to rush the municipalities to settle the deserts efficiently, it doesn't seem like the right way. It is highly likely that, after the change in the law of the municipality, they will not apply to the courts for eviction in similar situations so as not to increase their housing obligations. Self-resident tenants will not get a legal title to the premises and will pay high compensation instead of low rent, and the suspension will last for years. After all, legislators certainly do not care about chaos, but about good law and building social justice. My doubts are also raised by provisions concerning the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code. We're talking about art. 1046. The legislator proposes to abolish the possibility of evicting the accommodation facility. He claims that the current regulation contributes to increasing homelessness. However, another part of the existing law on the protection of the rights of tenants is forgotten today. I'm talking about art here. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, 5 and 6. The prescribed provision gives full protection to those covered by the eviction sentence, only that it does so improperly, because today the bailiff examines ex officio the execution of the person subject to legal protection. If this is the case, he must inform the person concerned that he or she may bring an action to establish entitlement to a social establishment within 6 months and suspend the proceedings. That's what the D.A. needs to notify. In this way, the person is given the opportunity to change the adverse judgment of the court. This provision therefore does not give the possibility to evict pregnant women, minors or disabled women and all other protected persons, unless they can live in a place other than those used to date. Yes, it may be that judicial decisions ordering the emptying of a dwelling may fall into error, so the court does not always have the opportunity to consider all the circumstances of the case, but that is what the article is for. 35, to protect persons covered by the statutory protection enshrined in Article. 14 in the most appropriate manner. Well, for who, then... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I have another moment, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u200	One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u201	Okay, thank you. For whom, then, the new law creates an article. 1046 § 4 Code of Civil Procedure and an eviction fragment to the accommodation unit? In my opinion, for all those who have a place to live, which. confirmed the court proceedings, and do not wish to voluntarily leave the illegally occupied communal flat. In such a situation, however, even the mere indication of the temporary space is reprehensible and will raise public opposition. One more question arises: If we are so interested in restricting homelessness, is it possible to evict temporary premises? To sum up, the introduction of a provision in the proposed wording will not limit or prevent homelessness, nor will it increase the protection of those who are legally entitled to it, as it follows from the article. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 35 Act on the protection of tenants. However, it will certainly delay and make it difficult for the municipalities to recover their dwellings...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u202	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u203	...so necessary to limit homelessness. Mr. Marshal, thank you, I just want to make an amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u204	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present a position towards the government draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, according to prints 2192 and 2243. The Polish People's Party Club, as in the whole legislative process, is in favour of continuing its work so that the final version of this bill can be adopted in the near future. We believe that the provisions of this law - hopefully only to be finalised - will be able to contribute to the change in the shortest possible time of the picture of housing resources in municipalities and our local communities. I think it will be very important, especially important for these smaller municipalities, which are far away from urban centres, because these centres with limited budgets always have big problems, which once better, sometimes worse to meet these requirements and expectations. In our view, the provisions of this project and the discussion at committee meetings - also taking into account the effects of the subcommittee's work - show that we have been able to move far away from other points of view of reality, and that we have focused to a large extent, mostly on the creation of such phrases, which can be jointly accepted by all clubs. I think that those issues that will be supported - that is to say, the funding of municipal authorities and entities that will create, build, renovate, adapt housing for municipal purposes, decouple social housing, housing, housing for the purposes listed here, accommodation and others - deserve support. This is very necessary. It is also good that we include the possibility of supporting and creating so-called. financial engineering in securing measures for carrying out tasks. The project also addresses the issue of the protection of the rights of residents of these buildings and also regulates the issue of rent. I think that these issues will ultimately be clarified in the further legislative process and the proposal will be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u206	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. [[Why not one and a half?]] I'm closing the list of questions. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Club, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of this term of office, I have been seeking, but also before, all forms of housing. This law certainly responds to the use of other ways of acquiring apartments for another group, which is also in need. I therefore support a number of provisions of this law. On the other hand, the obvious mistake in this bill is the institutional lease that a colleague spoke of. It will simply cause homelessness, because these people cannot apply for social housing. The next thing that bothers me is the financial consequences for the municipalities. Of course, you have reserved some money to build these premises, and the municipalities will not get the money to maintain them. As a long-term self-government officer always [[♪ The bell ♪]] I take care to allocate funds to local governments from the central budget...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u208	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u209	...in the wake of another task. That's what I'm asking for now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u210	The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law empowers the municipalities to verify that the tenant fulfils the criterion of income justifying the transfer of the premises to the tenant. What if a declaration is not made within the deadline? During the committee's work, a very rigorous amendment was introduced to allow the municipality to increase the rent to 8%. the replacement value during the year. According to my calculations, the rent could increase by four. - and even five times. This is a very dangerous record that allows for a restrictive rent without explaining the reasons for not making a declaration. I ask: Why does the government resort to such drastic methods when it comes to helping the poorest Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u212	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I met an airman from World War II, a surgeon and an opera singer in the homeless shelters. The social margin label is too often glued to these people. I think it is particularly important to support the establishment of social housing, but some homeless, sick people leaving the hospital or unable to benefit from hospital treatment need healthcare support. Such activities provide some accommodation facilities. I would like to ask if the government intends to lean on this problem as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u214	Thank you. The question is asked by Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask - or rather get such information or assurance from the Minister - whether it will actually be possible for the municipality to apply for the financing of such projects, which will be covered by premises excluded from use or premises in situations where their use is prohibited. I want to be assured by the Minister that the Payment Fund will also be able to carry out renovations or reconstructions of such premises, while there is no need to demonstrate the main objective of increasing the municipal housing stock. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the reliance of the rent on the income earned. This is absurd, Minister. The higher the income, the higher the rent. The accepted rent calculation algorithm is unfavourable to the tenants, strongly unfavourable, and demotivating in terms of professional activity. There's still time to think about it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a, through this provision, all liability for unreliable debtors is transferred to the municipality. Have you consulted with local government units? On the other hand, the solution in Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6a is unacceptable. This will result in a significant extension of the procedure of emptying premises, which already takes a very long time, because, you know, and court cases, and the waiting time... [[♪ The bell ♪]] But this is a very long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u218	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u219	Minister! I wanted to ask why the construction of housing for rent by municipal entities, where this involves a contract with an entity other than the municipality, will be subject to funding of only 20%. It seems that the municipality should rather go in this direction, because it is not a building specialist itself, and should be assisted by entities that have appropriate know-how, experience and opportunities in this area. It seems that here we are dealing with a lack of decision on the part of the Ministry in order to support this way of building housing. They are simply needed at the moment when the situation on the labour market is what it is, and human mobility is needed. It doesn't seem like going down that far with funding is the right thing to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u220	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first like to thank all the Members, all the clubs, for their substantive work both in the subcommittee and in the committee. Of course, a number of important amendments or changes were adopted, which were the result and our analysis of the rules and reservations and doubts raised by the opposition Members. On the other hand, with regard to the various opinions of the clubs, I would like to say that it is a pity that Mrs Stępień is not here at the Modern Club, because she did not understand the article at all. 35. There is no solution that we are now talking about in the article. 10, would cause that there would be no provision to protect part of the tenants as regards the possibility of obtaining a social lease, since that provision in Article. 35 makes it clear that the person referred to in Article. 14, which the Member referred to, is entitled to a social establishment if before the date of entry into force of the law it has been subject to a judicial decision. So this is a transitional provision that only applies to those tenants who received such contracts before 2001. That is why we need to introduce a new solution to this transitional provision so that the target solution is already in place, and that is currently in the regulation. So that here is absolutely a misunderstanding on the part of the Member representing the Modern Club. As regards Mrs Czernow's reservation that we have introduced a very restrictive solution in the form of an 8% border, there was no limit in the original solution, Mrs Czernow, so that the municipality could set this maximum rent in any way. We have introduced a border, so it is certainly not a more restrictive solution, it is a solution in favour of the tenants - future ones, because it does not apply to present ones, but to future ones - the solution which sets that limit. About the country's scale is the equivalent of market rent. This was the response to the reservations that arose during the debate during the discussion. So I think it's perfectly correct, and it only gives the municipality the opportunity to do so in a situation where the municipality, through income verification, will determine that such a person has a higher income and will be able to pay a higher rent. I already talked about this at committee meetings and subcommittees. It is a fundamental principle of social justice that people who receive or at whose disposal certain limited goods remain, such as housing, in a situation where they exceed the level of income, the Member, and those who meet the criteria are waiting in line to receive such a place... This person who has a very high income still has to pay this rent. In the case of Warsaw, imagine this, a person who has 10,000. income, will pay PLN 370 rent. Here you are, I congratulate you on your well-being, Madam, if you think it is socially fair, that if a person who, according to the income thresholds, should have 1,400 PLN and has 10,000 PLN. zł, she will still pay 370 zł. Well, that's absolutely unfair to society. The people who wait and have this 1400 zloty can't get an apartment because the person who has 11,000. income, pays PLN 370. The original record resulted in the possibility of termination of the contract and eviction of such a person. We gave up the eviction to raise rents. This person, with a large income, is not forced to do so. It is not unfortunate for this person that she must live in municipal resources. She can move out and rent any apartment on the free market, perhaps with less rent if she is so hurt by the municipality. Next line. Mrs Tomaszewska asked about the functioning of the accommodation unit. We only regulate the financing of the establishment of accommodation facilities. The municipalities can get up to 50% or 55% Whereas the very functioning and rules of accommodation are those which the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy determines. We're not interfering with this anymore. As regards Mrs Leszczyńska's question, yes, the Donation Fund will finance these projects, which concern housing or housing in buildings that have been excluded from service and are therefore not in stock. This is the kind of apartment you'll be able to get funding for. So far it has not been, now it will be possible, of course, after renovating these apartments will be back in municipal resources, they will enter this resource. Once again, we are returning to the doubts of Mrs Navel, who is surprised that if someone makes more money, they must pay more. I repeat this once again: this is a fundamental principle of justice. As far as municipal resources are concerned, which on our Polish market are very valuable, because there are few, we assume that within 7 years this queue is about 170 thousand. People... It depends on the methodology of the study, but we're hoping there's 170,000 missing. housing, it's still a scarce commodity. Therefore, it cannot be so - I repeat once again - that someone earns a lot and pays PLN 370 rent. Ladies and gentlemen, I think someone who is reasonable in this regard will think that this is a good solution. Mr Wilczyński asked why only 20%. Mr President, so far there has been no such instrument. We're introducing a 20% grant and we think it's big. We are based here on solutions that function in TBS, where basically about 20% It's so-called. Participation. A lot of municipalities and a lot of TBSs at the moment are hoping that this is the 20% it can be used as a participation of the municipality in social construction, but not only, because in any public-private partnership this grant can be used. A very important change also applies to the rules of co-financing. We've been eliminating two editions since next year, because now in March it's this spring one, and then it's autumn one. There will be no two editions, only applications for funding can be submitted throughout the year. We move on to the issue of the special-purpose reserve, we assume 500 million subsidies in 2019. I have spoken with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and if this demand is greater next year, the municipalities will learn to use all the instruments that we are introducing at the moment, it may even be possible to increase the involvement of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego with the Payment Fund. We also want the fund, so to speak, to fund additional funds for the sale of the State Treasury property, so that the aid is greater. Just as it must happen in the future that the deficit in the field of municipal construction will be eliminated, the Dollar Fund will also help other types of construction, including those who have too high income to get a communal apartment and too low to get a loan. So this will also be a way to finance some of the future apartments that will be built. So, once again, thanking everyone for their work, I hope that we will go through the next meeting efficiently, during which we will consider the amendments that you have tabled. I thank the High House and count on the support of this proposal during the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Committee rapporteur Mr Piotr Uściński. The Minister has already answered the questions so that you kindly do not repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm just going to take a little bit of a look at what's been said here. To the club's comments first. Ms Młyńczak said in her statement that the law refers to the verification of the income criterion by the municipalities at least every 2.5 years. I simply wanted to correct this substantively: the project is not minimal and not more often than every 2.5 years, so the municipalities will be able to apply longer deadlines, even every 5 years, if the municipality comes to such a conclusion. As for the speech made by the modern lady, I am amazed at such criticism of this law from top to bottom. Now the Member is no longer here, so it is difficult even to respond to this criticism, but on behalf of the committee I would like to point out that the Modern representative did not come to the meeting of the subcommittee at the meeting of the Joint Committee, neither did she make any amendments, did not take the floor in substance, and now, from top to bottom, criticises the entire bill, makes an amendment to it, if I may say, a little insignificant, insignificant, so it is difficult to talk about substantive work, unlike... And here I wanted to thank the representatives of the Civic Platform for their really substantive work in the subcommittees. Mrs. Zofia Czernow asked a little question... Minister, allow me to complete the Minister's reply. She asked for this restrictive amendment. She's not restrictive. The government project included a provision that, in the absence of a declaration of income by the resident of the premises, the municipality could terminate the lease agreement - completely terminate the lease agreement. Our amendment is much less restrictive. In this case, the municipality will not be able to terminate the lease agreement if the resident does not submit a statement of income but can only raise the rent to 8% the replacement value on a yearly basis, so as the Ministry calculated, in fact the market value of the lease, which - I think - is a very fair social amendment and a very good record. Of course, on behalf of the joint committees, I declare that we will try to resolve the amendments as efficiently as possible so that the High Sejm can vote tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u225	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the Change of the Civil Code and some other laws after work in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Apartment is a basic element of a sense of security, which still does not have many citizens in Poland. Years of neglect are difficult to do, and unfortunately it takes time. In a particularly difficult situation there are people with low income. Therefore, increasing access to housing for people with lower social status is an important commitment of the State. The contested law increases the possibility of meeting the housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion, and the granting of the premises is one of the forms of social assistance. I am pleased that we are finally dealing with the housing problem comprehensively, but at the same time we take into account individual situations, which is reflected in the submission during the work of the joint amendment committee, which excluded seniors after 75 years of age from the obligation to change apartments, in the event that the apartment is inhabited by too few people in relation to its size. As a believer of the idea of social solidarity, I also welcomed a change that allows municipalities to increase their rent if their income is increasing strongly. It cannot be that people with a high material status earning well above the national average benefit from preferential conditions for renting apartments that are lacking for socially excluded persons. It's a change in a very good direction. The contested law also assumes that people using municipal resources do not need to leave the premises - as has been the case so far - when their social status changes and must, for example. change the existing municipal agreement to a social contract. This unnecessary procedural obstacle has also been eliminated in this law. We all want Poland to live better and safer. The modest four walls give this opportunity and I am convinced that thanks to this law and the implementation of the program, the Living+ program will be able to provide a much larger number of Poles, not luxury. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u226	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of paragraph 17: Report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law, prints No 1042 and 2234. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being oppressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State (prints No. 2063 and 2237). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present a report on the Senate draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State, prints No. 2063 and 2237. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Following consultation of the Sejm Bureau, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 24 November 2017. At its meeting on 6 February 2018, the Commission addressed a senate draft law which grants the possibility of seeking compensation and redress for children of mothers deprived of liberty on the basis of decisions declared invalid in prison or another place of isolation with their mothers and persons whose mother was in prison or another place of confinement during pregnancy. The project explicitly expresses the possibility for children conceived and unborn in prison to claim claims already adopted in the case-law of the administrative courts under the law of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. The project allows for the death of the person entitled to claim by his/her spouse, children and parents. The competent courts for the recovery of these claims shall be the district courts in accordance with the applicant's place of residence. In the absence of recognition as void of a decision given to the mother, which is the basis for the claim of compensation or redress by her child, the proposal allows the child to apply for such annulment and, in the event of the death of the child, also the spouse, children and parents. The proposal provides for the possibility of redress and redress by the children of mothers for whom grounds for annulment are laid down if the defendant has been acquitted or the proceedings have been dismissed for the reasons referred to in Article. 17 § 1 points 1 and 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and no compensation or redress has been finalized, and these mothers have been detained or temporarily arrested. It is hereby recalled that the conditions for the termination of the proceedings with Article are met. 17 § 1 (1) and (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall take place where the act has not been committed or there is insufficient evidence to justify the suspicion that it has been committed and where the act does not contain the marks of a criminal offence or the act provides that the perpetrator does not commit the offence. The second aspect of the Senate's legislative initiative involves broadening the scope of the subjective law on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against those repressed for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State to include persons who have received the status of anti-communist opposition activist or a person who has been repressed for political reasons on the basis of the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those who have been repressed for political reasons. The article was added. 8c, according to which a person with a confirmed status as an anti-communist activist or a person repressed for political reasons is entitled to compensation from the State Treasury for the damage suffered and compensation for the damage suffered which is the result of the activities or repression referred to in that Act. Let me remind you that this is about the years 1956 and 1989. Transitional provision of the proposed law, i.e. Article 2 2 provides that the entitled child imprisoned with his mother, including the conceived child, nasciturus, where the judgment has been declared invalid before the date of entry into force of the proposed law, may lodge a claim for compensation or compensation within 3 years of the date of entry into force of that law. The Act has a minimum period of vacathio legis: 14 days. This mechanism from the article. 2, i.e. a transitional provision, will ensure that most claims against the Treasury are disclosed within this 3-year period from the date of entry into force of the Act and will reduce the uncertainty associated with payments in the next period. The Senate project was very widely consulted, not only in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, but also with the Ombudsman, the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the Institute of National Remembrance, the Department of Social Insurance. The opinion was also issued by the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity), the Charter Centre Foundation, the Association of 13 December, the Association of Free Words, the Association of Invalids of the War of the Republic of Poland, the Polish Union of Emeritus, Rencists and Invalids. All these opinions were, of course, positive. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights at its meeting on 6 February this year. unanimously supported this project. She also expressed her thanks to the Senate, in particular the Senate Committee on the Rule of Law, Human Rights and Petitions, which initiated this project. On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of the bill submitted by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u228	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz is not here to replace Mr Lipc. But, sir, I think you've already said all about it... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Right? That's what I thought.]] ...so please be kind enough to conclude.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u229	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! In principle, the arguments I made on behalf of the committee as rapporteur should be repeated. Maybe I should just say briefly that this is the Senate's second initiative and that in the previous Senate term in 2013, the Senate took the same initiative. This senate initiative went to the Sejm and for about a year and a half it simply remained until the end of the term of office, the Sejm did not take up work. It would seem that this is not, High Izbo, some great burden on the state budget, because according to the facts of 2013 it involved 25 people, 25 children who were born in prisons or other places of isolation. Now, after the next period, it turned out that these people are more, that this is 40 people, so you can't say that this is some big burden on the budget. These are people, children born in prisons or prisons, mostly the Security Service or earlier the Security Office, who of course had various kinds of problems, including the fact that they could not apply like other citizens even for civil status records, especially birth certificates, because there were problems with it. And it is described in the petition, which was the reason for this project, just such a person, a man born by the mother of a WiN activist from the Kraków region in a very heavy prison in Fordon near Bydgoszcz. He was there as a baby for eight months, because so much effort was made by her sister to take care of her son. Later these children were often considered to be children of bandits in their own environments, they grew up, it can be described as such, in the so-called. environmental ostracism. It is usually said of such people that in the Polish People's Republic they were second-class persons. That is why I mention this in my club speech, because that was the reason that this legislative initiative was taken. It is a pity that it is so late, because of course it should be earlier, because these are the people who actually later, when they reached the age of an adult, fought for the independent existence of the Polish state. And although it's just about their lives, because they're mostly people. Already at the age of, well, they are 70 years old and more... but it is also important here that the legislator saw the possibility that after their death their children would also be able to apply for compensation and compensation from the Treasury for the experience of this one of their parents. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that this project be supported by the entire House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u230	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężyłko, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting the position of the club on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate bill amending the law on the amendment of the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State, print No. 2063. The project amends the Act of 23 February 1991 on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State, extending its subjective scope by two groups of persons. Firstly, the aim is to ensure that the children of mothers deprived of liberty who have been found invalid in prison or in another place of confinement or whose mothers are in prison or in another place of confinement may obtain compensation for the damage suffered and compensation for the harm suffered in connection with their stay in prison. In the explanatory memorandum it is it is well-argued both in substance, i.e. in the sense of elementary justice, as the rapporteur said here, and formally, on the basis of the values of the democratic rule of law expressed in constitutional values, other laws and judicial decisions. The project regulates this issue in a comprehensive manner, taking into account all combinations related to both recognition and non-recognition of judgments against mothers - in cases of conception, birth or presence of a child in prison, as well as rights for families in the event of his death. The second scope of the extension of the amended law makes it possible for persons with a proven status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons who do not have the possibility to claim damages and damages resulting from repression for anti-communist activities on the basis of existing legislation because they have not been interned or imprisoned. Within the framework of this extension, the projector has ensured that the rules of the amended law are in force in terms of compensation and redress, which must also be accepted in a positive way because of the expenditure of the state budget. This project was addressed to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for its first reading, which took place yesterday. The Commission accepted it without amendments, recommending its adoption to the Sejm. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of adopting a bill in accordance with the submission of a committee which is identical to the Senate proposal and does not make any amendments. However, I have a few questions here. I thought he was gonna be head of the Veterans' Office, 'cause I'm sure he could answer today about some statistics. Since I have a lot of these questions about statistics, I will try to use this time to ask questions as well. I'm going to ask other questions at the time of questioning. Minister! As regards the first group of persons to which the scope of this law is extended - Article. 8b, newly added to the law of the amended article. 8b - this is the case of a petition to the Senate Marshal, which the rapporteur has already mentioned here. The data from the justification indicate that these people were about 40, while there is no breakdown per category. Maybe the Minister will know. If not, I would ask you to answer in writing how many of these people come from the Stalinist period, which is the period immediately after the war, and whether there are, and if there are, how many such cases of children who have been declared invalid... against mothers who have been declared invalid are from the period of martial law. I'm asking because, because of my personal experience, I remember this story, like at first... Because there were two prisons, a Curly and a Fordon that were adapted - these cases - to receive such mothers. I remember that back then, in the underworld of solidarity, and especially among those who were hiding, there was immediately suspicion of their colleagues, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who went to a prison like this, they're probably pregnant. And then, after a few months, it turned out... For example, in my environment, I did not find one person who was either in Fordon or in Criszanec, who was pregnant, who would be pregnant or who would have had a baby at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u233	Are there such cases or not? That's one question. I'll be back in a series of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u234	Thank you very much. Please sign up nicely. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the Act amending the Act on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State, print No. 2063. The changes that have been made are completely legitimate and correct. They pursue the idea of restoring a sense of justice and moral and social order. It is right to include children born in prisons, who, in a metaphorically speaking, were wounded, or rather chained in communist shackles, were already in line and suffered innocently. along with the mothers. Undoubtedly, the traumatic condition and status of mothers have translated into their life situation since the beginning of their existence. However, a novelty is the extension of the Act's action to persons with confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons. In this respect, however, the question should be asked whether the mere confirmation of the opposition activist's status could suffice to seek redress or compensation, or whether this provision only applies to persons for whom there have been negative decisions resulting in repressive decisions in their lives. These people then meet the criteria of the oppressed. The case of a person being repressed is generally documented by decisions or judgments. It is much easier to define and define in case of possible damages claims. On the other hand, opposition activists, who were not formally repressed, although often repeatedly stigmatized by the backstage activities of the Security Service against them, also suffered significant losses in their lives due to their involvement and should also be compensated for the harm they suffered, including moral ones. This question is particularly justified in cases where a person has been forced to leave work with the appearance of legalism, but has thus lost his or her life stability, or his or her living conditions have deteriorated significantly, or has been relegated from school or university with all formal appearances of legalism or through the use of backstage mechanisms for SB and PZPR activities, thereby losing the possibility of further education or the process has been delayed for years, affecting his or her further life course. Another case concerns the person to whom the operational activities were carried out. It is about working with the backstage influence on her life career, which has resulted in a deterioration or loss of life prospects, as often the person learns only when he receives documents from the Institute of National Remembrance. Another case concerns a person in the workplace who could not develop, with all formal possibilities regarding achievements, due to the backstage and of course negative impact of the apparatus of repression of the People's Poland, the Security Service and the Polish United Workers' Party on her career. The next issue concerns a person who, as a result of the above-mentioned operational actions, also includes: in shaping a negative image, harassing or interfering in private life has suffered significant moral and mental health losses, which have resulted in a reduction or failure to achieve the attainable social position, status and standard of living. In all of these cases, it is about people with a proven opposition activist status but not formally repressed. From such examples as described above, the acts of the Communist Security Service are swarming. In the context of these cases, there is also another question: According to what criteria will the court calculate or estimate the damage suffered in order to calculate the compensation? I would ask applicants to consider the cases and take them into account during a possible further procedure. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u236	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a series of meetings with the circles of rural hostels from the municipality of Opoczno. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Moderna in relation to the report of the committee on the Senate draft law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being repressed as an activity for the independent existence of the Polish State. This project assumes the possibility of paying compensation to mothers' children who were unjustly repressed, and through these unfair sentences they had to spend part of their lives in places of isolation in prison. Many times our countrymen had to pay a great price for their patriotic attitude. Unfortunately, this price also had to be borne by the children of these people, and this is the greatest crime done to these heroes. This project goes against making amends to these people. I'm definitely gonna recommend to my club that we take this project. The Polish state must take care of its heroes and their families. It's our duty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the committee on the Senate bill. The aim of the project is to grant to children of mothers deprived of liberty on the basis of valid judgments which were held with their mother in prisons or other places of confinement or whose mother was in such places during pregnancy, entitled to compensation or compensation from the Treasury. Currently, persons who have been imprisoned with their mothers or whose mother has been in prison during pregnancy may not claim compensation or compensation for that period. The bill removes obstacles preventing claims for damages by persons deprived of this right in the years preceding the changes in the system in Poland. The draft law makes clear that where a judgment, on the basis of which the entitled child and his mother were to obtain compensation or redress, has been declared invalid prior to the entry into force of the proposed law, the claim for compensation or redress shall be lodged within 3 years of the entry into force of the law. The project envisages using the mechanism contained in the Law on the recognition of invalid judgments against a protected group of persons, so-called. a claim brought by a court of law. The second aspect of the legislative initiative involves broadening the scope of the Law on the recognition of nullity of judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the sake of the independent existence of the Polish State to include persons who have received the status of anti-communist opposition activist or a person being repressed for political reasons on the basis of the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those being repressed for political reasons. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the Polish state should make amends to those who were imprisoned as children in the past system with their parents. Add: With parents who were wrongly convicted, who were executed for political reasons. The judicial redress mechanism will ensure an adequate standard for this process of restoring justice to the victims, taking into account their individual experience in prison. However, at this point I cannot fail to claim memory until today unrehabilitated folks, also convicted for political reasons, also in falsified processes. I'm talking about those convicted in the Brest trial. Vincenty Witos, Adam Ciołkosz, Władysław Kiernik and many others are still waiting for rehabilitation. When we hear about the next rehab groups We see that there is no room for one of the fathers of Polish independence of Wincent Witos, we feel regret and bitterness. How else do you describe the situation in which the Polish state still maintains its judgments in a disgraceful Brest trial after 80 years? We hope that one day justice will also include those convicted in the 1930s of the folks and other opponents, that rehabilitation will not be selective or selective, just as at times, one can get the impression, this is the case. On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I request that the project be directed to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's draft law amending the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against those repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. Before I go on to discuss the proposed amendment, I must stress that the changes made are the result of an individual petition addressed to the Senate Marshal. This is very important because it shows that even the individual voices of citizens are important now and can be an inspiration to the positive actions of power that finally serves these citizens. In a normal democratic country, it is rare that pregnant women or mothers of minors are deprived of freedom. For the power of the Polish People's Republic there were no values which would not have been trampled. Women in prison have suffered many atrocities. Many of them became mentally ill after leaving their places of isolation. The amendment aims to remove barriers to compensation and redress by persons who were imprisoned in childhood with their mothers or whose mother was pregnant during imprisonment for political reasons. The proposed amendment extends the catalogue of persons who will be able to apply for compensation on a judicial basis for the damage suffered resulting from a judgment declared invalid. It should be pointed out that judgments which have been given by law enforcement, justice or other out-of-court bodies during the period from 1 January 1944 to 31 January 1989 are invalid are considered to be acts relating to the activity of an independent Polish state. The child of a person who has been wrongly convicted may apply for a judgment rendered invalid against the parent. Children who, together with their mothers, have been unjustly deprived of liberty in prison or elsewhere will be able to obtain compensation for the harm and damage suffered in connection with their stay in prison. The legislators provide for the possibility of redress in the event of the death of a child who may have been compensated, including at the request of his spouse, children and parents. The project also introduced the possibility of seeking compensation and redress from the State Treasury by anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The amended act aims to remove all obstacles which are related to the investigation of damages claims by persons deprived of this right in the years before the systemic changes in Poland. I must stress that the benefits obtained will take into account the individual experiences of people who have experienced various atrocities while in prison or in another place of isolation. It's a step towards justice. Let me stress once again: I am pleased that the ordinary citizens' petition has not been overlooked and has turned into a legislative initiative. I believe that the proposed amendments should be made. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u242	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask about the period during which the claim for compensation or redress can be made, i.e. this time 3 years after the entry into force of the law. I would like to ask you about how to inform or otherwise provide this information so that it can reach anyone who could make such a request. Is there a proposal to effectively reach out and communicate this information about the possibility of exercising this right, because, as we hear, this applies to about 40 people and perhaps it is necessary to make an effort even to reach those entitled individuals individually? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u244	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also have a question about another statistics, not about detailing the statistics, which is in the explanatory memorandum, but about the new statistics. And this is related to the case of Mirek Chojecki because this case is quite loud in the environment of democratic opposition, solidarity environments. The point is that Chojecki signed the Loyalty and therefore cannot be covered by the Act of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. On the other hand, he immediately told his environment and then acted actively. His merits for regaining independence are enormous, especially in terms of freedom of speech and the development of printing in Poland, because he probably developed it in a creative way. And I know there's more than one. Would it be possible to specify - probably also here the Veterans' Office would be the most appropriate - such statistics, how many such people are struggling with this, and it is a case of this kind, and they are deserved for opposition and solidarity, and because of the rigor of this law they cannot... Could such a bill be supported by the government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u246	Thank you very much. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u247	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for those questions that were addressed to me. I will also refer in part to what was said at the time, which was intended for particular clubs and wheels. I want to thank the senators, the ladies and gentlemen of the senators very warmly at first. This senate initiative should actually be voted by the Polish Parliament much earlier. As Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz said, there was such an initiative in the previous term. She's been laying low for a long time. Fortunately, today we can say that we are facing the idea of justice. These rules should actually be in public space and in the legal space a long time ago. I am pleased that all clubs and circles expressed their support here, including yesterday at the Justice Committee meeting. Because it is indeed unfair that someone could not demand compensation and compensation, for example. He was a minor and was in prison with his mother. It is quite remarkable that such a legal situation has been functioning until now. Therefore, I thank all the senators very much for taking this initiative, which I hope will find support for everyone here in the Polish Parliament. Maybe I won't refer in detail to what was said here by representatives of individual clubs. I will refer only to the question of the impact assessment of the draft regulation, the financial implications of the proposed law for the state budget, which on average will amount to around PLN 14 million per year. In a 3-year perspective, it's gonna be ok. 42 million PLN. We have divided these compensations and compensations into two groups. So in the first group total compensation is estimated at PLN 2.3 million. It is the children of mothers deprived of liberty who have been declared invalid. It's about 40 people. And in the case of about 700 people, i.e. people with a confirmed status of anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons, the total amount of these compensations should be about PLN 40 million. We have reserved in part 15 of the state budget, a part intended for general courts, about PLN 87.5 million. On the other hand, with regard to the effects of the entry into force of this amendment, we are often asked whether there will be money if there are real persons, right holders, if, from the subject-matter side, the persons concerned can apply for compensation or redress, or whether there will be money for it. Regardless of that, I can say that we have reserved this amount for damages and compensation. Of course, there are different titles, e.g. because of the length of proceedings, wrongful conviction, provisional arrest or detention of the person concerned. On the other hand, if this were to happen, that amount would not be enough, we would simply reach into the reserve of the state budget. They will absolutely have to find the means to pay these people adequate compensation or compensation. As for the specific number of people - this is what Mr Menyłko asked - detailed statistics, we do not really have such data as the Ministry of Justice. We may ask, if, of course, it is the will of the Member to prepare the detailed information that he has asked for, from certain specific periods, from Stalin's period, or from the time when there was martial law, and to provide accurate information to the Member. Of course, we're ready for this. I don't have that intel here. I only have OSR data, of course I can share them right now. It follows that this group had about 40 people, namely the children of mothers deprived of liberty, who were found to be invalid in prison or in another place of isolation, or whose mothers were in prison or in another place of isolation during pregnancy, i.e. that applies to usciturus, as Mr Matusiewicz pointed out here. This data is based on the information provided at the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and of the Family and Senior and Social Policy Committee of July 2015. As far as the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons is concerned, to this day it has granted powers to 37 people who were repressed, who were in prison with their mothers in communist times, of which 33 were born in prison, 3 were in prison as children, 1 was in prison only during prenatal periods. These people are 37. According to the information provided by the IPN, there are 354 women in this group, namely women who were deprived of freedom when they were in a place of isolation who were pregnant, had a child or were with children born free, with only 14 of them being annulled, i.e. in other cases. 340 women, no information was found regarding the annulment of the decision. As regards persons with a confirmed status as an anti-communist opposition activist or a person repressed for political reasons who have not been able to claim damages and harm, these persons are, as it is estimated, 600 and 700. These are the data that were provided by the Association on 13 December. They were obtained in April 2016 as part of the consultation of the Senate printing process. And I can quote such data to the Member at the moment. On the other hand, as far as these details are concerned, broken down into specific periods, we would simply have to reach for them to the authorities, Mr President. With regard to the question of Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska - this is a very important question, well-founded - how we will reach... Because the fact is, we have a clear article. 2: Where the judgment has been annulled before the date of entry into force of the Act, the claim for compensation or redress shall be made within 3 years of the date of entry into force of the Act. It seems that the first thing to do is to ask the associations, the various associations that called for this initiative to be taken. And that's the first move. Of course, it also depends on us and on the widest possible publicity associated with this bill. I can only appeal to the media for this, so that those people who have been unfairly treated so far will know that there is, of course, such a possibility. With regard to the second question - I do not know if I have understood correctly - this is a question of rather the law on anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed for political reasons. I think the Member was referring to this. For us, this bill is fundamental. I may have misunderstood that, but when I ask whether these people will be subject to this regulation at all, I answer: I don't think so. But, as I say, I don't know if you're right here. Got it. [[This is about 2015.]] I don't know if I understand exactly what you're saying. As far as these criteria are concerned, the court will determine them. We're wiping the trails right now. So I can't answer all the questions. Indeed, a few questions were raised during the legislative work. I think I'll be able to answer these questions here, including during the Senate work. I tried to answer as much as I could today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u248	Thank you, Minister. Mr Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor. Unless you don't want to, sir. [[In fact, the Minister has already exhausted the subject.]] Since the Minister has exhausted the subject, thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u249	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Senate of the Republic of Poland has taken a grand initiative to amend the Act on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against people being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The legislators want people who, as children, have been in prison with their mothers who have been declared invalid for the activity of the independent Polish state to claim compensation and compensation for the damage and damage suffered. The initiative was initiated by a petition that was very moving in its content, addressed to the Senate of the Republic of Poland by a person born in prison by a mother sentenced to death for such acts. It follows from the statement of reasons that the nullity has so far been found against a very small group of such persons. However, the number of cases of children born in prisons in situations referred to by the Act is much higher. My question: Will the procedures for the annulment of the judgment, often in the absence of specific documents, be overcome by the persons concerned and can they count on State aid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u250	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for European Union Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020 (prints 2168 and 2205). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u251	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is my great pleasure to present to you a report on the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on European Union Affairs on the draft resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. The Group of Members of Law and Justice tabled such a draft resolution to the Sejm in order to strengthen Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel's voice in the negotiations in the European Union. It is another such initiative in the Polish Parliament. In that term, too, such an initiative, such a resolution was taken. This was done by the opposition club, and the opposition club was then Law and Justice, in this coalition club term - and this is also Law and Justice. So that this initiative is taken by Members of the Law and Justice to strengthen. I remember, in that term of office, many members of the coalition ruling in the cloughs, criticized that Members had tabled such a resolution, but, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is only in order to strengthen these negotiations, so that this vote in the European Union - our Polish parliamentarians, Polish farmers - is strongly heard. These are very important matters because we are living in a European Union era and there is a common agricultural policy. This common agricultural policy, which is very much needed, is good for the country when good conditions are negotiated. We know that, in the course of the last negotiations, and also in the last few negotiations, these conditions for the Polish village were negotiated, I will tell you honestly, medium and not best, because we still do not have equal subsidies, these subsidies are still smaller in the European Union for Poland. [[But the report is to be a committee.]] Within the framework of these recent negotiations, money has also been transferred from Pillar II to Pillar I because it has been negotiated less than it should be negotiated. This way we have similar subsidies as before, but the second pillar is much worse. Here Polish farmers have lost, and I know that Members know it, but they do not communicate it well to the public. That is what this resolution is for, ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen these negotiations so that, on the next perspective, we can receive better, fairer conditions as Polish farmers and not be discriminated against because we are Polish farmers. What are the most important things? Firstly, we consider it to be the originator of this resolution, but it was also because I speak as the rapporteur of the committee, that there should be no payment from the national budget to agricultural policy, because we as a country have less opportunities. Rich countries can make more money then, and it's not fair again. And why are these subsidies so important? Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important thing too. Once, at one of the meetings with farmers, one farmer told me that we didn't want any subsidies as farmers to just make it worth our while. And really in the first place... And I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, you're also thinking that this farmer was talking, colloquially speaking, stupidity, that this is unfounded, what he said. But if we were to think more deeply, perhaps it is true that if there were not these subsidies all over the world, not only in the European Union, but in the whole world, for agriculture, then farmers would have better prices, this profitability of agriculture would have been much higher. But since they are all over the world, they are in America, they are in Japan, there are subsidies everywhere, there must be subsidies in the European Union and they must also be in the Union, in the EU countries. And they must be so that they do not discriminate against anyone, any farmer from any country. Right now it's like this. These negotiations were conducted - sorry to say, this may sound very politically, but we are in the Polish parliament, in the parliament, where there is politics - it was negotiated by representatives of the Polish People's Party, and those before the entrance, and those later which are in force, for the years 2014-2020. And it is sad, and it has also been mentioned in the committees several times that the same Members who have negotiated now go out to farmers and say: Law and Justice have promised and why doesn't it change? After all, we know that we are negotiating - dear gentlemen of the PSL - you know this - on a certain perspective. This perspective is in effect at the moment. And this resolution concerns a new perspective and we want to strengthen our Polish agricultural minister just for a new perspective, in negotiations on a new perspective. That is why this common policy is very important, as I said, about these national budgets. Direct payments. Dear, we really are Polish farmers through these two perspectives discriminated against. Because if we have less subsidies, how can we compete? And that's why the need is... Here let's put aside politics, all these beautiful populist voices, some on my left, let's put it aside, and in this matter let's take a common position that we have to do everything together, not throw away that you and those people have to do everything we can to compensate for direct payments. Because if we do not compensate for these direct payments, what will our competition be with the German farmer who has these higher payments, whether French or Italian? Italians have a slightly different production, but if higher they have direct payments. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland - in this resolution we write - also sees the need for an active policy to stabilise agricultural markets. Dear Members, the great problem of Polish agriculture is that Polish farmers cannot plan anything for the future, because there is no stability of agricultural markets. There is a need for a strong voice in Europe - our strong voice - on this subject, so that this agricultural market can be stable, so that we can use all the tools as parliamentarians here in Poland, but also in this European world, so that the farmer can know what awaits him, more or less plan what awaits him in 3, 4 years, 5 years. You can't plan for months right now, not just for years. It is therefore very important to work, to pursue an active policy to stabilise agricultural markets. There was also a big dispute in the committee between Members of the Law and Justice and Members of the Civic Platform, especially the Civic Platform, because we have written here: we propose that the income of small and medium-sized family farms be supported more. Suddenly, the Civic Platform with a few Members said: Why support only the income of small and medium-sized farms and not support the large ones? Firstly, dear country, Polish small and medium-sized farms are almost all farms as far as the European Union is concerned, because almost all of our farms, farms in Poland are included in the record of small and medium-sized farms, because that is exactly what our farms are. We are in the European Union, we have very fragmented farms, our farms with several or even several hundred hectares are included in this record. I think that in our discussion at the committee meeting, you Members, we sought one thing to support all Polish farms, but this is a provision that strengthens it. There's important information here. Ladies and gentlemen, 80%. the subsidies that go to agriculture in Europe - not in Poland but in Europe - receives only 20% farms, the biggest ones. We think this is good? I think it's wrong that we have to change that, that these subsidies... Only 20% of the surcharge takes the remaining 80% holdings. We need to work on this, we need to strengthen, support the income of small and medium-sized farms, and we as Poland, as our Polish agriculture, are almost all here. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland stresses the importance of rural development support policy within the framework of the common agricultural policy. This is the second pillar we're talking about. I have already mentioned that the second pillar was robbed by the former coalition of the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform and some of the money was transferred to direct subsidies. Why was this done? In order to show the normal farmer that there were no worse conditions negotiated, and in fact it was negotiated, because there was supposed to be 21 billion, and there were 18 left with peas, probably 18.6 billion PLN, and this is less money for Polish agriculture. Elections were coming up, and it had to be shown somehow, it was taken from Pillar II, paid for direct payments and thus the second pillar was robbed. The Polish farmer was robbed just a little bit of camouflage so there wouldn't be a fight. We therefore believe that these negotiations in the European Union need to be conducted very strongly, very strongly, very strongly, in order to negotiate the best possible conditions. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland can help with this. Dear Members, We can help if we only speak with one voice if we speak with a strong voice, with a Community voice, to support Polish agriculture. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As rapporteur, but also as a representative of the applicants, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this resolution so that in this important issue, which is Polish agriculture in the European Union, we speak with one voice, so that we can negotiate good, fair conditions for Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Only the Minister clapped.]] [[He had fun with what he said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u252	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on the contested resolution on the negotiation of the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020. We strongly support this resolution in which the Sejm addresses the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on key issues relevant to the future of agriculture after 2020. We support the need to maintain strong budget support, the Community's common agricultural policy. The fight for a large budget, which will respond to all the challenges facing agriculture, is difficult given the country's reluctance to increase the percentage of GDP allocated to agriculture as well as issues related to Brexit. In this context, we do not agree to the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. Those who have benefited from this Community policy for decades may now be willing to abandon the Community nature by passing funding rules on to the Member States, but Poland cannot agree to this possibility. Of course, the possibilities of support from national budgets should be considered, but not of moving away from the common agricultural policy. We also see the need to reconcile certain antagonistic problems that are in agriculture, to ensure food security, but also social expectations for agriculture, environmental requirements included in European Union legislation, economic pressures related to globalisation processes, liberalisation of the European Union's trade policy, as well as individual agreements between Western European countries and their former colonies, which open the European Union to products from other continents. We want to ensure a level playing field in the single market, equalising the level of direct payments after 2020 because, as the applicant's representative has already said, this is one of the fundamental elements of agricultural competitiveness in the common market. This is a question of stabilising markets also by reducing the risks borne by farmers, strengthening the strength of farmers in the market chain. What is important should not be discussed in Poland due to the nature and structure of Polish agriculture, special support for small and medium-sized farms. This should be outside any political discussion. The common agricultural policy, too, is the second pillar of this policy, i.e. rural development, that is, strengthening those processes that make people want to settle in the countryside and implement their life aspirations there. We want to strengthen the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki in these negotiations, so we believe that the Sejm, Parliament should strengthen this kind of [[♪ The bell ♪]] adopt a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u254	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civic Platform will support the draft resolution on the European Union's common agricultural policy after 2020. We will support this project because we want Polish farmers to receive as much money as possible. We expect the Government of Law and Justice to negotiate an even better budget for the common agricultural policy after 2020 than the Coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that for 2014-2020, the government of PO-PSL won EUR 42.4 billion for the Polish village. We will support the government in the negotiations with the European Union and we firmly trust that these negotiations must be successful. Why should this budget for the common agricultural policy after 2020 be as good as possible? This is mainly due to the enormous needs of Polish farms. We would like to point out that, in view of the growing disease of African swine fever, pig holdings will bear additional costs associated with the implementation of the bioinsurance programme throughout the country. Let me remind you that it will cost about 30,000. PLN per farm, including 15 000. PLN for the security and adaptation of livestock buildings and 15 thousand. zł for purchase of disinfectants, mats, protective clothing, etc. Important information for pig farmers is that the Ministry of Agriculture has announced that due to African swine fever about 15% agricultural holdings will have to give up pork production, which means that the pig population in the country will be reduced by around 1.5 million units, which in turn means that tens of thousands of farms will be destroyed. The situation in the Polish village has not been so difficult since the 1990s, so the government will have to face this difficult situation. We are therefore convinced that this budget for a new perspective must be as high as possible to cover farmers' demand for agricultural production. And that is why the Civic Platform wishes the government success in negotiations for the good of the Polish village. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u256	Thank you very much. And now I invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Kukiz club15 on the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In the first sentence, I can assure you that Kukiz15 will support this resolution because its content is fairly satisfactory. Why don't I tell you in a minute? There is no doubt that these issues we are talking about here, namely ensuring a level playing field in the single agricultural market, equalising direct payments... This is what I'm going to refer to right now, because this is really the part that worries the most - evening the level of direct payments, because it's not clear what this is equal to: whether it's equal to the average, whether it's to Germany or the Netherlands. Let me remind you that the Polish farmer only gets 207 euros to 1 ha, and the Dutch farmer gets 407, Belgian - 395, Greek - 394 etc., etc. I therefore hope that this equalisation will be equal to the level of support for a Belgian or Dutch farmer rather than the average, because we must be based on objective criteria that should be followed by this calculation, and objective criteria are solidarism, one of the fundamental principles of the European Union. So the income of Polish farmers and the income of those farmers should be very similar, we must also pay attention to the area of agricultural land, as well as the number of people employed in agriculture. Just now, a representative of the Civic Platform was empathizing with huge numbers. These figures result from the fact that Poland is large and we have many inhabitants and many agricultural areas. But if we see what has recently been negotiated - it is precisely possible to see it in the penultimate issue of Top Agraru, there is a graph: farmers' income against average domestic income - then we can say that this is just a graph of shame for those who negotiated it. Polish farmers have several times less support than farmers in Western Europe. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to President Telus for the applause, but I would like to see that chart no more... [[So do we.]] ...that you, now negotiating, would simply negotiate fair terms on the terms I was just talking about. [[Can you help?]] Of course, Mr. Chairman. You know I'm helping you all the time, which is why I'm telling you all this. And there's one more thing I want to say. Cumulated support for agriculture and food production per capita - the United States subsidizes agriculture more than the European Union, which goes to a dead end several times. We're gonna be buying food from China in a minute, 'cause [[♪ The bell ♪]] China is currently subsidising food production not much less than Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u258	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Modern Club will always support any acquisition of additional funds from the European Union, but then we will always settle: firstly, from negotiations, secondly, from spending these funds, and thirdly, from their efficiency, because the Polish village needs important changes, and that also needs to be assessed. But let us remind, like Mr Telus today, during the campaign and in her exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło thundered at all possible parties, that it cannot be that Polish farmers have worse working conditions than farmers in other countries of the European Union. It's time for the government to show what they can do. While preparing for the debate on a new allocation of funds, it is worth setting specific objectives. And to this day we have not actually heard from the PiS what are the goals, what do you want to equalize, what levels to reach. It is therefore worth assessing the current situation. Of course, we have a global amount, and then we have a reference to a hectare, but we can't rely on both of these, because we can't help but notice that the perspective to the perspective has been able to negotiate 7 billion more. So what I personally, as a Member of the Republic of Poland sitting on the Committee on Agriculture, expect from the government, is that, if it was wrong then, you will bring at least 100% more, or around €15 billion more, [[Applause]] So instead of 32 billion 47 billion. It should also be said that, in the last perspective, countries such as Poland, but also Latvia, Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania have received a nominally higher budget and such countries as Germany, Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands, Ireland and Sweden have fallen. And also what I expect from the government is that this trend will remain that Germany gets 12%. less than in the past. So now you should get them to get another 12%. less and gave it to countries like Poland, since it is [[Applause]] It's so important to you. It is also worth noting that in the second pillar Poland gained the most resources for development. And what I wish for is that this position No.1 of Poland in the next hand will also be preserved, the position of the leader. So I ask that you do not return to the country with a lower heading than the number one in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. [[Applause]] Because... [[And now?]] ...the Polish budget is the fifth agricultural budget in the European Union, following the budgets of countries such as France, Germany, Spain and Italy. And what I'm looking for from the PiS government is for you to come up with number one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u260	Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few facts first, because there's something that needs to be corrected. The government in which we were negotiated and led the Polish farmer to receive 265 euros per hectare, and this is the European average. We started negotiations from the level of 190 euros, we managed to raise this to 265, to get a European average. In your election campaign, Mr. Minister, you promised to double the European subsidies. You didn't add that in a new perspective, you didn't add that in a few, several years. You said: yes, as soon as we win the election, we will double the subsidies for Polish farmers. It hasn't happened so far, and it's been two years. We will always support the government's actions - regardless of what the government is, we will support them - to raise subsidies for Polish farmers to double them so that it is 530 euros, as much as you promised in the election campaign. 530 euros. And I'm not talking about it here, [[Applause]] that the young farmer in Poland gets up to 400 euros of subsidies, so if we want to take your words literally, it should be 800 euros for this young farmer. But make it 530, as much as you promised. There are countries with higher subsidies. They have already been mentioned. There are countries that have similar ones in Poland, the same ones. This is Austria and Ireland. And there are countries like the UK, Spain or Portugal that have lower subsidies. Of course, let us aspire to the best ones, to those who have the biggest subsidies. I hope that this resolution, which we will support, will also involve a change in the behaviour of the PiS in the European Parliament, because I have the impression that you are always making very relevant, elevated resolutions on support for policy at Brussels level, but when it comes to voting in the Euro-European Parliament, it is different. You do not even support a resolution that talked about maintaining the financing of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. In the October vote on the resolution, the PiS voted against. What, you don't want at least the same amount of money for common agricultural policy and cohesion policy? Nor have you supported other issues at European level or abstained from voting, such as the case concerningreta. You didn't want the national Parliament to decide that, you just put it on the European Parliament. It shows. [[Applause]] Your hypocrisy. Here you are brave, but when it comes to negotiations in Brussels, either you are not voting, or you are abstaining, or you are voting against Poland, because voting against the resolution on maintaining cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy was voting against the state of Polish agriculture and Poland. We want to strengthen your resolution and make an amendment saying that the Polish Sejm obliges the Polish government to double the direct payments. This is a great reinforcement, Minister, for you. [[Applause]] This is a bargaining chip in conversations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the Prime Minister. This is a tender card in talks with the head of the European Commission. This is your bargaining card, this is your strong position in the European negotiations. We'll support you. And this is an expression of our greatest, immense support. It's about doubling the subsidies. [[Applause]] European for Polish farmers. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. However, the Minister has also come forward. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that it has prepared a draft resolution, and thank you that most clubs support this resolution. In the first part of my speech, I will talk about those priorities that the government is adopting and the comments that we have made to the Commission's Communication, which was announced on 29 November, on the future of the common agricultural policy. The issue of a new model of implementation. A national strategic plan is proposed to introduce other rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy by setting the objectives for which the national State is to adapt the instruments. Here we took action in the area of voivodships, preparing an evaluation or analysis of SWOT and directions of intervention. Now we would like to work together with the voivodship marshals, using the means of cohesion policy, to establish these tasks as regards the next financial perspective. As far as direct payments are concerned, we are talking about full compensation for direct payments. We oppose the renationalisation of agricultural policy. We are in favour of maintaining the SAPS system, for maintaining production-related payments - I will remind you that 15% the envelopes concerned - and the focus of support on small and medium-sized family farms. The next area is environmental issues. Here we do not agree to increase environmental requirements without providing funding. With regard to rural support - this was the case - a strong second pillar and the commitment of cohesion policy to support the agri-food sector and rural areas is needed. As regards generational change, incentives for new farmers, we are talking about maintaining the current instruments for support for young farmers. However, as we know, in his local government program - here Mr Kosiniak-Kamysz presented this program - PSL proposes to expropriate the hosts to 10 ha by purchasing from them farms by the state and then transferring these land to lease. It is nothing more than a return to those activities which consisted in expropriating Polish peasants. With regard to knowledge transfer and innovation - this is an important area - we have the introduction of a support system for small and medium-sized farms for knowledge transfer and innovation. Then risk management. This too was very little in the communication. Introduction of instruments for intervention on agricultural markets, including safety net issues. Other issues we address are the issue of trade agreements that cannot adversely affect our market, as well as food waste. This is our position. It will be accepted by the government, the permanent committee has accepted it. This position will be presented during further negotiations. As far as negotiations are concerned, there is an exchange of views between different countries for the time being. In the European Commission, we have been able to sign a joint agreement within the Visegrad Group extended by three countries, and now we are working on a common position with regard to the Baltic countries. I also had meetings with Spain, and now I will have a meeting with France. It's all going on. The main moment is May when the European Commission announces the financial framework. Here it is the competence of the Prime Ministers, the European Council. Then we have individual envelopes. I think it should be beneficial for us in some way. Now I want to address the voices of individual clubs and thank them for supporting such a resolution, because she is needed, but I would like to present a few things and correct them. This is the second time I have appealed to the honor of the activists of the Polish People's Party. I said that in my previous speech. Mr President, show us in the speeches of our activists or my one sentence in which we talked about doubling the subsidies. If you show it, I'll apologize, but here you should apologize and not lie in the Seym. I ask you, sir, to introduce me, to point out where it was said who said it. Because, you know, it doesn't suit the people who represent the Polish countryside. 530 euros. Again, you've come up with a number, you've come up with a number, you've repeated it. Tell me in which of our programming documents... Because we have an agricultural program, and now we have an action programme for the entire department. The Polish People's Party does not have such a program and repeats untruth. This is not true, too, EUR 265 per hectare, that the Polish farmer now has such subsidies. Well, tell me the decisions that are made - on the basis of your findings - so that the 265 euro is the average payment. There is also a need to address these doubts, the irregularities that are repeated, concerning - Mr Plocke said so; I do not know where Mr Plocke got it - 42.4 EUR billion. I remember these amounts perfectly well, that is 18.8 billion for area payments and 9.6 billion for Pillar II. Let me remind you: in 2005, when we accepted - it was in London - this financial perspective, that for the second pillar was EUR 14.3 billion, now we have 5 billion less. So that these are facts and you can't argue with that. On the other hand, 18.8 billion was a failure and this will have its consequences. You must understand that now at the start of negotiations, the partners will say: you got 18.8, but we owned envelopes of 3 billion per year, because in 2004 it was established that the annual envelopes for Poland were over 3 billion euro; this was obviously dependent on a few factors. We started to receive from 725 million, reaching an envelope of 3 billion at the end of 2013, and only the adoption of such an envelope in payments for this perspective resulted in no reduction in these area payments. Of course, Mr Telus is right. 2.4 were taken billions and now the question arises as to whether such a policy should continue. Mr Plocke said that there is a difficult situation in the Polish village, it is the worst since 1990. I would like to remind you that at the time, the rulers, supported by the current Platform... First in the '90s. Mazowiecki released troops and police to peasants, then in 1999 there were riots. We haven't had that yet, which is why we need to be honest about it. However, as regards the situation in the Polish countryside, in terms of social assistance, the Platform has never made such a move to transfer almost 14 billion to Polish children in order to raise minimum pensions to PLN 1000 for 350 thousand during the year. in KRUS to introduce free insurance for farmers' children up to 16 years old. These actions will continue. There is this production, profitability since 2015 has been significantly improved, although we have recently had disruptions in the pigmeat market, but today we also have signals that prices are rising by 7 and 8 euro cents. I believe that after this January-February breakdown, it has been observed for 20 years that it is so-called. Hole, it's going in the right direction. In virtually all agricultural markets this situation is not the worst, it is much better than when the Polish People's Party and the Civic Platform gave power. As far as equal payment is concerned, the system must be clearly stated that there are three area payment schemes in Europe. In Poland there is a SAPS system, and we want to defend it for practical reasons, because we have worse or better, but we have a prepared IT system, while in other countries there is a historical payment, which then divided by the amount gives such rates when it comes to 1 ha. Here it is, ladies and gentlemen, about envelopes, about an envelope to divide. This envelope is intended to cover the number of hectares. Of course, then the envelope divided by the number of hectares is to give this... If we are talking about the European average now, it is almost 270 euros per hectare. Mrs Kloska from Modern Europe said to settle the negotiations. Of course, that is why there is opposition to sum up the government's activities or the ministry of the Minister of Agriculture. This debate should take place as often as possible, and we are not afraid of this debate. If anything is wrong with me, I'm always ready to admit it. One thing is certain that I will be implementing the program that the government is presenting, and this spirit of resolution in relation to several objectives is the most important. Ms Kloska said that in the previous perspective 7 billion more were negotiated than in the previous one. That's not true, because these billions are much, much less. Like I said, 15 or 5 billion when it comes to Pillar II. And the pillar is not comparable, because since 2004 we had an incomplete envelope paid, there was only 720, there was 25%, then 30%, 35%, until the level of payment reached 100%. , just not up to 100% European Union payments but up to 100% a negotiated envelope. The fact that Poland received the most on the second pillar was due to the fact that we gave, Mrs, our market, the whole European Union gained access to the Polish market, very lymphatic. The policy is to increase the quality of life in Poland. This is measured by gross domestic product. In the last perspective, this has increased by a few percent, and now it will also increase. The measures under Pillar II will be planned to be reduced after assessing the standard of living in the Polish countryside. You have to consider that, too. So that once again I thank you sincerely and we are ready, I am ready to present the information whether it is in committee or in the Sejm forum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u264	Thank you, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are all in favour of the negotiations that the country is conducting on the next perspective of EU funds being the most advantageous for Polish agriculture. Fingers crossed for that. On the other hand, I admire your hypocrisy. Here you are voting against Poland and against the funds for farmers, as you would like for Polish agriculture and for Polish farmers, and at the same time four months ago in the European Parliament you voted against Poland and against the funds for farmers, because you did not support the PiS resolution in which MEPs oppose cuts in agricultural policy and cohesion policy, i.e. they wanted to increase the funds for subsidies to farmers after 2020. I wanted to ask you from PiS: Why did the MEPs vote against this resolution, namely against Polish farmers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u266	Thank you, too. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I think that there is no dispute as to the general framework for the draft resolution on the rules for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, but I wanted to ask the Minister about the strategy for the new financial perspective for 2021/2028 in the context of the ongoing discussion, the link between the use of EU funds and compliance with the principle of solidarity and the rule of law. The EU Justice Commissioner is working on this proposal, specifically to make funds dependent on the existence of an independent justice system. You know, Minister, that because of Brexit, it is unlikely that the budget will be kept at the level of the previous perspective. Hence these proposals to reduce agricultural funds and cohesion policy by around 5 to 10%. Greater resources are aimed at R &amp; D, defence or migration policies. Hence my question. How does the government intend to obtain comparable resources for cohesion policy and agricultural policy? Who is our ally except the Visegrad Group? Who will support us in implementing our negotiating strategy if it exists, of course, if it is to respect the rule of law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u268	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, when it comes to the statements of the club heads, it's been clear what our goal is and that we're all going in the same direction. Nevertheless, I will allow myself, Minister, to draw attention to the facts. If we say so all the time that we care and care for farmers, how do we suggest or consider, in the rapporteur's statement, to exclude the part of the subsidies that comes from the state budget from the farmers' subsidies? I ask: Isn't agriculture a branch of our economy? Then what are we gonna do about the miners? Further, the rapporteur also spoke so widely - I see that he is a farmer, that he feels this climate, so there are more of us - that it would be possible in our country to produce without subsidies. In our country, yes, but how do we do it in other countries? Who's gonna do it and what kind of mechanisms? How to ensure price relations between inputs and sales prices? It's a theoretical question. I'm glad we all want more subsidies. And I wish you everything you're lucky, but remember, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that this does not end as the 2005 sugar quota negotiations. I believe it won't end like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u270	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u271	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was happy to sign the draft resolution, which supports the Polish Minister of Agriculture, and supports the Polish government in negotiations with the European Union, with the European Commission in terms of the new financial perspective for the years 2020 to 2027. During the committee meeting we strengthened the record of this Polish message supporting the Polish minister, the Polish Prime Minister. And it's a good thing that it did, and it's a good thing that we're hearing these statements of support and assistance here. However, I believe that this support, which will certainly be a great help to the Polish government, is not all that we should still use and mobilise all possibilities of supporting the Polish government in these negotiations, I am thinking of our representatives in the European Parliament, in the EU institutions. Can we count on you, Minister, to support your actions, the Prime Minister, to negotiate these funds for the common agricultural policy by our representatives, who are, for example, on the European Parliament's agricultural committee? We have significant representatives there, we have the chairman of this committee. Have good relations been established over the past two years in the ministry, for example, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with this committee, with this president, who would hope that there is a chance that this will support your actions and actions of the Polish government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u272	Thank you. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The extent of direct support has a significant impact on the competitiveness of agriculture and this must be sought. This is also a Community character, because, as I said before, countries that have benefited a lot from it for decades, of course, now would like to be renationalised. Unfortunately, such voices are also voiced by politicians from Poland, among others. Mr Czesław Siekierski, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament, mentioned recently that renationalisation would not be a bad thing. I very much respect the Member, but I wonder if he spoke on his behalf, did not think about whether it was a PSL position at the moment, talking about renationalisation. I would also like to strengthen the Minister's opinion here, and no one in Law and Justice has ever said that there is a possibility of doubling direct payments. If you can prove it, you have such arguments, then pass them on. You can't lie in this kind of discussion. I would like to say that the competitiveness of agriculture is not just a matter of resources, of public transfers to agriculture. It's about organizing the market well. Farmers would like to live from what they produce, what they sell on the market, from the services they provide on the market, including social services, and not just from transfers. Therefore, these negotiations are extremely important, both in the area of the financial framework and in all the regulations that are necessary for Polish farmers to make the right use of their potential. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't really know where to start, because here we heard a few things about the minister's support, about the amount of payouts. The rapporteur spoke about the compensation of direct payments, the Minister used an even weaker term: a certain equalisation of direct payments. I am very dissatisfied with the currently negotiated amount of support, i.e. out of these 207 euros, and I say this on the basis of the Sejm Analysis Office's publishing house, so it is a reliable source. Of course, we don't know how to negotiate this. I hope that all countries, all farmers will be equally supported, because why should there be a difference in support from our common EU budget for Belgian, Dutch or Danish farmers from support for Polish farmers, especially if we take into account objective criteria and the principle of solidarity? I would like to hear, Minister, below what amount you will not agree to sign an agreement on the common agricultural policy. Is it going to be the 270 euro that the Minister was talking about, or 300 euro, or is it going to go that way that we won't agree to get less than German farmers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! To be honest, when I sit and listen to this debate, I feel that the Minister is already looking for reasons for which he will not be able to negotiate a higher budget for Polish farmers in the next perspective. In fact, we have heard more explanations as to why this will be difficult than any specific information for which the Polish government will fight in this perspective. There have been specific questions about what the government will be equal to - because I would like us to be equal to Malta and Cyprus, where the surcharge per hectare is 448 euros per hectare and 429 euros per hectare. But looking at the last position of Law and Justice in the European Union, I wonder how you want to negotiate any higher budget for Polish farmers, since you can't even keep the position of Vice-President of the European Parliament. Unfortunately, that's the sad truth. As long as, of course, we vote in favour of this resolution - as I say, we have high expectations of the government - as much as I highly doubt what budget you will bring. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u278	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you have modern support. The modern one supports you, the modern one supports you, and I am very pleased that you will be here, from this speaker, confirming that you will fight for very good conditions. You said that these previously negotiated were weak, so we expect - and we employ you - that the ones you negotiate will be better, and preferably much better. We're counting on you to return with the shield, not the shield. That is your task, we will account for it, and we expect that the results of the actions you are going to take will be much better than those that were before. Because you promised. But I have one more question for you: How will you think about mountain areas? It is obvious - e.g. just like in our country, in Beskidy - that there are farms that operate in very difficult areas, and it is much more difficult to manage in mountain areas than in lowland areas. Can mountain areas therefore be counted on, I would say, such treatment, which will correspond to the scale of the difficulties of their activities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u280	Thank you. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u281	The corrigendum was supposed to be there, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u282	Exactly, sir, will you consummate, so to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u283	If I extend it a little longer, will you excuse the marshal and let me finish two sentences?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u284	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will start by correcting it, but it will also express my thanks for getting acquainted with the program of the Polish People's Party. Minister, thank you very much. This is the best program for local elections, undoubtedly. You have a chance to vote for us, too, and being part of a party doesn't limit you in any way in the local elections. It's worth getting to know the whole program. There are no things you said there to support young farmers, but we explained that. As for the pre-election commitment, I will remind you of the words that she made, then the candidate for Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydlo on 18 July in Odrywola. I quote: If the PiS wins the elections, it will lead to Polish farmers receiving the same subsidies as farmers in other countries of the European Union. Just now, Mrs Hennig-Kloska and Mr Sachajko presented where, in which countries there are any subsidies. This doubling wasn't a meeting of the upper limit anyway, e.g. when it comes to reaching the level of Maltese or Cypriot subsidies, not even to the level of Dutch subsidies. So this doubling is still a lower bar than the one you set for yourself. Prime Minister Szydło has set you this bar. I don't think you agree. You haven't answered any of the questions, so I'll repeat again: Why do the Euro MPs of PiS vote against [[♪ The bell ♪]] a resolution so important for Poland on maintaining the common agricultural policy, on maintaining cohesion policy, why do they vote against? Is it your strategy that in the Polish Parliament you present a good resolution, which we want to support, we even want to strengthen it with the commitment of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the government's commitment to double the subsidies in negotiations with Europe... This is really a hand we have drawn to you, a desire to help, a desire to support the Minister, but there must also be support from the MEPs of the PiS, and we do not see this support so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u286	Thank you very much. List of Members enrolled in... Oh, excuse me. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u287	Thank you so much for seeing me. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Briefly, because there are words here that have to be commented on in some way. Firstly, the statement made by Mr Modernzna about the fact that the modern one will support the Minister in his efforts to compensate for the subsidies or simply raise them for Polish farmers. I think that there is one request for a modern: that it may not support as much as it simply did not disturb, because we know very well that in our actions within the European Union Modern has repeatedly shown that this is what we should ask for - that there should be no such negative messages in terms of action for the sake of the Polish state right. [[Why do you vote against?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has come down here many times, it has been raised by a Member from the Polish People's Party, but also by a Member from the Civic Platform, the question of why Polish Euro MPs from Law and Justice voted yes and no different as regards agricultural issues. I think the Minister is about to answer that question. But there is a much more important question, Commissioner, why in a shameful way Members of the Civic Platform, these six, voted in favour of punishing Poland. So when we talk about hypocrisy, about hypocrisy, I'd like to... [[What does one have to do with the other? Not those things.]] Very much, Commissioner, has one to another. The Member asks... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because this is the Polish state right. I would like you to remember this also in the discussion about Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not a word about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u288	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[I'm sorry about the formality.]] I'm afraid I have to close the discussion. [[My name was.]] [[Voice from the room: There wasn't!]] [[How can you not? Mrs Chmiel was.]] [[Please focus on your speeches.]] Excuse me, Minister Krzysztof Jurgel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, maybe I should start with things that Mr Kosiniak-Kamish once again raised. Mr President, in this local government programme, in point V. 1 says you want to buy 10 hectare farms from older farmers and transfer them to the Treasury and then lease them out. This is a method in my opinion... Since five years ago, ten years ago, you guys talked about sharing land and selling, I don't think that's right. However, in order to understand what compensation is all about, you also need to know the mechanism for establishing the envelope. In 2003, as you guys negotiated, the rule was that up to a hectare of crops where... On average, these wheat tables were taken from 60 PLN per hectare times the number of hectares and the reference yield. It is no longer justified that it was a matter of historical values. At that time, we succeeded, taking into account all these crops, in EUR 3 billion. You guys agreed to get 25% of this and even it up for 10 years. And this is not about the fact that in other countries, Greece, there are more subsidies. Where did this come from? That's because there used to be production subsidies, up to a kilo of meat. At some point in time, when the aid scheme was applied, this was added up and it turned out that this historical value was determined on the basis of what the farmer on the holding in question received under the aid for what he had sold. It's about making the same kind of production, for example. As we speak of cereals, the same amount was up to a hectare. So you have to understand what the mechanism is, and then you'll understand what it's all about equalizing subsidies. Mr. Suchoń asked about mountain areas. This is stage two. There is always an envelope, then every year there are rules for dividing this envelope in the national system. And the government will have the right, for example. give additional subsidies for some kind of production, in this case in mountain areas, due to difficulties. This is a national decision, an independent decision, and it is not negotiated. As for what the government is going to fight for, I have already said in response to the first question that it is a matter of abolishing the historical determination so that there is a uniform rule for a hectare with the same type of production. After all, we know how much grain we grow in Poland, in what area, we know as well as in Italy, in France. The idea is that these types of production should be adjusted in terms of subsidies. And then if we can figure out... There were olives - there were other subsidies. It can't be what you think it's going to be here, but then it's going to have to be divided. She's not going to work out in this area, that's a little bit of an understanding. Then the question of President Sachaika. I have already said that there was once a historical determination, and this is about changing the system and making up for these subsidies in this area. Mr. Ardanowski was right to see... The government is working on it, it's organizing the market. We are introducing a law on farmers' cooperatives so that competition between supermarkets and producers is increasing. Can we count on the support of parliamentarians? I think so. Then it'll be called. trilog. The Commission will present a legislative package in June. There are three bodies: the Commission, the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament must come to an agreement here. As regards Mr Kotowski's statement on the Polish budget, our government has declared that if Brexit reduces the amount of funds for the common agricultural policy by some billions, this can be covered by national budgets. But this is a one-off action by increasing the ratio in terms of the share of GDP in the EU budget. And that's now being negotiated. Just to remind you that financial matters are the domain of the European Council and this is how it is implemented. Once again, the PSL representative for another lie here... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: The Lord closes with these words.]] No, I'm not. I'm consciously speaking. It's about negotiating sugar quotas. During the 2006 negotiations, sugar quotas were not the subject of these negotiations. Gentlemen of the PSL, really read these studies or expertise that are. No amount was negotiated during the negotiations in 2006. It was only in 2008 that Minister Grad and Minister Sawicki led to the fact that 360 thousand. t has been reduced in Poland. With regard to whether the outcome of the negotiations depends on the justice system, these positions, which are presented by individual states, are not addressed in the Commission's communication. I do not think that the amount of funds is dependent on an assessment from this point of view. So those were the basic questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you for your comprehensive response.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u290	Thank you, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u291	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, I will try to address some of the comments that have been made here. I'm going to start by explaining something because the PSL Member didn't understand me. He was talking about how I said there shouldn't be any subsidies. I told you it was one of the farmers and then I said - if you were listening well, you would have caught it - that it would have been good if there hadn't been any subsidies all over the world. And we know that all countries apply agricultural subsidies: and the United States, and Japan and, as we have heard, China. At this point it would be unfair for us, and it would not be possible for Polish agriculture to continue without subsidies, and this must be said clearly. I think you misunderstood me or didn't quite hear what I was trying to say. I also want to refer to Mr Władysław Kosiniak and his very exciting speech. He's very excited about what he's saying. I think you're a very intelligent man. As far as I know, you've graduated from medicine, and medicine ends with people whose intelligence is at least above average, unless we're in situations like this that my father bought some kind of... But here I don't think you are, because I know you're an intelligent man, but your hypocrisy is very far-reaching. Maybe I'll ask you if you know a guy named Jarosław Kalinowski. Do you? As you know... I think you do. Anyway, which one? Mr. Stanislaw Kalemba? I would like to remind my dear gentleman that they were the ones who negotiated the first perspective and the second perspective. And whatever it is, I think both gentlemen are PSL. It was the PSL that negotiated the first perspective and the second perspective that you negotiated. I remember - at that time I was a very young man, now I don't think I'm as young as Mr.Jarosław Kalinowski went out and said that there was only this first perspective, and in the second perspective we will have an investigation process and we will have equal subsidies in the countries of the European Union. He lied to us, lied to me, the young farmer then. Not just me, because I'm like the symbol of those farmers who were lied to by Jarosław Kalinowski, whom I think you know as a member of PSL. You're the ones who lied to Polish farmers. You've been lying to them, and you've still been lying to them. What you did today is the greatest hypocrisy. How can you be so hypocritical? I understand politics, I was in opposition too, I understand even the criticism of the government, but so much so that today you're filing a request for double payments? You know what, sir? You're the ones who negotiated two perspectives, and you're coming out today and making that conclusion? It is also a matter of saying that the Members of the Law and Justice have promised that once they have power, they will even up the subsidies. I'm telling you, I know... I think you're smart, and I think you know that. You're just saying that specifically to lie to the public, and that's the worst thing that could be to lie from that speaker. I think you know that you're negotiating for the next perspective, that you can't be in the process. We promise that we will negotiate compensation. You lied because you admitted that you lied that one of the Members of the Law and Justice was talking about doubling the payments. It's just hypocritical use. I really do, sir. I like you. It doesn't suit you to play like that. It's just... I want to remind you of one more thing. That is, that Polish People's Party, apart from those two prospects that negotiated, the cakes were shared. I do not know if you remember how Kalemba ate the cake and talked about how well he negotiated it for Polish agriculture, cheating Polish farmers, and this is what he says to this day. But besides, you and your ancestors here in the Sejm ruled 20 years of Polish agriculture. For the situation which is in Polish agriculture, you have been responsible for 20 years. And today you're going out and saying, "Double subsidies, we're going to strengthen you to double." This is hypocrisy. I hope, very much, that the Polish farmer of such fairy tales that you tell and such low political tricks will not buy. Next thing. It is said that we have an ever weaker strength in the European Parliament. Dear Members of the Civic Platform, you have called off the Vice-President of Parliament. [[That's right.]] ...it's your voices. And you are weakening the Polish position in the European Union. You voted to punish Poland. It's a shame, it's a shame. You should be ashamed of your fellow Members in the European Parliament. How can you go to the European Union and vote against Poland? It's a shame, isn't it? [[How can you do that? How did you vote on the constitutional committee four days ago?]] To complain about Poland? But it's... [[In the Constitutional Commission, as you voted...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u292	Member, that is enough. Mr President, don't raise your emotional level either, because it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u293	One more thing. Mrs Kloska said 25%. Rather, she talked about subsidies in the second perspective higher than subsidies in the first perspective. Another such manipulation of public opinion, information. Well, it is true that 7 billion were between the first and second perspectives, but, as I said, both were negotiated primarily by Members of the Polish People's Party and they negotiated this mechanism of access. I think everyone knows that this mechanism of access was due to the fact that we started, as Polish agriculture, to receive only 25% of the subsidies. And it was, it was that access mechanism, because we were going to get to 100%. EU subsidies and subsidies were to be compensated, which, of course... Like I said, Mr. Kalinowski lied. And we know that if there was this mechanism of access, then when it comes to the first perspective, it was lower, and when it comes to the second - higher. This is not your success. It just happened because there was this access mechanism. As I said at the beginning: in that parliamentary term, we submitted this as Members of the opposition, and the coalition Members were against it at the time. In this term of office, we are putting this together as Members of the governing party to strengthen it. I thought that in the case of this resolution we would be above the hypocrisy that has been made here - that we would support the Polish government, in fact support the Polish government, not make amendments concerning doubling. Why didn't you file it on the committee just now? Just to show up in front of the cameras? I thought that when it comes to working on this resolution, which we are making as members of the governing party, we will all go through it in order to build this community, to fight for Polish interests, for the interests of the Polish farmer in the European Union. And here I see that in every case, whatever this case is, politics is taking over, and it's an ugly policy, a policy that is dictated by hypocrisy. And it hurts me very much, because how can we fight something in the European Union if we, in the Polish Parliament, are so different in these important matters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u294	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, as corrected. I allow you to speak because I am not losing hope that you will stop yelling from the floor to the speaker. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u295	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u296	It's just an expression of my unfailing hope.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u297	Mr. Marshal, you can be sure of that every time you let me in the microphone. I won't have to. Thank you very much. I really shouldn't, but I got a little carried away when I heard those lies from my previous speaker. Ladies, please do not talk about representing Polish interests and who votes against Polish interests, because it is you who vote against Polish farmers, now you voted. Who has voted in the last few days... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The representatives of the PiS voted in the Constitutional Commission against granting Poland an additional 51st seat in the European Parliament, abandoned by...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u298	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u299	... Great Britain after Brexit. So? You voted against. And you're saying you're voting the right way. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...against Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u300	Thank you very much, now. Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish in correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u301	Thank you very much, Marshal. Very many words are not true on the part of the Member. First of all, for one false opinion that came up in the election campaign for Europarlament, you should apologize because you have lost the process - that we have negotiated less than you. We've negotiated 32 billion. You said we negotiated four billion less than you. You also forgot that Prime Minister Marcinkiewicz's government was negotiating and there was such a prospect. Why didn't you do it? The Prime Minister in Odrywole talked about coming. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for payments even greater than doubled, with payments being made at European level. So we're taking the highest level. You promised, and now you're pulling out of it. I'm afraid you're hypocrites. You promised the Golden Mountains in your campaign, and you can't make it happen. And that's the problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u302	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the draft resolution submitted were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at the Doha on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha on 8 December 2012 (prints No 2136 and 2162). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present a report on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, print No 2136. The joint committee's report is in print No 2162. The Commission carried out its first reading of the project on 9 January 2018 and examined it in detail. They recommend that the High House adopt a draft law without amendment. High Izbo! It should be noted that the 1992 Climate Convention is a framework, sets out the objective of stabilising the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and lays down general principles of cooperation between States Parties on its achievement. On the other hand, the Kyoto Protocol of 11 December 1997 provides for concrete actions and targets - reducing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the parties listed in Annex B to that Protocol. It therefore contains specific commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions during the 2008-2012 accounting period. The amendment to the Kyoto Protocol drawn up in Doha on 8 December 2012 sets out a second commitment period: 2013 and 202020. The Doha Amendment, let me remind you, was to enter into force 90 days after its approval by 3/4 parties to the Kyoto Protocol, i.e. 144 countries. However, everything points out that in the second trading period there will be much fewer parties, 30 countries, 30 parties, i.e. The European Union, its 28 Member States, and Iceland, on the basis of an agreement with Iceland of 1 April 2015. Let me remind you that the Doha Amendment envisages continuing to participate in the Kyoto Protocol scheme and allowing the European Union to join this agreement. We therefore have, High Izbo, the continuity of international cooperation on climate change until the entry into force of the Paris Agreement of 12 December 2015, which has been in force since 4 November 2016, and its solutions will be operational since 2021. The Doha Amendment, as I said, has not yet entered into force because it has not been ratified by enough parties. Unfortunately, it must be said that the Kyoto Protocol system is based on quite rigid solutions. Any change requires the adoption and ratification of amendments, and this results in continuous negotiations. High Izbo! This is completely different with regard to the solutions of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement adopted on 12 December 2015 is much more flexible. It offers an opportunity to reduce the rate of carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere so that, according to the adopted mathematical model, the increase in global average temperature is not greater than 2 degrees compared to the pre-industrial period. In principle, the Paris Agreement is attended by all countries of the world, including the largest pollutant issuers such as China, the United States and India. The Paris Agreement allows action to be taken to reduce the concentration of carbon dioxide, but taking into account the economic specificities of individual countries and constitutes a return to the basic findings of the message or spirit of the climate conference, and the Polish contribution is the contribution of the Minister of Environment, Prof. Jan Szyszko. There is a provision in this document to take account of the carbon balance and removal. High Izbo! Poland will host the conference this year COP24 in Katowice. Poland, which has been active in international efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for years, should, despite the circumstances I have presented, ratify the Doha Amendment. This is what the draft law discussed by the two joint committees aims to achieve. However, at the stage of the submission of acceptance documents, it is planned to declare that the implementation of the Doha Amendment will be conditional on the approval of the Doha Amendment by the European Union and its Member States. As always, it is a burden to carry out such obligations, and we should be guided by common sense here. High Izbo! Joint committees: the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommend the adoption of a draft law in print No 2162. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u304	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of... [[Applause]] Mr Telus... [[I'm applauding.]] There are limits even to applause, so to speak. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at Kyoto on 11 December 1997, adopted at Doha on 8 December 2012. The Doha Amendment gives a new shape to Annex B, which contains country reduction commitments. In addition to the list of countries and existing commitments for the period 2008 to 2012, commitments for the period 2013 to 2020 have emerged as a percentage of emissions from the year or base period as well as a percentage of emissions from the reference year. The amendment also includes non-binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The ratification of the Doha Amendment by the Republic of Poland depends on the full participation of the European Union and the Member States in the second settlement period. In view of the mixed nature of the agreement and the decision by the European Union and the Member States to fulfil their commitments, it is necessary to ratify the Doha Amendment both by the European Union and by each Member State so that the second commitment period enters into force for all participants in the agreement. It should be noted that the Republic of Poland was actively involved in drawing up a draft Council decision on accession to the Doha Amendment containing the principles of joint fulfilment of commitments and signed an agreement with Iceland on this matter. Thus, acts of European Union law directly implementing the second settlement period meet the expectations of the Republic of Poland. The ratification of this amendment is also an opportunity to make faster progress in the negotiations on the implementation of the Paris Agreement in the framework of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Within the framework of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention of December 2015 on the reduction of carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere, it is to be achieved as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible in accordance with the methods and policies adopted by the parties. In addition, the country-wide agreed contributions to the agreement from 2020 will oblige all countries in the world, not only developed countries, as adopted in the Kyoto Protocol. It is important that the Republic of Poland is planning to make a declaration by the Republic of Poland to the Doha Amendment. This indicates the activity of the Polish government. According to this declaration, the implementation of the amendment will depend on the approval of the Doha Amendment both by the European Union and by all its Member States. In this way, given the scope of the Union's and its Member States' competences in the field of environmental protection, the effectiveness of the Polish Republic's acceptance of the amendment will be subject to the EU law and to the Member States' unanimous consent and thus we safeguard Poland's right to decide on the choice of the energy source which is most beneficial for our country. It is extremely important that in December this year Poland will host the most important global summit on climate policy, COP24. Nearly 30,000 will take part in this event. delegates from all over the world, including heads of government and ministers responsible for environmental and climate issues. And the fact that Poland was chosen as the host of this conference confirms that we are among the leaders of global climate policy. The Law and Justice Club supports the ratification of the Doha Amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u306	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Report from the Commission for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha Council on 8 December 2012. Ad-Dauha is the Qatari name of the capital, you can also use the Doha name. We support the ratification of the Doha Amendment and thus confirm in the UN arena that Poland intends to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. The amendment adopted by consensus by the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention establishes a second settlement period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2020. This amendment has set legally binding emission reduction commitments for the parties to the Kyoto Protocol listed in Annex B and introduced further amendments to the text of the Kyoto Protocol related to the implementation of the second commitment period. The objectives of binding Poland with an amendment to the Protocol are: to continue participation in the Kyoto Protocol system, to enable the European Union to join this amendment and to develop a global process of multilateral cooperation for climate protection. The main amendment introduced by this amendment is the new form of Annex B containing country reduction commitments. In addition to the list of countries and existing commitments for the period 2008 and 2012, commitments for the period 2013 and 2020 were entered as a percentage of emissions from the year or base period as well as a percentage of emissions from the reference year. For Poland, it is important to include the same reduction obligation for the European Union and all Member States. The reduction obligation for the European Union and the Member States is accompanied by an appropriate provision whereby the common list does not prejudge the division of commitments in the subsequent joint fulfilment agreement. To date, the Republic has implemented its reduction commitments on its own, although by means of instruments resulting from climate policy and internal regulations of the European Union. During the second trading period, Poland declared its willingness to participate in the joint fulfilment of its commitments by the European Union. The content of the declaration made by the Republic of Poland stresses that acceptance of the amendment does not in any way restrict Poland's rights as a sovereign state free to act internationally to take all necessary measures to protect its rights resulting from its international agreements in the field of climate change, including the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. It should also be noted that the Doha Amendment has not yet entered into force since, as has already been said, it must be ratified by at least 144 countries. Let us hope that this will happen, all the more so that Poland will host this year's climate summit in Katowice, during which concrete directions for the implementation of the new global climate agreement, which is to start in force from 2020. As rightly noted here, the Paris Agreement is more flexible. France has put a great deal of effort into adapting it to the requirements of each country, so that each country can decide how it wants to achieve its reduction targets. Katowice will be the place where you will try to find a common denominator that will simply compare the aspirations of each country - whether they are actually effective - to achieve this reduction objective. I have a question for the Minister. 2 years ago, at the end of the PO-PSL coalition, President Andrzej Duda submitted a veto to the Act on ratification of this amendment, saying: the binding of the Republic of Poland with an international agreement which imposes social costs on the functioning of the economy should be preceded by a detailed analysis of the legal and economic consequences, including in the framework of the legislative procedure preceding the ratification decision by the Sejm. In the President's opinion, these effects have not been sufficiently clarified during the legislative process, so please explain how [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can explain and describe these effects today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u309	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am delighted to present the position of the Kukiz Posel Club15 on the government's draft ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, prints 2136 and 2162. The current system of international cooperation on climate change regulation is based on the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol to the 1997 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is the Kyoto Protocol that provides for concrete measures to reduce and reduce greenhouse gas emissions during the 2008-2012 trading period. This period has ended and new emission reduction targets need to be set for the coming years. This is foreseen by the amendment adopted in December 2012 in Doha. It establishes a second reference period for 2013 and-2020 and adds nitrogen trifluoride to the list of greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol. It also gives a concrete country the opportunity to strengthen its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We as the Kukiz Posel Club15 know that we must respect signed agreements in this respect, but we have serious doubts about the effectiveness of these agreements, because only European countries and Australia have commitments to the Kyoto Protocol. The US, Russia, Canada, Japan and developing countries do not have them, but have declared that they will work towards climate protection by 2020, with varying degrees of success. It is no wonder that a new post-2020 agreement on climate protection is being negotiated that applies to all countries. Since, with regard to the European Union and its Member States, the ratification of the Doha Amendment does not entail any new commitments beyond those set out in the 2009 climate and energy package, Kukiz15 is in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u310	Thank you. Ms Ewa Lieder gave her position in writing, Mr Sylvester Khrushch also. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u311	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club a position on the draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at Ad-Dausze on 11 December 1997 on 8 December 2012. Our club's position is clear and clear. We support this bill. At this moment there is a very lively debate on the shape of the joint effort of all countries for the future of our planet. We are involved in this discussion and, as the applicants themselves wrote in the explanatory memorandum, we are a key partner in a group of countries which form an avant-garde of international cooperation in the field of climate change, environmental protection and sustainable development. However, the gray reality looks a little different in our country. Although the Prime Minister promises to appoint a minister from the smog, the smog is still well. So I ask: What is the government's current vision of improving air quality? What is the involvement of national and voivodship environmental funds in the fight against smog? Who coordinates the work of these funds? You have won over from the Marshals of the Voivodship environmental protection funds, when a completely new quality was promised. Somehow it's quiet. When will citizens be able to benefit from individual programmes, such as earlier programmes, the Prosumer programme or the Kawka programme, which allowed for the financing of the replacement of burning furnaces on an environmentally friendly basis? Or is it worth thinking about the universal environmental tax relief? You're investing in environmental protection... [[We'll find more effective solutions.]] ...you have the right to tax relief. Straight and clear. The sum of the allowances granted shall be refinanced by one transfer from the national environmental fund account to the account of the Minister of Finance. This system needs to be simplified in order to be efficient. I encourage you and urge you to be truly avant-garde in good changes, good climate changes, in specific work, and not just in activities for show and attractive foreign travel. Although we support the project, we urge very strongly for concrete action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u312	Thank you very much. There are no questions, right? The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr. Paweł Salek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, In fact, you could say that there were two questions. I wanted to answer Mr Sonik's question that such analyses were carried out by the Institute for the Protection of the Environment. This case has been analyzed. There is another general context to this matter. The fact that the law was vetoed by the President in 2015 later helped us on many other issues related to climate policy in the European Union. As regards what Mrs Pasławska said, I would like to point out that air and climate protection matters are linked, and today we are talking about ratifying the Doha Amendment. All the elements you mentioned when it comes to clean air are being implemented by the government as much as possible. In April last year, at the level of the Council of Ministers and the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, a special programme of clean air was proposed. At 15 points, which were commissioned at the time, 10. We continue to operate systematically under the National Air Protection Programme. The steering committee for this programme is located in the Ministry of the Environment, because according to the Act the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for air quality issues. So that these elements really are very, very much. They're all available in the media space. This information is also contained in the parliamentary interpellations and is transmitted in the context of continuous contact, so to speak, with Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u314	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the representatives of all the clubs for their declaration of vote for this law. This is important. Poland, which has put so much effort into promoting, in its work, the coordination of the work that the international community has undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which has so much time, attention and strength to promote solutions to this problem, must be a credible country, must be a country with a coherent and long-term policy. This bill is a point on this road. I therefore thank the representatives of all clubs for their support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u316	And we thank the honourable Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni regarding the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at Ad-Dausze on 8 December 2012. The main change introduced by the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol is the aspect of country reduction commitments. It is important for Poland to enter the same reduction obligation as for the EU and all Member States. The reduction obligation for the EU and the Member States is accompanied by an appropriate footnote, according to which the common number does not prejudge the division of commitments in the subsequent joint fulfilment agreement. To date, the EU and 15 Member States have implemented a joint commitment and the new Member States have had their individual reduction targets. New Art. 3 (1) (a) 7b introduces an additional rule for settlement period No 2. This is to cancel the positive difference between the amount of emissions allocated during the second trading period and the average annual emissions, then multiply by 8. This change will not result in a situation where actual emissions of a given country during the second trading period would increase compared to those of the beginning of the first period. Art. 3 (1) (a) 12a and Article 12a 3 (1) (a) 12b provides the possibility for future market mechanisms established by the United Nations Framework Convention or other instruments set up under the Convention to settle commitments. During the second trading period, Poland declared its willingness to participate in the EU's joint fulfilment of its obligations. To date, we have implemented our reduction commitment ourselves. Ratification of the amendment will have positive consequences for Poland. Participation in the second trading period will allow the use of flexibility mechanisms. Thanks to these changes, we will have at our disposal an excess of the units allocated from the first trading period. As a result of the amendment, Poland is expected to have up to 102.9 million units of allocated emissions from the second commitment period alone. Accordingly, the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at Doha on 8 December 2012.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u318	The draft introduces the approval of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at Kyoto on 11 December 1997. This decision is of major political importance in the European Union and in the world. It will keep Poland in an international system of agreements to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, which will be in force until the Paris Agreement enters into force from 2020. Two years ago, the president vetoed a similar project of the PO-PSL coalition. The lack of ratification of the Doha Amendment by Poland to date also meant that the European Union as a whole could not ratify the amendment. The justification for the veto was the lack of a detailed analysis of the legal and economic consequences, but on the international stage it was perceived as confirmation of Poland's direction towards a coal-based economy. Meanwhile, a group of countries (including the UK, Canada, France, Italy, Belgium, Austria, Finland, Mexico, Portugal) set up a Coal Retreat Pact on 16 November 2017 (at the 23rd Bonn Climate Summit). Participants want to increase the number of members of the agreement to 50 for next year's climate summit in Katowice. At the climate summit in Katowice at the end of this year, concrete directions for implementing the 2015 Paris climate summit are to be laid down. This is the first international agreement that obliges all countries to work towards climate protection. Its main objective is to keep global average temperatures rising at a much lower level than 2? C in relation to the pre-industrial era and continue efforts to reduce the temperature rise to 1.5?C. Ratification of the Doha amendment will bring with it the release of additional so-called Poland. reduced CO2 units - AU, which Poland will be able to manage. This decision is therefore linked to the financial benefits for our country and society. The reason for the project was to ensure that: "As far as costs related to the entry into force of the Doha Amendment are concerned, only the possibility of a slight increase in the contribution of the Republic of Poland to the activities of certain elements of the Kyoto Protocol scheme is envisaged. Poland can, and should, do more for climate protection. The previous Minister of Environment focused on burning fossil fuels, which will certainly not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the role of forests in CO2 absorption, which with the help of Minister Szyszka were mass-cut. We hope that the environment resort after the changes will have much more to propose. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u319	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990 (prints Nos 2161 and 2209). I would like to ask Catherine Chechara to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. High Izbo! Marshal, in accordance with Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading on 9 January 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 25 January 2018, adopted the abovementioned. Law without amendment. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends the adoption of this law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u321	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Is Mr Tomasz Lenz, the Civic Platform? You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, whose position I am expressing, recommends that the High House vote in favour of the contested bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. After the systemic changes Poland signed 60 international agreements to promote and protect mutual investments called intra-EU BIT. They were signed to encourage foreign capital to invest in the needy, rebuilding economy of our country. They also provided assistance to Polish investors located outside the state. Among the benefits of signing such an agreement are the possibility of resolving disputes arising before arbitration tribunals acting more simply and efficiently, as is well known, from the general court. At the time of accession to the European Union, the use of intra-EU BIT agreements was no longer necessary. In fact, the European Union is a free trade area providing ready-made tools and mechanisms to promote economic integration and the protection of operators. In this context, the European Commission has rightly raised objections to the Member States' existence and the need to operate. The Republic of Poland considered that bilateral agreements would be the preferred way to deal with this situation so as to waive the protection clauses of these agreements. As the initiative to terminate intra-EU BIT agreements has emerged from the Kingdom of Denmark, there is no concern about the deterioration of bilateral relations. Our companies operating in Denmark or Danish capital in Poland will remain under the protection of EU law, which they preferred. This change follows the guidance of the European Commission in this regard. In fact, this law is merely an order of law and a simplification of the standards governing economic relations with the Kingdom of Denmark. For these reasons, the Civic Platform Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u323	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel is not here. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990. The existing normative rules, through which Poland is linked to Denmark, are incompatible with Community law. The 1990 Polish-Danish Agreement was concluded during the period of systemic transformation with the Member State of the Community. Everything changed when we joined the Union in 2004. At that time, the legal solutions in force were the same as those in other EU countries. Therefore, the continued functioning of this agreement is questioned by the European Commission. The solution to the agreement will therefore not have negative political consequences, because we are reviewing the agreement reached at the request of the European Commission, which seeks to put out the existing intra-EU BIT agreements. Poland, as well as Denmark, are willing to terminate this agreement. Nor will we experience the negative social and economic consequences of leaving this agreement. As you know, the agreement was concluded during the economic transition period and its aim was to attract Danish investments to Poland which was not then a member of the European Union. The current legislation on access to EU markets, as well as the legal regulation of requiring certain Community standards in Poland, provide a guarantee of protecting investments with the possibility of exercising their rights on a judicial basis. Both Danes and Poles benefit from investment opportunities in both countries. Denmark is a significant investor in Poland. According to GUS data in 2015, Danish shares in Poland amounted to PLN 12.69 billion, representing 2.63% total and accumulated capital in Poland. Information from the development department also shows that Polish as well as Danish investors did not make any claims against each other to international arbitration tribunals. The ratification of the agreement leading to the termination of the 1990 agreement concluded between Poland and Denmark will not affect the Polish legal order. It will only lead to the removal of an illegal international agreement. Modern is in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u325	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Leśniak from Law and Justice, whom I am inviting at the moment, has appeared.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law contained in print 2161. This bill agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, signed in Copenhagen on 1 May 1990, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement." This law aims to bring existing agreements into line with European law in order to avoid formal proceedings by the European Commission. In November 2016, the European Commission concluded an informal procedure for Poland and is considering initiating a formal procedure. It should be noted that the termination of the agreement is due to a bilateral agreement which provides for the termination of the final provisions, to which the Danish party also addressed the Polish comments in a note dated 18 April 2017. The enforcement of claims before an international arbitration tribunal has been widely criticised, costly and long-term. Both Danish investors in Poland and Polish investors in the Kingdom of Denmark did not rely on claims against the host State to invest in international arbitration tribunals under this agreement. The conclusion of an agreement should not affect economic relations between Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark. The current level of legislation and access to the general judiciary sufficiently secures foreign investors. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following a thorough analysis of the proposed law, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u327	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 14 hours 17 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare (Print No 2212). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Tomasz Dybek to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Present and future patients! I have bad news for you: you are not immortal, and just as we Poles, you will die. Yes, you will die - five years earlier than the citizens of Western European countries, whose rulers are trying to ensure the right conditions for treatment. Imagine a man who's always been healthy, he's been fine, and suddenly he's fainted, you don't know what happened. He never thought it would happen to him - a disease, a weakness - and now he's lying there waiting for an ambulance. Every second you wait for an ambulance seems like an eternity. The thoughts come: Will she come? Is it going to work? Isn't there going to be a shortage of paramedics? Will there be a hospital bed? Will a busy and tired nurse be able to call a doctor? Will the doctor be there? Will he be able to come? Will I survive? Are there gonna be drugs? Thoughts grow, horror grows. When we get closer and look into the eyes of this sick person, we'll see that he's the statistical Pole. Yeah, it could be you. You, waiting in line for an office where doctors may miss it, for example. They took the advice of Mrs Hrynkiewicz and went abroad, or because of the retirement age they stopped working. You're okay with that when you know you can change it, really heal it? Dear patients gathered in this House! The right protest of doctors, i.e. physiotherapists, electroradiologists, laboratory diagnostics, psychologists, speech counselors and nutritionists, and not only residents, has clearly proved the catastrophic situation in the Polish health system neglected by all the rulers since the transformation of the system. So far, no government has been able to make radical decisions in order to ensure that Poles are worthy of treatment. Despite the electoral slogans made by all parties, that citizens' health will be treated first-rately, apart from growing bureaucracy, almost nothing has changed. Nothing's changed. Dear patients gathered in this House! I stand before you now, not only as a representative of the Polish health service, but above all representing the society of the Republic of Poland, whose constitution in art. 68 obliges public authorities to ensure that citizens, regardless of their material situation, have equal access to public-funded healthcare services. I'm asking you about this availability. Where is she? Is she real? If we don't realize that we're currently spending 4.67% on health care gross domestic product and the minimum necessary, I stress: the minimum recommended by the OECD is almost 7% gross domestic product... According to the OECD, our country, with 4.5% gross domestic product, took one of the last places in 2015. Dear patients gathered in this House! Our citizens' bill amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision, under which more than 160 thousand have been signed. Poles, calls for an immediate process of increasing annual expenditure on health care in order to reach a target level in 2021 and the following years. 6,8% GDP, and already this year - 5.2% GDP. These expenditures should increase by 0.5% per year. In our citizens' bill, we propose the principle that funds corresponding to the increase in healthcare expenditure for a given year compared to the previous year would first be allocated, in the form of grants transferred to the Fund, to the payment of health care benefits. These benefits would be defined each year by a regulation of the Minister of Health which, when issuing them, should be based on the following: firstly, the need to ensure the availability of certain benefits, including waiting lists, secondly, the type of benefits, taking into account the obligation to provide special health care to children, pregnant women, disabled persons and the elderly, and thirdly the conclusions of health needs maps. It would be precisely the only and basic implementing act that would be the annual regulation of the Minister of Health setting out the means for allocating the grant to the National Health Fund, taking into account the principles laid down by the Act. As a result, such implementing acts will have to take into account an increase in the financing of such a range of benefits as will enable the provisions of the proposed law to be implemented. Dear patients gathered in this House! The past negligence in creating an effective health system in Poland has led to a crisis, the consequences of which may be tragic for all of us. Repelling problems for almost 30 years through successive governments has now become statistically measured cases for decision-makers. Can a man be a budget burden? And those demanding a change of situation are the troublesome professional group that spoils the well-being of every authority. Our citizens' bill aims to restore dignity, first, to patients waiting in queues, second, to doctors treated as robots, humiliated by the system, to all those who help them in suffering. Today, the rulers pride themselves on overturning the dignity of their citizens. Do they mean healthy citizens? Have they forgotten about patients and doctors who are sick and even dying of overwork? The adoption of a law in the form that we propose, first of all, will overcome the spectrum of the collapse of the health care system, because it will inhibit the outflow of qualified medical personnel, among others. reduce the economic emigration of physiotherapists, nurses and doctors, secondly, will be an investment in the economy of the country. Numerous studies show that investment in the health of citizens has repeatedly been made in the economy. Healthy, faster cured workers and entrepreneurs generate income and pay taxes. It is not known from now on that disease does not only cost patients and health care along with the welfare sector. It is calculated that indirect costs related to the diseases of workers and their absenteeism, and thus a reduction in productivity, which translates e.g. for lower income and profits of employers, are higher than the direct costs associated with the treatment process, especially when due to underfinancing of health services it is extended and less effective. Dear patients gathered in this House! The adoption of the bill we are proposing is a quality in the medical sector, a major step towards implementing the constitutional right of citizens to equal access to public-funded healthcare services. Inexhaustible doctors will certainly increase the comfort of treatment and create a climate of confidence in the health care system in Poland. Dear patients gathered in this House! The situation in Polish health care is tragic, so I suggest that the courageous adoption of such a law be the best celebration of the century of regaining independence. [[Applause]] Without additional resources, negative trends and worsening access to health services, increasing queues, waiting times for benefits cannot be stopped. At present, from the beginning of their term of office, they have announced that reconstruction of health care is part of a family-friendly policy, but also with a much broader dimension. Therefore, every Polish citizen is to feel safe when he needs medical help, to know that such help will be given to him quickly and will be safe. Which one of us feels safe now? In order to implement the above mentioned. announcements should be sought without delay to increase expenditure on health care and, consequently, to start work on the reform of the healthcare system based on solutions that have already worked out in other countries. This is a difficult task for politicians, a task that can create high social tensions, but further avoiding this problem will lead to disaster. In order to prevent it, we need to start by asking for more money for the healthcare system. According to the authorities' assurances, the Polish economy has never been in as good shape as it is today. Therefore now, not once, but now, it is time for a profound reform of the Polish health service and its financing, the time to finally make a decision on improving the health and condition of the nation. 'Cause if not now, when? If not you, then who? Dear patients gathered in this House! After all, every politician knows that in all studies among the most important values in life Poles exchange health. It should also be stressed, based on the 2015 study, that for older people, among the three most important values in life, health before family and religious faith had the highest number of indications, as many as 95%. Improving health care is 81% said the most important purpose of the new government asked. This is the result of a new CBOS survey conducted in mid-January this year. Hence the great support of our bill, not the first. This is the second time in 7 months I stand before you to appeal to you to understand the inevitability of the crisis in Polish health care. The last time we saw each other was July. I presented a draft law on minimum remuneration in health care, under which 250,000 were signed. Poles. Do you still remember him? So? He's missing somewhere in the Health Committee and the Public Finance Commission. Now I present to you a citizens' bill, under which within 2 weeks, I stress: within 2 weeks, we have collected 150 thousand signatures. Poles... [[Applause]] [[Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bravo!]] ...wanting them to have a constitutional right - health care is guaranteed. I repeat: Despite many attempts to disrupt our environment and numerous provocations and media manipulations, the Medical Profession Agreement gathered 400 thousand within just 3.5 months. signatures under two civic projects. On behalf of all patients and those who are intimidated and healthcare professionals, I request that work be started on the bill that we have presented, which can help to heal the sick health system. Dear patients gathered in this House! It's time to say thank you. Urgent visit to a children's cardiologist - in 4 months. We thank the politicians. Waiting for a diagnosis of breast cancer - only 37 weeks. We thank the politicians. Waiting for rehabilitation in the rehabilitation ward - only 12 months, and in the rehabilitation facility - 7 months. We thank the politicians. At least 1 000 medical personnel in Europe residents. We thank the politicians. 14 PLN for an hour to save a human life? We thank the politicians. A full 15 minutes for a patient, including 10 minutes for red tape. Thank you, the Ministry of Health. Dear patients gathered in this House! It's up to you. When making a decision, think about your children and your loved ones, sooner or later they'll be our patients too. You have a chance to extend your life to yourself, to your families, to your friends and to all of us, to your constituents. I appeal: Do not let Poles die 5 years earlier than Western European citizens die. Don't let them humiliate the patients in line. Don't let the dignity of people saving lives be trampled on. This ulcer, called the tragic situation in health care, has been raging for many years. In a minute, we can't stand patching holes at our expense and something's really gonna explode, but then it's gonna be too late. Support the citizens' bill, which will be good for all of us, both of you and us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u329	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult not to refer to this project and not to recall the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who in his exposé said: The first important task is health care. There is no decent life without efficient health care, so we will increase health spending to 6% in the next few years. This increase is possible by sealing the tax system. And that's why, just as we sealed the tax system, we're going to apply a similar operation to health care. However, there can be no privatisation of profits and nationalisation of losses. That's why we're going to put a great deal of emphasis on the electronicization of health care. This is what you said during your exposé, stressing how important it is for the new government, but also for the former Minister and Government, Mrs Beata Szydło, health care. Ladies and gentlemen! In November 2017, the High Sejm decided to adopt a law which guarantees the financing of health protection in the years 2018 to 2024 and shows that it cannot be spent less than the one guaranteed by this law. And so in 2018 this is supposed to be 4.67% gross domestic product, in 2019 and 4,86% , in 2020, 5,03% , in 2021, 5,22% , in 2022, 5,41% , in 2023, 5,60% , and in the year 2024.5,80%. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that this is a priority for us in order to secure adequate financial resources in health care. It is also worth recalling some figures that indicate what funds have been spent in recent years. And in recent years this has been the case: in 2015 67.5 billion PLN was secured and spent on health care, in 2016, i.e. in the first year of the rule of law and justice, it was 69.5 billion PLN, but already in 2017 the plan was 84 billion, while due to the sealing of the tax system, at the time when the free resources appeared, these funds were redirected to health care and the amount of 87 billion PLN was spent. The plan for 2018 closes in another record amount, because as much as 93 billion PLN. This is another PLN 6 billion more. What does that show? This shows the consequences in such a way that health care and spending on this health service are very important to us, but these measures must be spent rationally. We need to seal the system, we need to put an end to the situation related to the export of drugs, and to what I have already said here, that profits will be privatized, while nationalised will be losses and costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce the position of the club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, we can continue to discuss this law, and it will probably be so, which is why, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I propose that the project be directed to further work in the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u331	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform's position on the citizens' draft law amending the law on public-funded healthcare provision. With regard to health funding according to this project, annual funding of not less than 6,8% will be allocated the gross domestic product of the previous year, provided that the amount of the financial resources intended to finance health care for the years 2018 to 2020 may not be less than 5,2% Gross domestic product from the previous year in 2018, 5.7% GDP from the previous year in 2019 and 6.2% the gross domestic product of the previous year in 2020 and the financial resources representing the difference between the year in question and the previous year shall in the first instance be used to finance from the State budget in the form of grants to the National Health Fund. High Seym! The proposal, the citizens' project is very similar to our projects for increasing health finance, is actually compatible with them. The Civic Platform has been talking about this for months. A few minutes ago, a representative of the Law and Justice Club spoke about this great historic law, which was adopted on 24 November, referring to an increase in healthcare expenditure of up to 6%. GDP by 2025. This is, according to Minister Radziwiłł and the entire government, a historic event, very important in the last few decades in terms of improving the financing of health protection. All of this is beautifully sold, but neither patients nor, above all, health care representatives of all professional groups agree to the date of this next historic event, which was indicated for 2025. Until then, the health care system without a faster, earlier recapitalisation has no chance of remaining in the same situation as it is today. Today's health protection through funding, which, according to your representative PiS, has also increased from year to year, which was not the result of government action and improved health funding, because it was due to economic growth, the rise in the lowest wages, the increased health contribution, therefore this fund in the National Health Fund had to increase... I think that if today, as the applicant's representative has said here, we do not increase funding to this size... This is the last time we can save health care. This is the moment when all the professional groups, and the youngest doctors, and those older ones who retire, are unable to continue to function as part of such health care. This is a situation where Polish patients, contrary to expectations, have longer queues for health services. This is a situation where, as a result of the revision of the Medical Rescue Act, more than 130 teams will have to stop operating in almost one voivodship, so that their availability for about 2 million patients will be limited. These are the directions that PiS proposes in health care. Outlays of 6,8% GDP, as proposed in this citizens' project, is an optimal and feasible solution. With such a large amount of financial resources as the PiS refers to, it is possible to increase expenditure on health protection not in 2025, but within two to three years. We proposed a cross-party agreement, which would make it possible to find almost PLN 7 billion in the next year's budget for funding, to increase financing for health protection. This would be from excise duties on tobacco products, excise duties on alcohol products. It is also about the elimination of this nonsense project consisting in the construction of shooting galleries in every district - almost PLN 2.6 billion - as well as the cessation of activities of the Territorial Defence Army or unnecessary purchases of aircraft for VIPs. In the way we presented, step by step, it could already be found in 2018 to improve the financing of health protection about PLN 7 billion. The Civic Platform Club will support the citizens' project with all its responsibilities and seriousness and, of course, we will be in favour of directing this project to further work in the committee, but I would like to remind you that the designer also applied for salary increases in the various professional groups a few months ago, and unfortunately this proposal is gone, was rejected by the votes of the PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We therefore support and we will be in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u333	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is a citizens' project, and no citizens' project can be blocked by this House at first reading. It is a requirement, a duty, if we want to be a Seym for citizens. As far as the financing of the whole health system is concerned, it is no secret that Poland, when it comes to public funding of this system, is at the gray end of Europe. But it's no secret that we're no longer at the gray end in financing the private health system. And with an ageing society, and even after the Ministry led by Minister Radziwiłł, the reforms that are very unsuccessful - I mean the hospital network and the POZ reform - will stand before the next necessity and we will spend more and more on health from private pockets. If we don't change the whole health care operation system, we'll be stuck in the situation we're in all the time. And I am very sceptical as to whether this reform, which was introduced by Minister Radziwiłłła, means quite a small increase in expenditure on the health care system, will do anything if we do not reform the way this money is spent. Of course, the citizens' project deserves support because you can't block what's very important. not only from a health point of view, but also from an economic point of view. Investing in health care is simply paying off to you as a state. And the reckless actions of the predecessors, reckless, because the unpredictable effects of such action, have caused us to be in the situation we are in. And I would also like to come to this situation here in this House, and maybe throughout Poland, that we should reject political divisions, because diseases do not choose. Whether someone is a supporter of PiS, PO, Kukiza or Modern, or PSL or not at all non-party groups, diseases do not choose, affect all people. And we can't argue about that, and we can't just throw away accusations, repressing the past. Let's look to the future. I'm not hiding that I have a bit of a grudge against the president. This is about our call from October to take on the patronage of the long-term reform, because no state has made a comprehensive reform during the period of one Chamber. An example is the Netherlands, which reformed the system and is a country less than Poland, 12 years old. And we power, these are new ideas. And what the previous minister introduced really puts us in a great challenge as to how to change it. And now, once again from this place, I call on the President to accept our request, the request of Kukiz, 15 and Paul Kukiz's personal request to take the patronage to create something á la round table - although there are different names here, there is a social council, etc. - so there's continuity in this reform, so after another or another term of office, suddenly there's a new genius who's gonna suddenly turn everything upside down and we're gonna start from scratch. We don't have time anymore, ladies and gentlemen. We don't have time for experiments. May the new Minister, who was at the meeting of the Health Committee and present his vision in a way, I can tell you honestly, acceptable when he faces this challenge, also be sure that what he will introduce will not be torpedoed in two years or earlier if someone on top in the leadership of just the right party finds that he has already been exploited. That is why I appeal to the President once again from this place. And absolutely, as I said before, this project must go to further proceding. This is how Kukiz will vote on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u335	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the applicant for the civic project! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour on behalf of the Poselski Club to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds. At first, I'm going to turn to this empty room. You promised to listen to the Poles, but you are not here today when citizens have submitted their bill. You're only listening to the president. Where are the Poles? You have to answer that question yourself. I'm gonna start off with an unusual reminder of two important data. 4.67% the gross domestic product is intended for health protection in 2018. 4.6% gross domestic product is the growth of Polish GDP in the last year. I remind you of these numbers for a very simple reason. The Prime Minister, while still Minister of Finance, was very open to the concepts of building a welfare state. Social programs run by the PiS in very many places are unfair or underdeveloped. And health protection does not practically participate in them and does not benefit from the growth of gross domestic product. You can't build a strong country without healthy citizens. It is impossible to build such a country without increasing the cost of health care. Similarly, health protection cannot be built if there are no educated doctors or nurses, and people creating a whole system of health care will be without the financial resources needed to provide them with the right conditions. Not only for the last 2 years or for the last 8 years, but practically since the beginning of the free Polish health protection has been slightly pushed to the margin. There's always been other needs. People's lives have changed, the quality of service in hospitals has increased, but this has not resulted in a radical increase in health care expenditures. But worst of all, the length of queues to specialist doctors continued to increase. Unfortunately, today we are on the brink, on the one hand, due to demographic change, because older society is increasingly taking advantage of health care, on the other hand we have a huge problem in the form of leaving doctors and nurses, and thus extreme shortages of medical staff in our country. True, this is one of the demands put forward here, in this Chamber, by the PiS Member in recent times, during the protest of the residents... I must say that we welcomed the change in the position of Minister of Health. That change was necessary. Minister Radziwiłł did not cope from the very beginning, he lived in a completely different reality. By referring to his words, I'd say he lived a little in the theoretical world. Minister Szumowski at least admits that the problem of lack of medical personnel exists. The new minister, of course, is still in the process of implementing certain changes in the Ministry itself. I can understand that. It's only been a month since his appointment. We welcome the fact that in the Committee on Health, he said that several billion zlotys could be used to protect health. Such action is simply necessary. It is all the more important to work on amending the Law on public-funded healthcare services aimed at a real increase in expenditure. The current solutions put forward by Minister Radziwiłła are absurd, because growth, which would be guaranteed annually, does not provide any improvement in the quality of care, nor, most importantly, more of the services provided and, consequently, restrictions on queues. Do you, as Members of the PiS, consider it reasonable to take Poland, a country from a civilized world, to the recommended minimum level of expenditure on health care only in 2025, which is only seven years from now? Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' project, under which 150,000 signed. persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] Within just 2 weeks, it is expected to ensure a minimum of safety as early as 2020, with a further increase to the suggested level of expenditure of 6,8% GDP in 2021. I believe that we will be able to work together in committees so that this solution proposed by citizens can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u338	Thank you very much. My dear Miss Marshal! Dear Representatives of the Citizens' Legislative Initiative Committee! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank the steadfast, who for many months in the Medical Profession Agreement, now in the Legislative Initiative Committee are seeking to increase expenditure on health care, health care, for Polish patients. You can clearly see in this project that they put the patient first. This is the second initiative. That's 400,000. The signatures that Dr. Tomasz Dybek was talking about by presenting the project. This is a fight for the well-being of a Polish patient. Thank you very much for being steadfast in this despite the difficulties you face. I would also like to thank all those who signed up for this initiative. 150,000 have been signed under this project, as Mr Owl just said. people in just a few weeks. Where did this project come from? With the determination of resident doctors and other representatives of medical professions concentrated in the Medical Profession Agreement, who conducted over a month's hunger protest in order to increase the expenditure on healthcare in Poland. As a result, the first step was taken - the High House in general understanding adopted the draft proposed by the government. But it wasn't a project that resulted from the government's good will and intentions, because it didn't include it in its program. Minister Radziwiłł, predecessor, outlined another program - 6% within 2 years. This program hasn't been realized and unfortunately it is clear and tangible for Polish patients today. There is another project that assumes reaching 6% in 2025. I'm glad he's here, but he's not satisfying. The citizens' project is much better because it assumes reaching almost 7% in 4 years. This is what resident doctors and other representatives of the legislative committee have been asking for for for many, many months to increase availability - to improve working conditions, to increase wages, because it all consists of the availability of health services. Today we are discussing the citizens' project once again. As we have all heard, including Anna April, whom I also thank for her presence, because at this moment there are four Members from the 238-person PiS Club... [[Voice from the room: Three!]] Even after these poaching urges, you're no longer in the courtroom today. That's too bad. [[Applause]] Thank you to all those who have come. It's an expression of respect and commitment. Even after the declaration of employment in the committee, I simply do not believe in this declaration of employment in the committee, because the citizens' project on raising salaries, the same one that you have submitted, ladies and gentlemen, was also to be procedated. When was the last time you were invited to any work on a project that was presented in July? What were the consultations held? Is Minister Szumowski... still giving him a chance, but has Minister Radziwiłł been in touch with you? Did he invite you to work hard on this? Is that, to be honest, such a hypocritical act? Therefore, as in the first case, as in the case of the July project on raising salaries, with a minimum salary for health professionals, on behalf of my club, I apply for an immediate transition to second reading. [[Applause]] This is a test of whether there really is a good will on the side of the PiS, or if you really want to work on this project, or if it's just pretending. The project is very clear, clear and readable. There's no big philosophy to work in the subcommittee. These aren't thousands of articles we need to rewrite. This is a clear statement: yes, we are betting on health care. And just so we're clear, the whole truth is on the table. There was no government that would be 100% bet on health, there was no - neither the first government of PiS, nor later governments in which we participated, nor before. This is the call that Dr. Tomasz Dybek gave from this speaker to the politicians. And it's the right thing to do. But today is a great determination, we can do it together. One party has never had such an independent influence on governments in history. And really, if there is good will on the part of PiS, on the part of the Ministry of Health, yes, we are giving Minister Szumowski a chance, because at least he is not sitting on this pedestal of greatness and does not say that smog is a theoretical problem, he just wants to talk to us. But this time, like everything in our lives, is limited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not forever, it's the next few months. A gesture of goodwill and a test of the credibility of the good intentions of the rulers, whether they really want to shorten the queues, and do It is as soon as possible whether they want to increase the availability of health care, whether they want more wages for medical rescuers, nurses, physiotherapists, doctors, radiology technicians and pharmacists, there is an immediate transition to second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u339	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her speech in writing. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u340	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members of the Legislative Initiative Committee! I will start by saying that we are in our circle impressed by your initiative, which ends today with a debate on your draft amendment to the law on public-funded healthcare provision. That's what we think of as two elements. First of all, more than 100,000 meetings are at a great pace. signatures. It has only been a few weeks since your initiative was registered by the Marshal of the Sejm, until last year, when you brought more than 100,000 to the Sejm Chancellery. Citizens' signatures filed under your project. But it's also impressive to see the reasons you've joined this project. This justification, also made here by your representative, was very wise, it contained very many very valuable arguments and, in short, a pity - it is a pity that the right part of the room is simply empty. Indeed, four Members of the Law and Justice - either from the United Right, from the three right-wing clubs that govern Poland today - wanted to spend a dozen minutes listening to your arguments and read your project. The fact is that this is not the first time when, in the case of the citizens' initiative, PiS Members show such indifference, such disrespect, and this is not the first time when we encounter either indifference, silence and disregard, or the words that Mrs Hrynkiewicz said in October, when we discussed the problems of young doctors, resident doctors: Let them leave. They are leaving Poland - it is for those who listen to this debate that I would like to clarify. Applicants rightly argue that quality and especially the dates of availability of health services in Poland are becoming the most important problem for Poles. And this problem will only increase, for example because the percentage of Poles who are in post-production age actually grows rapidly, and the needs are growing, and not only those related to the elderly, but also those related to child care. Yes, there are noble initiatives in Poland, such as the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, also fought by the right side of the hall, which collect enormous amounts - recently more than 100 million PLN - but to achieve good quality Polish health care will not be enough millions, hundreds of millions will not be enough, billions are needed. It is therefore clear that, without changing the way health care is financed from the state budget, we will not change this situation. It is right that the representatives of the applicants also reminded November of the promises made in 2015 from this speaker by the former candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło that health services would be urgently repaired by the then Government of Law and Justice. And what's the reality, we all see. The words of Prime Minister Morawiecki were rightly recalled, who said last year during his exposé that the problems of health care and repair of health services would be at the heart of his government's attention - in December, yes, last year. What's the situation? The situation is that, despite the boastful words - also spoken from this speaker by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki as Deputy Prime Minister and later as Prime Minister - about the exceptionally favourable situation of the state budget, the draft law, which was proposed by Minister Radziwiłł and adopted by the Sejm by a majority of the state, speaks of an increase of up to 6% by 2025 and not as proposed by the applicant - to almost 7% by 2020. Therefore, following the previous speeches of clubs, including in particular the PSL Club, we also submit, in writing, a request to proceed to this draft law at second reading without undue delay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u341	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? Sign up, please. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute. There isn't. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, two minutes. There aren't many people asking.]] There's a lot of questions. We're dating for one minute. I won't interrupt. Okay? [[Voice from the room: No interruptions.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u342	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very happy that today all clubs, circles and also non-members are in favour of working on this project as soon as possible. And I would be even happier if, by the end of my term of office, I were to see the vote in this House on this project after the work of the committee and the signature of Mr Duda. That'd be lucky. [[Applause]] I would like to address my question to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. I know your proposal, but I would like to ask your views on the division of these funds into individual branches of the national fund, i.e. the so-called funds. an algorithm, according to which funds have been allocated for many years, or the absence of this algorithm, because it seems to me that it is already super outdated, and the way the funds are allocated depends on, I don't know, party affiliation, persuasion force, which is random. I am talking about this with full responsibility, because I have a letter before me, a statement to Minister Szumowski on the allocation of funds on an example - Mr Miller - the Opole Voivodeship. Sejmik Województwa Opoleskiego, starosts at the Opolskie Voivodeship Convention have been adopting positions indicating a disproportionate distribution of these funds for months. It's a voivodship - looking at the calculations that indicate [[♪ The bell ♪]] representatives of local government - it is poorer by more than PLN 115 million for 2017. Minister! I am not asking questions, I just have a request: try to verify it so that it is actually a voivodship - or maybe a few other voivodships - it was not punished in this way, lack of resources just for the provision of medical services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the fact that you need more money to protect your health, I don't think anyone has any doubts anymore, but I want to say that you need this money urgently, very urgently. This is required by the current system, because we are talking a lot about demography, we are also talking about increasing the incidence of so-called disease. chronic, civilizational diseases. This was also mentioned by the new Minister of Health at the Health Committee meeting. He said that he was open to dialogue, that he would be happy to talk, that there was a need to build a trans-political agreement. Well, Minister, there's an opportunity, there's a project and there's a proposal. Let's all sit down at the round table and talk about it. Last year, 403 thousand died in Poland. Poles and Poles. This is the largest increase in mortality since 1991. Why is this happening? Money is missing, but not only, ladies and gentlemen - there is also a lack of proper distribution of funds for repair medicine and prevention. This is the second issue that we also need to settle here. Supporting the citizens' project, I wanted to sign the applicant's appeal: let's make a common monument [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the century of regaining independence - let's all sign up for this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u345	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u346	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to begin by congratulating the Citizens' Committee on the Legislative Initiative on this result. 150,000. In two weeks, it's a really great score. Bravo, congratulations. It can be seen that Poles are very interested in solving this problem, but, judging by the turnout of PiS Members, this commitment unfortunately does not exist. You do not want Poles to be able to treat themselves in our country under decent conditions. Public expenditure on health care in Poland is around 4.6% Poland's GDP, while the average in OECD countries is 6.7%. Yeah, 6.7%. Poland is almost at the gray end in terms of these expenditures. And when it comes to queues to doctors or waiting for treatments, we're in the frenzy, we're a country that's almost the longest to wait for treatments. Now I have a question for you from PiS. Do you have money for stools in the Treasury companies? Here. Do you have money for limos that you break all the time? Here. Do you have money for Fr.Rydzyk? So do you. What about health care? There isn't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not interested in this problem at all. Minister Szumowski! Where are you? We had high hopes for you, but you are slowly failing us and those citizens who care about health. I know that for PiS the most important thing is the sontekura, but health care, health care is a really important topic, so it is worth supporting this civic project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u347	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. I am aware that you are a happy person today, because one of the priorities announced here, in this Chamber, in the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki was realized by the citizens. You didn't have to work hard at the Ministry of Health to prepare a road map to increase your health expenditure. But I'm deeply convinced... Therefore, my question to the Minister: Is the health resort ready to implement today this much-needed law increasing the expenditure on health protection to 6,8% GDP in 2021? Can you tell the Minister here today what the priorities will be in these four years? In the first place, what will the Ministry spend this money on? There was always an answer that was missing. It was missing for residents, for doctors, you deprived the nurse of the possibility of full funding, you very much cut that bill. As I understand it, the possibilities that this law gives today will allow all these needs to be met quickly. I would like the Minister to present here today what the priorities of the health department will be, using the citizens' initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the arguments for doing what the citizens' project presents are well-known and are actually outside the discussion. And as I can see, some of your fellow Members hope that the ruling team will agree to this solution. On the other hand, watching today's debate, the club speeches, when there was one member of the governing coalition, well, perhaps not counting, some of the representatives of the Kukiz club15, I think that despite the request to refer to the committee for further work, the fate of this will probably be as the PiS has already decided. I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that the Minister, on behalf of the Minister, who has also ignored today's point in the Sejm, can ensure that there will be serious work that will lead to some solution, at least similar to that presented in the citizens' project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The representative of the applicants Dr. Tomasz Dybek said that Poles live less than the inhabitants of Western Europe by 5 years. He might add that they live less than 10 years in fitness, and he might add that they live less than 15 years in health. This shows the scale of the challenges facing Poland. This government can't do bold projects, but it can do fantasmagorie. The design of the Central Airport is about to begin, which is going to cost PLN 35,40 billion. At the time when we had a doctor's strike, this House, this part of the House, awarded almost PLN 1 billion of television so-called. public - 1 billion PLN. And here is the question to applicants: To what extent would this 1 billion PLN allow to relieve the problem and to what extent would it solve the problem of the absence of doctors at this point? And then there's the system question. We know that increasing life expectancy results in an increase in spending on the health system. In what proportion do we deal with consuming the increase in expenditure by increasing life expectancy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u353	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am a doctor and a Member of the Opole Voivodeship. Here are Members who react with me - there is no week so that we do not have to react - to the falling elements of the health system in the Opole Voivodeship. This is Kluczbork, this is Olesno and this is finally my Nysa, where thanks to the wonderful reforms of the previous minister, patients' access to interventional cardiology was reduced and they were completely deprived of their ability to use vascular surgery. I don't have a question for the Minister or the Minister because I have no illusions that they'll do something. I have a question for Prime Minister Morawiecki, whether he will keep the promise given by the Prime Minister, who said that he will improve the health care situation, because you do not keep that promise. I would also like to say that there are no members of the PiS at meetings in Opole Voivodeship. They're not coming. They're scared. Ladies and gentlemen, will Prime Minister Morawiecki have the courage to look his patients in the eye and say: Ladies and gentlemen, the shooting range is more important to us - 2.7 billion PLN this year - more important for us is the Territorial Defence Army - 3.9 billion by the end of 2019 - more important for us is lying public television, more important is Father Rydzyk, more important is the national foundation, which does not fulfil its function. I congratulate you very much and wish Prime Minister Morawiecki the courage to say [[♪ The bell ♪]] society: either we spend money on health care, or we throw it away completely without meaning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm addressing the applicants. I happen to have a birthday tomorrow, and I'll tell you, a nice couple of years... [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ... I've been dealing with doctors for a couple of years. And thank you very much for all the help you've given me and my family. Thank you so much for collecting these signatures in two weeks, so quickly. I've also been signing off on this project. I will tell you that today, when I stand here as a Member of the Republic of Poland, I am ashamed that the Minister of Health is not sitting here, the person who was to help was to talk and to have a very good dialogue so that we can get straight. I am ashamed as a Member of the Republic of Poland that we seem to spend millions on the Ministry of National Defence, that it spends millions on the creation of a new institution of Polish-Hungarian friendship, 6 million each year for the next 10 years, that the Government of Law and Justice spends millions on the President of Tadeusz Rydzyk from my beautiful city of Toruń, that the Government of Law and Justice spends millions on propaganda public television only because it simply does not cope financially. I have a question for you. Tell me, at what stage are the talks with the government and whether there are any more discussions about systemic and structural changes in addition to the financial talks, because, as we know, it's not just about money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just more than that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u357	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u358	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Increase healthcare expenditure to 6,8% GDP is the absolute minimum. Today this system works only because about 90% Retired doctors are still working. Nurses, paramedics and representatives of other medical professions work for unworthy rates. It saves the system. It's the only reason he didn't break down. Investment in health always comes back. There are fewer redundancies, fewer invaliditys and just longer and better lives of Poles and Poles. I have this question: Did the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Health count how many losses and what waste of finance is generated by underfunded healthcare? Poles and Poles simply pay for it with their health, and very often with their lives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u359	Thank you, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It's already been said here, but I'll say it again. In 2017, there was the highest number of deaths in the last 27 years. It's an emergency. I don't think any of us here have any doubts that we need a rapid increase in expenditure on health funding. I would therefore like to ask the Minister - I believe that the economic results for 2017 are already known - what is the gross domestic product and what is the gap between the figure of 5,2% GDP and the figure resulting from the state budget for 2018, which was allocated to health finance. What is this gap, and will Prime Minister Morawiecki increase the budget in such a way as to cover this gap? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u361	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You can't see Minister Szumowski here because he's not here. This experiment, which the Minister himself is talking about, clearly does not work at all. The Minister is hiding behind the Minister's back, he can't stand here like a man and say what he thinks about increasing the resources for health protection. This is obviously disqualifying. [[Let's not overreact.]] This is a very serious debate, today we have a very serious debate, and the minister is gone, the minister is running away. Citizens come, there is a citizens' initiative. It so happens that important topics in Parliament are not addressed by the government, but by citizens' initiatives. The government is hiding. I would like to thank the initiative because this is indeed a very necessary debate. The PiS obviously won't give you money to protect your health because you can't see it. You can't brag about it, you can't hand someone a check for 500 PLN and say, "Listen, we're giving you something." That's why there's no 500+. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that there is this law, because we can say what could be done for these measures, these additional measures. The Modern Programme refers to prevention. Prophylaxis is something that is permanently lacking in resources. I therefore have a question as to whether you also share this view that some of the measures should be targeted at prevention in order to prevent it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to address the question to the Minister - he is not here, perhaps he will reply in that case - whether you have given the Prime Minister any conditions, any conditions, when he received a proposal to become Minister, or whether you have chosen It's just a stool. Minister, I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few weeks ago, together with President Lubnauer, we sent a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki after his words in the exposé. Let me remind you that the exposé in the material part began with health. So far the results of the announcements, the promises are not visible, but I believe that there is a chance for a trans-political agreement in at least one sphere in our country. This sphere should undoubtedly be health if we can't get along in others. We sent this letter to meet, to create... It's been replaced before. Mr Kozłowski spoke about a round table, a specific pact was spoken of by the Civic Platform, i.e. from the opposition, regardless of what party, there is a desire, willingness to cooperate, discussion with the President with the Minister, with the citizens' environments. We got an answer. It does not show that there is a desire to meet, but we understand that we can, because that is what Mr Suski, Minister Suski, writes, use the instruments that give the parliamentary mandate. I'm sure we'll use them. I would like to ask, Minister, what is the position of the government on this bill, because this is extremely important. And secondly, is there a schedule in the ministry developed in broad cooperation with patient environments, medical professions [[♪ The bell ♪]] and political parties who want to talk to you about long-term health reform? Is that what you've prepared? Was this encouragement by Prime Minister Morawiecki just a promise thrown at the Sejm during the exposé, and no government action is involved with it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u365	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 150,000 signed under this civic project. people, and millions of Poles expect such changes. They do not require our country to create new institutes of international cooperation, promotional foundations, financing Father Rydzyk and other unthinkable, unfounded expenses. Poles want to be treated with dignity by qualified health professionals, doctors duly paid for their work and satisfied with what they do. Poles want to have access to the best medical methods and procedures, use good equipment, do not stand in queues waiting for health and even life, with fear that they may not make it. The increase in healthcare expenditure is a necessity and the government's responsibility to do so. This is a civic project. You promised to listen to the Poles. Today you can see how you are listening: a shoe and arrogance, three members of the PiS in the plenary room, including one rapporteur. I have a question: Isn't this project going to be lost on the committee? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be a priority? After all, the health of Poles is the most important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u367	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u368	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would very much like the Minister to take the floor and respond to this citizens' proposal. The proposal concerns the financing of health care and we all know that money alone will not or will not solve everything. But let's look at what happened now, over the two years, and at what PiS promised: that there will be a budget health system and from the budget there will be an adequate money pool, reached 6% GDP in 2 years. Do we? We don't. He promised that the NFZ would be liquidated and that the money would be distributed to the voivodeships and possibly a new central fund would be created. Do we? We don't. Laws that don't change anything that arouse emotions, like the hospital network, which caused some institutions, especially private ones, to fall out of it. What's it for patients? Longer lines. The effect of a good change in health care does not exist. And today, thinking about what should happen, looking at the increasing queues, looking at the high mortality rate, looking at the higher personal costs of medical services, because we see what is happening, looking at the 2 years of lack of dialogue between the government and the Minister of Health with patients and with representatives of the medical community, we find that we are in a critical situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, to do anything, you have to start with that money. There is a good economic situation, Poland is in the process of economic development. What is the government's position on this proposal specifically, a reasonable citizens' proposal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u369	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u370	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I come from Lublin Voivodeship and I wanted to make you aware of how bottom-up it all looks. The administration of the Chełma Voivodeship Hospital has just applied to the Lublin Voivodeship for permission to temporarily suspend the activities of the pediatrics department from 10 to 28 February. The reason is for doctors to terminate the opt-out clause. As the director explains, due to the lack of possibility to provide medical care in the ward, in accordance with the procedure, the Lublin Voivodeship has been requested to allow temporary suspension of the branch's activities. The deputy director of the hospital in Chełma said that five doctors, including four pediatric specialists, work in the pediatrics department. There's also one resident who's not on duty yet. Two specialist doctors have made an opt-out clause that allows doctors to work more than 48 hours a week. That's what caused the task force's difficulties. In the Lublin Voivodeship in 21 hospitals the opt-out clause has so far been stated by 117 resident doctors and 140 specialist doctors. I have a question, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister of Health is going to do. Because it's gonna be like a snowball, it's just starting, it's gonna harvest. How many doctors have said this clause in Poland so far? How many will he say in the next few months? What are you going to do about it? How do you want to treat Poles? How You Want to Keep Your Health [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your constituents? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u371	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to speak with Anna April, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Very often there is a sentence about the lack of specialists, about the fact that there are queues. Of course, such a charge is brought against the Government of Law and Justice in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, the training of every doctor lasts at least 6 years, of course we are talking about specialists. So today we're consummating decisions that were made six years ago, at least five years ago. Because the shortest specialization is five years old. Today you are accusing us that there are not enough specialists that there are queues. It's not enough. [[They're gone, my fellow Member.]] That's because it's $3.5,000. e.g. Graduates of higher education, medical schools only about 2.5 thousand. has had the opportunity to learn as part of residence. You can laugh, you can mock, but you did. In 2017, we secured these residents at the level of 4,000, over 4,000, which is more than there are medical graduates. In 2016 similarly. That's the reality. Of course, this effect will have to wait five, six years, because that's how long it takes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] training of a specialist doctor. That's the truth. Don't charge us with no doctors. There isn't, because that's the kind of dramatic decision you made. You didn't educate doctors. That, unfortunately, is the cruel truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u373	Thank you, Member. Another question - Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We've trained doctors, trained them, and that's the amount that's been securing about 7,000 a year. Residents on a yearly basis. But I have another question for the Minister. We heard a representative of the PiS say that the expenditure on health care last year was increasing and there was so much money that we didn't really know There was something to spend that money on. [[Voice from the room: Rydzyk.]] And it turned out that there was something to spend on, because, as you remember, there was a special act that made the tender in October and 16 dentists appeared at the Ministry of Health on 21 December. I looked at the picture. It is a vehicle based on the Mercedes Vito or Sprinter and it is a dental office. PLN 24 million was spent on this. I would like to ask, Minister, what is the effectiveness of this action. I drive around Poland, I drive around the region, in my voivodeship, and I haven't met any dentobus. Are they still unpacked? Isn't there a dentist? Is there no gas? 24 million, Minister. Please tell me what the efficiency of these offices is, because I know that the interest of dentists in these dentobuses was practically zero. Twenty-four million. [[Applause]] [[No, it's not. It's huge. It's absolutely not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u376	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I already said in this House that for 28 years none of the newly appointed healers, i.e. ministers, has healed Poland and Polish health services. This is where the citizens came up with a project that needs to be supported. Therefore, I have a question: If the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda responds positively to the appeal of the Kukiz 15 and Paweł Kukiz Club and a round table on health care reform will be set up, can the representatives of all medical professions be counted on to take an active part in this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Underneath this civic project about financing health care, 150 thousand have been signed. people within 2 weeks. Increasing the financing of healthcare should be a priority for all Members in this House. Unfortunately, by observing Law and Justice, I see that not necessarily. [[Eight years, eight years, eight years.]] Why are you so eager to transfer the Poles' money to the propaganda TVP... [[Shooting range.]] Or the shooting range, or Fr.Rydzyk, not the health care department? After all, only last year you handed over about PLN 2 billion to the Polish Television, which would be enough for the renovation of dozens of hospitals throughout Poland. The Prime Minister boasts of record tax revenues. If this is so good, can we not afford to increase the financing of health services according to this bill to reach 5.2% GDP in 2018? We are asking the government kindly to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u379	And last question - Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club. I would like to ask you, sir, to ask this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dr. Applicant! It's worth having dreams. I have these dreams, too, and I hope that this project will be adopted and these 6.8% It will be implemented in 2021, but we may be wrong. Somehow I don't feel like this bill is gonna pass, and it's gonna happen. But, Minister, I have a question. Two years of government. Prime Minister, then the Deputy Prime Minister prepared a bill that you would hand out 500+ to the people. I understand that this money for this 500+ has already been prepared, so they don't narrate about VAT sealing. So here's my question: I don't know whether it's for the Minister or the Prime Minister or the new Minister of Finance. I'd like to ask, because in these two years, actually tell me what the amount of tax sealing was. And really get that money into health care. [[3 billion.]] To paraphrase your president, who says: from 2 to 3 or even 4 terms, I can guess that he means that after 4 terms, i.e. after 16 years, maybe [[♪ The bell ♪]] could reach a threshold of 6,8% GDP in health care. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u381	Thank you, sir. I will first ask you the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala and then a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr. Tomasz Dybek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u382	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with a basic question that's been repeated. Well, I would like to start by pointing out that there is no government position on the citizens' bill, which is currently under debate. On the other hand, I would like to point out that on 24 November in this House, a law was passed amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, which provides for an increase in healthcare expenditure of up to 6%. gross domestic product in 2025. [[It's been a long time.]] According to the draft, for which I will remind you - there were 436 Members, against - 1, abstained from the 1st of these two... I mean, the Member who was against, and the Member who abstained, were from the Kukiz party15. [[Applause]] If the Kukiz15 party did not support the project to increase to 6%... [[Scandal.]] [[That means you have to bring it down to 5.]] ...and today he's officially talking about increasing to 6.8% Everyone should answer themselves. In accordance with the draft law adopted on 24 November 2017, pursuant to Article. 131d paragraph. 2 of that law, the Minister responsible for Health shall determine annually, by means of a regulation, the types of benefits guaranteed, taking into account the principles and means of public spending and the need to ensure the availability of those benefits, taking into account the waiting lists for the benefit referred to in Article. 20, as well as the type of benefits, taking into account the obligation to provide special health care to children, pregnant women, disabled persons and the elderly, and maps of health needs. I think this is the answer to Mr Owl's question from Modern. It is about the issues of what is a priority for the Minister of Health. [[But is it already, or is it on paper?]] This is the bill that was passed in this House on 24 November 2017. [[So long, paper.]] It shall apply from 1 January 2018. With regard to questions concerning whether the Minister can ensure that he will implement the assumptions arising from the civil project, I would like to say that the project is identical, differing only on one point, i.e. in terms of reaching the percentage of GDP as well as in terms of years. I would like to remind you that the Law and Justice declared in their pre-election announcements to increase expenditure to 6% GDP, what has been done. [[Where?]] [[Minister, really...]] As regards the next questions on how much GDP is, I would like to remind you that GDP data for 2017 will not be published until May 2018 and that is to say today, what is the output gap, what is the GDP, is too early, as there are only early forecasts. As regards the next questions, I would like to say that in 2015 the expenditure on health care provided in the budget was 4,46% , the plan for 2017 was 4.58% , plan in 2017 after changes- 4,78% which indicates that the Law and Justice Government is increasing its expenditure on health protection. What is written in the 2017 project are the minimum values. If measures were to arise, there was an economic prosperity, the Law and Justice Government would increase its expenditure regardless of what is written in the project. [[More dentobuses.]] As far as the issue of dentobuses is concerned, competitions for dentobus benefits have been announced. [[Where are they now?]] [[I've been hearing about this for two years.]] [[How's it been for two years? They've just been bought.]] Like for two years, if... Excuse me, but the contest for... [[But you're announcing it.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u383	Mrs... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Excuse me, the benefit contest has been announced. As far as I know, there's a lot of people who are willing to give benefits in these dentobuses. Let me remind you that for the first time there have been benefits that will be provided in dentobuses. It hasn't happened so far. We changed the basket of guaranteed benefits and introduced this benefit. Now it's called a competition. As far as I know... [[When's the settlement?]] I think there's gonna be an announcement this month and the dentobuses are about to leave. Let us not forget that in the Ministry of Health at the end there is a law on child care, which also includes dental care in schools. I would just like to mention that it has been stated that in 2017 the income of the NFZ resulting from the contribution increased. No, because overall expenditure on health care in 2017 increased by 8 million, of which 5 million is revenue from contributions, and 3 million is an increase in expenditure in the state budget. I would like to remind you that PLN 1 billion was related to the repayment of over-executions for the years 2008-2017, the rest of the funds were mainly spent on the purchase of hospital equipment. So I do not agree with the statement that the increase in health expenditure has only occurred in the NFZ. [[Minister, is 114 million less for health care in this year's budget true? Answer me.]] [[The Minister is poor.]] Mr President, this is not the time to ask questions, it is the time to answer questions, to refer to the project by a representative of the Ministry. There you go, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: In general, I referred to most of the questions. As for Mrs Wróblewska's question, I will try to answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much and I ask the representative of the Committee of the Legislative Initiative of Mr Tomasz Dybek to answer the questions raised during the debate. You're welcome. [[Will Minister Szumowski tell us why he is not interested in such an important debate?]] The Minister doesn't have to attend a Parliamentary meeting... [[Voices from the hall: But he should.]] ...may direct its representatives, for example, in the persons of the Deputy Ministers, Undersecretaries of State or the Secretarys of State. It's a possibility, and that's why we have this representation today. [[I'd really like to meet the new minister.]] I ask Mr. Tomasz Dybek to answer, and I ask you to allow me to answer the questions you have asked. [[Voice from the courtroom: Why don't you tell us what you think about the Minister's absence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your questions, but before I speak to them, I am very sorry - I say this - as an ordinary citizen, a patient. Yeah, well, I'm not a doctor, I'm a physio therapist and an academic teacher, but I'll be in your hands someday. Non-members gather anywhere, establish an agreement of medical professions, there is a historic moment, 7 months - I stress: 7 months - two civic projects. You have your parties. You guys assumed it, too. In seven months, you've written two laws like we have? We've raised 400,000. signatures. I'm sorry, with all due respect to you, with all due respect to the minister, it would be a good idea if the chief minister I had the chance to talk to wasn't that long ago, two weeks ago. [[Applause]] With all due respect to the personal culture of those people who have paid 400,000. signatures, citizens, your sovereign, for God's sake. That's one thing. Secondly, you were talking about referral to the subcommittee... [[To the committee.]] ...or the committee. On 19 July 2017, I had the pleasure of being president of the Civil Committee and presenting a draft law on minimum remuneration, under which we collected a quarter of a million signatures. This was then addressed to the committee during the vote. I waited culturally. On 22 December, I wrote to the chairman of the Seym Health Committee, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, and the chairman of the Seym Public Finance Committee, Mr Jacek Sasin. December 22nd, today is February 7th. We didn't even reply. I didn't get any answers. That's how you treat 400,000. signatures. Thank you. I'm not a politician. [[Mr. Bartosz Arłukowicz, do you know which party he's from?]] Ma'am, madam, I'm not a politician. I'm a patient, and I'm about to tell you what kind of patient I was on the 15th of July when I heard an answer in a lively hospital when I was lying on my bed. [[Did you know Bartosz Arłukowicz is from the Civic Platform?]] It may even be from Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, I am not interested as a patient. I was interested, I heard from the vice president: When will the neurosurgeon be? God willing. This is how Polish patients are treated. This is how you treat Polish patients. [[Don't charge me for the president.]] I do not account for you, I address you, to every Member, to every Member present in this House. To answer two short questions to Mr Galla, I will say: maps of health needs. And to answer Mrs Joanna Big Guy - I don't know if I've turned my name - I'm going to say: Minister, as the previous ministers chose one professional group. He's talking to the residents. I don't know, I'm not a resident, although residents belong to the Medical Professor's Agreement. He's talking to one group. Ladies and gentlemen! Show me the hospital, show me the clinic where there are only two medical professions. One minister spoke to the nurses. With all due respect to all the medical professions sitting upstairs with a nurse's friend, the head of the union, did they have to win the money? They won. The next minister spoke to the residents. 500 PLN for residency, 1200 PLN for specialization. My question is very simple. My colleagues, a physiotherapist colleague, a speech therapist colleague, another physiotherapist colleague, diagnes, psychologists, electroradiologists - are they supposed to talk to the Ministry in this way? Did you finally... We ask the Ministry to come and look at the whole health care system - whether it's a round table, whether it's a social dialogue board, whether it's a trialogue for health - and talk to everyone and not negotiate with each group. Ask these people if they received a 500 PLN raise in the last 20 years. Ask the physiotherapist. No, they never did. And you know why? Because the Minister said minimal. As a member of the trilateral team, I will answer you: minimum law, minimum wage law in health care. That's the minimum, but the minimum is the physiotherapists, 95%. physiotherapists. Minimum. And the impudence - I stress: impudence - of people, in this case some directors is that the minimum is a service of years. Service - 2100 PLN gross after 5 years of work, after 5 years of study, 6 thousand PLN. hours, 2.5 thousands. hours of practice. That's the right money? That's the right salary for a health worker? You're only saying this: nurse and doctor. [[That's what you're saying.]] Most of you say nurse and doctor. And where are the other medical professions? Let me see. I wanted to emphasize one thing: so far, no government has been able to make radical decisions in terms of ensuring decent conditions for the treatment of Poles. You have a chance to do this, no matter what kind of group you're from, but until you realise that the functions of Members, Ministers and even Prime Ministers are not lifelong and the possibility of treatment in a government hospital will one day end until you cross the path of a common, grey patient until you understand it. I wish you, as a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, as a proxy, to cross the path of an ordinary patient, from first registration to recovery, and then you will understand the patients standing in queues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u385	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am presenting my position on the citizens' draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. In Poland, after years of neglect of previous governments, we are still struggling with limited access to healthcare for citizens. The improvement of this state requires huge resources and changes in the funding system. It is clear that measures to increase funding need to be worked out in advance. We appreciate the current government for its consequence in removing the negative effects caused by the negligence of the previous authority and broadening the access of Poles to guaranteed benefits by increasing the financing of the health care system. At the end of last year, the Law on the provision of public-funded health care was adopted, which concerned the amount of funds allocated to health protection. It is clear that the government wants to gradually increase funding for health care from year to year. The Act makes it clear that from 2018 to 2024 the amount of resources allocated to health protection will gradually be increased in GDP. It must also be said here that, after 2024, the funds transferred to health care will not be less than 6%. GDP. I have no objection to the subject matter of the citizens' bill itself. We should increase funding for health care, and the current government is doing so. The Act adopted at the end of 2017 shows this. We could increase the resources endlessly, but we must remember that the state budget is not made of rubber. You can't stretch it. Some things take time, all the more so because of the neglect of the previous government we have a lot of catching up to do today. The proposed increase in funds in the citizens' draft law in my view today is unattainable. Not because I don't see the problems that are currently in health care, but because it's too short a period of time to make with 4.67% GDP over 2 years to reach 6.2% GDP for health protection. And after 2020 health funding would not be less than 6,8% GDP. The idea is right, but the reality is cruel. We must be realistic, we cannot increase measures in such a short period of time, it must be gradual action. As I said before, the purpose of the project is right, but raising the level of benefits from less than 5% up to more than 6% GDP in less than 2 years is unachievable. Therefore, next to Free and Solidarnia, he will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u387	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the amendment of the law on public-funded healthcare provided by print no. 2212 to the Health Committee for consideration. A request for a second reading was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 7 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to sign up for a statement? I can't hear you. I'm closing the list. We're about to begin making statements. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 22 January 2018 tenders for the next stage of the renovation of the bridge by the Vistula Bridge in Tczew were opened in Tczew County Old Town. The only offer I made was too expensive. The county had about PLN 35 million reserved for this purpose, and Banimex demanded PLN 49 million. Therefore, the invitation to tender for the next stage of the renovation of this beautiful historic bridge in Tczew had to be cancelled. It is a pity, because it is a monument of infrastructure architecture of the 19th century on a global scale, which pains me as an architect, but above all an important communication facility for residents on both sides of the Vistula, namely Lisewa Malborski and Tczew. I would like to remind you that this has already been another tender. The previous one also had to be annulled, because it turned out that the county did not have enough money. In order for the funds to be sufficient, the stage was broken down into two smaller sub-tasks. It's a pity that even after such operations, money wasn't enough. That is why last year, and this year too, I tabled an amendment to the national budget for booking money to help the old-timers complete the renovation of this bridge. This year I asked for funding from the central budget of PLN 30 million, which would be sufficient for the implementation of the second sub-task in its entirety. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected by the PiS Members, even those from our constituency, they did not support this project. In the previous term of the Sejm, money was secured for the first stage of renovation. It has been completed and further work is still in place. Currently, there is no way that the district government or the city of Tczew can manage to finance the renovation of this beautiful historical crossing through the Vistula, and the rejection of my amendment may prevent state aid, especially when for the second time it turns out that this cheapest bid in the tender exceeds the financial possibilities of the local government by as much as 15 million PLN. As a Member from Pomerania, I am making amendments to the state budget for another year, and I am asking for funds for further renovation of the bridge in Tczew, but every time without the support of the PiS Members who have a majority in the Sejm, this proposal is not accepted. Nevertheless, I promise you that I will continue to seek the necessary resources and also this way, from the Seym Council, I am asking the Minister of Infrastructure and the Pomerania PiS Members to support my efforts to repair the bridge through the Vistula River in Tczew. The inhabitants of Tczewski and Malbork districts deserve a safe and comfortable crossing through the Vistula. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u389	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Simon Giżyński from Law and Justice. I can't see. Therefore, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u390	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 675 years old, Sianova. Sianów is a city located in the Central Pomerania at the foot of Chełmska Mountain, on the eastern side of the hill along the route Szczecin - Gdansk. It could be said that the city lies near Koszalin, if not for the fact that in Sianów it is Koszalin that lies next to Sianów. Local jokes, however, do not change the fact that these two cities are friendly and connected to each other by very strong economic and social relationships. The fact is, however, that in the near future the Sawns were to be exchanged more frequently in Poland than Koszalin. This was because of the famous Sian matches factory, the national giant in this area, who made the city famous, made the matches its trademark. The way in Sianów they show loyalty to this matchy tradition is noteworthy. In the representative place of the city they erected a statue of Girls with Matches, which refers to the past, but is also an expression of the local charity tradition continued for many years. It is also connected with Koszalin by a special road leading through the summit of the Chełm Mountain, which passes next to the Marian shrine known since the Middle Ages, and was built by Polish insurgents interned in Prusai in November after the fall of the Uprising. Today the top of the mountain is decorated with a monument erected to their memory. Sianov was also involved in the kidnapping of Prince Bogusław X of Pomeranian Pomeranian by the town of Koszalin - in retaliation for the robbery by the prince's householder on Koszalin's merchants - they sent an armed force to Sianów to invade the city, almost killing the prince and then taking him into captivity, transporting him to Koszalin on a wagon to the manure. The prince's retaliation was severe. The Koshalians must have begged the prince for mercy on their knees. It is worth adding that the wife of this ruler, who received the nickname "The Great" and united the entire Western Pomerania, was the Polish princess, Anna Jagiellonian, daughter of our king, Kazimierz Jagiellonian. The turbulent, unusual history of the land of Sianów resembles a varied, covered with forests and moraine hills of the landscape of this beautiful land crossed by rivers, shiny with panoramic panoramic lakes. The municipality adheres to two large coastal lakes - Jamno and Bukowo. Today, these values are used for tourism development. Canoe routes, nature reserves, among others yodel and murky, hiking trails through the Chełm Mountain are just some examples of interesting tourist attractions. The hayland boasts historic architecture, Gothic churches and plenty of well preserved historical chess buildings. Today it is a municipality and a city looking for its opportunity, solving in an ingenious, innovative way its problems, also taking care of historical heritage, implementing many ideas in the field of culture, social care, entrepreneurship. Around Sianów there is the construction of a ring road, which will be part of the S6 road and will solve the city's biggest problem by getting out of the centre of heavy car traffic. Today, the mayor of Maciej Berlicki is the head of the Sian government. From here, from the speaker of the Polish Sejm, I would like to give him my warmest wishes on the occasion of 675 years of the city of Sianów. May the Sawns be an ornament of the Pomerania and an example to others. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u391	Thank you, sir. The last statement today will be made by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since January 27 there has been diplomatic and political aggression of Israel against Poland. Against Poland there are very large guns, huge acts in international politics, and Israel, with the mouth of its prime minister, its leading politicians, attacks our country without any embarrassment, proclaiming historical falsehood. In view of this situation, the Polish Parliament at its first meeting, which began yesterday, 6 February, is silent. The Polish Parliament, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, does not take the floor by the mouth of all the parties sitting in the High House. We do not have a debate about this crisis, which is something fundamental. That's what the state is for. That's what the Sejm is for. We do not have a debate, we do not have a resolution of the Sejm, which should be adopted unanimously, by the acclamation that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland does not agree with the policy of slander against the Polish state, that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland today takes a clear voice, has a clear position, not only in defence of historical truth, but above all a position in defence of political sovereignty, which is being violated by foreign states, trying to dictate to us what should be found in Polish laws. This is unacceptable. It is terrible that the governing camp, the camp of PiS - which so much, spoke so much about sovereignty, which always spoke so much about the fact that Polish foreign policy is getting up from its knees - this is the camp that ordered silence today, and the whole opposition, its liberal part, is also silent. High Seym! That shouldn't have happened. It is not possible to act softly and meekly against aggression, because such an attitude merely outrageous to the aggressor. Such an attitude is conducive to the continuation of conflict and, unfortunately, to two fundamental issues. The first point, namely the amendment of the IPN Act, really contradicts the kind of mythology, political correctness that prevails in Israel and not only in Israel, and which Israel wants to impose on international opinion. This political correctness assumes that the suffering of Jews during World War II, the Holocaust, the experience of genocide is completely unique, is something completely unique and incomparable with nothing else that other nations have experienced. I even wish it was the only genocide in the 20th century or even the only genocide in World War II, but unfortunately it wasn't. And Poles are one of the nations of victims during World War II. The mere reminder of this fact is a stone of image for Israeli identity, historical policy. The second area of this policy is the claim that all other nations in Europe are the nations of the perpetrators or co-culprits of the Holocaust - as communities, not only as single evil people, criminals, people of evil will, degenerates. Because they were like that, and they were also in Poland. No one sane can deny that. Nor does research against this law, which the Polish Sejm adopted on 26 January. But that's not the point. The point is to accuse the entire national community and the Polish state. And that is the political purpose of Israel. And that is why this conflict will be permanent, because it is the reason of the state of Israel to present the history of World War II. Whoever is deluding himself here or cheating, instead of taking a firm stand on this matter, tells something about a dialogue that looks so that they lie and insult, and we, unfortunately, the Polish state ruled by the PiS, because of course not the National Movement or those who want real sovereignty, are meekly directing the bill to the Constitutional Court... And the second thing, of course, is the one that's just gonna get on the agenda. It is a question of claims, it is a question of American Law No 447, it is a question of our economic security, which unfortunately is linked to this defaming campaign that Israel and the Jewish environments are running against Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The shame that the Polish Sejm does not debate this issue is that the Polish Sejm is silent about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-07-sejm-58-2.u393	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 8 February 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 07]]
