ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr Wojciech King and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members King Gajewska and Wojciech the King. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - Foreign Affairs - hour 10, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h. 16, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10, - The Parliamentary Justice Repair Team - at 3 p.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Motorcyclists and Quads - hour 13, - Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Recovering of Independence by Poland - hour. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - State aid for housing expenses in the first years of renting an apartment, - amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in no. 2664 and 2687 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda: 15. Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2017 and a draft Commission resolution on discharge (prints No 2559, 2620 and 2656). 16. Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Information on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury in 2017, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (prints Nos 2525 and 2634). 17. Report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2017 (print No 2599) together with the position of the Committee on Public Finance (print No 2657). I ask Mr Andrzej Szlachta to submit a report to the committee on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and a draft resolution on discharge. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u4	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! Mr. President of the Supreme Chamber of Control! Mr. President of the National Bank of Poland! Dear guests! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finances on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017, together with a proposal on discharge to the Council of Ministers for that period. The state budget for 2017 was the first author's budget of the Government of Law and Justice of the Sejm, prepared under the direction of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Mateusz Morawiecki. I have a personal satisfaction that this report concerns a very well-designed and implemented budget, which has served Poles and Poland well last year. [[Applause]] It was a groundbreaking budget in many ways. In 2017, the gross domestic product at constant prices amounted to 4.6% against the planned amount of 3.6%. At the same time, it was 2.2 percentage points higher than in the European Union, where it was only 2.4%. It was also higher than global GDP growth of 3.8%. This growth was not an increase of one year, the Polish budget, Polish GDP has a growth trend. In the first quarter of this year, it grew most throughout the European Union, counting quarter by quarter according to Eurostat data. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2017, Polish GDP increased by 1.6%. According to EU statistics, our economy grew to 5.2% in the first quarter of 2018. The Treasury debt decreased from 50% in 2016 to 46.8% GDP at the end of 2017. Gross domestic product in 2017 amounted to PLN 1 982 100 million. This year, the three largest rating agencies raised the perspective of assessing the creditworthiness of Poland. The positive perspective reflects solid economic and fiscal performance of Poland and points to an increased likelihood of raising Poland's rating in the coming months. Public debt has fallen to 48.5% GDP of 51.9% GDP in 2016 The deficit of the public finance sector, calculated according to national methodology, decreased from 2,5% GDP in 2016 to only 0.7% GDP in 2017 The general government deficit, calculated according to the EU methodology, has also been reduced ESA 2010. In 2017, it amounted to PLN 33 billion and amounted to 1.7% GDP. This phenomenon is worth noting that the sector's deficit has taken place under the conditions of broad social policy programmes, including the 500+ programme or pension reform. The good situation in Poland was mainly influenced by the excellent economic situation in the internal market, in which the consumer boom was maintained. In addition, the external situation and, in particular, stable growth in the euro area were good. The growth structure of demand was conducive to the implementation of the budget. The increase in household consumption was particularly high, with an increase of 4.7%. and was the highest since the outbreak of the global financial crisis in 2008. - and an increase of 8.7% imports, i.e. the category of final demand, which involved the highest tax revenue. A record-breaking increase in consumption has been the result of rising incomes and wages for decades. In 2017, after more than a quarter of a century of transformation, unemployment practically disappeared in Poland. Although the rate of registered unemployment was at the end of that year and is still 6.6%, measured according to a more economically sound BAEL methodology, the surveys on a random sample of persons have actually fallen to 4.4%. Given the significant component of the so-called. Structural unemployment - e.g. people without any professional qualifications, which are, according to the Central Statistical Office, about 1/3 of the unemployed registered - unemployment has disappeared as a phenomenon from the employer's point of view. This also means increasing difficulties in finding people willing to work, but consequently constant pressure on nominal wage growth, which increased by 5.4% in 2017 with an annual upward trend. The nominal increase in wages, also supported by other factors, including in particular the increase in social benefits, which are part of the effect of the government's policy, while at the same time a relatively small increase in prices, was the main source of rapid growth in consumption, good economics in the market and, consequently, exceptionally favourable macroeconomic conditions for the implementation of the state budget. It should be noted that Poland's economic performance in 2017 proved surprisingly good, and growth rates higher than expectations of both domestic and foreign analysts. Of course, this has been conducive to the implementation of the budget this year, especially in view of the relatively cautious macroeconomic assumptions adopted. Less than expected was the increase in investment, which amounted to 3.4%. Despite the acceleration from quarter to quarter of investment growth, gross fixed capital expenditure, the return on investment to gross domestic product decreased throughout the year. The plan of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki indicates that an investment rate of 25% is needed. This is to be served by the so-called. Business Constitution - package 5 laws to make life easier for entrepreneurs. At the end of 2017, the acceleration of investment was mainly linked to greater public investment, in particular co-financed by European Union funds. On the other hand, investment by companies that have remained stagnated in previous years is crucial to the ability to maintain growth. This year's forecasts are optimistic, as shown by the indicators preceding PMI for the first half of 2018. This indicator for June was 54 points in the industrial production area. This means, according to analysts, that the growth trend in industry will extend to record 45 months in a row. Growing PMA readings above 50 points signal a rapid growth rate of economic activity. When assessing the implementation of the revenue of the State budget in 2017, it can be concluded that the revenue realised amounted to PLN 350.4 billion and was higher than the forecast of the Act of 25 billion PLN, i.e. 7.7% , and compared to revenue from 2016 it was higher by PLN 35.7 billion, i.e. over 11%. Tax revenues were higher by 15.4% than in the previous year. The clear increase in tax revenue was due to good economic situation, improved tax collection efficiency and a shift from January 2017 to December 2016. Non-tax revenue, representing 9.6% State budget revenue decreased by PLN 6.5 billion compared to last year's revenue, i.e. over 16%. They exceeded the forecast set out in the Budget Act by more than 11.2 billion, i.e. 49.8% , which was related to a higher than planned PLN 8.1 billion deposit from the profit of the National Bank of Poland and higher revenues. In 2017, the revenue from the tax on goods and services amounted to PLN 156.8 billion and was more than 13 billion higher than the amount forecasted in the Budget Act. This means the implementation of the forecast of VAT revenue contained in the Budget Act for 2017 at 109,3%. In comparison with the 2016 revenue, VAT revenues were almost 24% higher. One of the most important reasons for such positive influences was the determined fight against tax frauds. In 2017, excise revenue amounted to PLN 68.3 billion and amounted to close to 99% forecasts from the budget law. Compared to the 2016 revenue, excise tax revenues increased by PLN 2.5 billion, i.e. 3.6%. The increase in revenue in 2016 was recorded in all major items, including energy products, tobacco, alcohol and passenger cars, which resulted, among others. from the regulations implemented in 2017 and the activities of control services aimed at combating the grey zone and from increased consumer demand. In 2017, the Game Tax Revenue Act failed to fully implement the planned Game Tax revenue. The plan was made in 96%, but the revenue generated was higher than the 2016 revenue by 16.6%. The highest growth was recorded in the betting segment and is linked directly to the Act of 15 December 2016 amending the Gambling Act and certain other laws aimed at reducing the grey zone in that market. The income from personal income tax was realised in the amount of PLN 52.7 billion and was higher than planned by 3.3% and was 9.2% higher than the revenue from 2016. At the same time, corporate income tax revenues have been realised [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the amount of almost 29.8 billion, which represented 99.8% plan for 2017 and 112.8% revenue realised in 2016 In 2017...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u5	Please come to the end, sir, because your time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u6	Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Public Finances at its meetings on 13, 15, 19, 20 and 21 June 2018 with the participation of representatives of the Sejm committees, adopted a report on the implementation of the state budget together with the analysis of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the conclusions of the committees and requested the High Sejm to approve the attached draft resolution. I am convinced that the majority of your Members will rise to such a level of objectivity that, according to their conscience, wishing Poland well, they will adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u7	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2017 and an opinion on discharge for the Council of Ministers. [[That's 15 minutes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Dear Ministers, Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, In carrying out the obligation under Article. 204 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present to the High House an analysis of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2017, together with the opinion of the College of the Supreme Audit Chamber on discharge for the Council of Ministers for 2017. The Supreme Audit Chamber positively assessed the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. It also stated that the Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 provides reliable information and data on the amount of revenue, expenditure, debts and liabilities and the result of the State budget in all material respects. Our assessments are based on 316 controls in 297 units. We have checked almost all the budget managers, the largest state-owned special-purpose funds, selected executive agencies, state legal entities, local government units and other public expenditure entities, including 123 grant beneficiaries. We also examined the correctness of the operation of the state budget by the National Bank of Poland and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The detailed results of the audit are presented in separate information provided to the Marshal and to the Sejm committees. We have assessed the implementation of the state budget in individual parts and the implementation of the financial plans of the audited entities on a three-step scale. Among the 140 issues, the highest ones dominated. However, the number of positive assessments decreased from 118 in 2016 to 111 in 2017. On the other hand, the number of descriptive assessments expressed in the event of irregularities has increased. In 2016 there were 21 and in 2017 there were 26. There were also more negative assessments. In 2017, we negatively assessed the implementation of the plans of three units: the Polish Space Agency, the Fund - Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers and the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. In 2016, the only negative assessment was the evaluation of the implementation of the financial plan of the Polish Space Agency. The opinion on the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the state budget was formulated in particular on the basis of an examination of the accounts and budgetary reports. We gave a positive opinion on the correctness of the accounts for all 20 budget managers audited in this respect. We have examined accounting evidence documenting expenditure of a total amount of PLN 114 billion. We have examined the correctness of the annual reports in 103 budgetary parts and 182 third-degree directors. We gave a positive opinion on the reports in about 94 component owners in almost 90% of third-degree directors. The irregularities identified in the reports were corrected during the audit or did not have a significant impact on the correctness of the data indicated in the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. The opinion expressed on the reliability of the data shall be based on objective evidence obtained during the audit studies carried out in accordance with international auditing standards. High Seym! The implementation of the Budget Act in 2017 was more favourable in macroeconomic terms than in the previous year and better than expected. World production in 2017 increased by 3.8% , which was the best result since 2011. The euro area countries have been developing as soon as possible since 2007 and economic growth has generally been higher in Eastern Europe than in the western part of Europe. The world's trade volume has also increased by almost 5%. , and low interest rates, moderate raw material prices and relatively stable geopolitical conditions have led investment outlays in highly developed economies to increase by 3.5% compared to their volume in 2016. Gross domestic product in Poland in 2017 increased really by 4.6% , while this increase was 3% in 2016. The main driver for economic development was private consumption, which was influenced by the increase in the number of employees and by the increase in household income caused in particular by the effects of the The development of the level of investment was also positive in 2017. While in 2016 the real gross fixed capital expenditure decreased by more than 8% compared to 2015 However, since the first quarter of 2017, the value of the investment has started to increase again. Throughout 2017 gross fixed capital expenditure was - in real terms - 3.4% higher than in 2016 The average annual rate of gold decreased both in relation to the US dollar - by 4% and to the euro - by 2.3%. The appreciation of the gold in 2017 was influenced in particular by the flow of portfolio capital to Poland. Higher import dynamics than export dynamics have reduced the positive balance of trade in goods. However, thanks to the record high balance of the exchange of services, Poland recorded a surplus in the current balance of payments account for the first time since the mid-1990s. It was 0.3%. gross domestic product. The projections of the main macroeconomic parameters adopted for the draft budget law for 2017 have proved to be underestimated. GDP growth was 1 percentage point higher than expected and the consumer price growth rate was 0.7 percentage points higher than forecast. The European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the National Bank of Poland underestimated these parameters in a similar scale. Indeed, the rate of registered unemployment, which at the end of 2017, was 6.6% lower than forecasted by the Ministry of Finance against the forecasted 8%. In 2017, the number of unemployed registered in employment offices in Poland decreased by almost 254 thousand. persons. High Seym! The state budget, the budget of the European funds and the financial plans of the non-budget units of the public finance sector have been implemented in accordance with the budget law. The total revenue of the state budget and the European budget amounted to PLN 398 billion in 2017 and was higher than that of PLN 44.3 billion in the previous year. State budget revenue amounted to 350.4 billion in 2017 and amounted to 88% Total revenue. They were almost 36 billion higher than the revenues realised in the previous year and almost 25 billion higher than the forecast. They made it possible to finance 93.3% expenditure, while in the two previous years this figure was 87%. The highest share of state budget revenue, reaching 90% They had tax revenue. This share increased by 3.2 percentage points compared to the previous year. This was at the expense of a reduction in the share of non-tax income. Tax revenue amounted to PLN 315.3 billion and was more than 14 billion higher than the forecast in the Budget Act. For this difference in 94% high implementation of revenue from the tax on goods and services, which was 13.3 billion PLN higher than laid down in the Budget Act, has been achieved. The revenue from other main tax sources was close to the forecast. The increase in tax revenue compared to 2016 was due to a good economic situation, improved tax collection efficiency and a shift in taxes on goods and services from the first half of 2017 to December 2016. The Minister for Development and Finance recognized the risks and consequences fairly, initiated and implemented legislative and organisational changes aimed at combating fraud against goods and services. A wide range of changes have been made in sealing the collection of this and other taxes. Among them were: the so-called. VAT sealing package, criminal regulation to combat VAT fraud, the obligation to transfer tax data in the form of a single control file, fuel and transport packages, solutions to reduce irregularities in gambling and to reduce from 15 000. Euros up to 15 000 zł limit value of transactions between traders executed without a payment account. In a gradual manner, IT tools were introduced to enable tax administrations to verify more efficiently both at central and local levels the data provided by taxpayers in purchase and sale records and VAT returns. Since 1 March 2017, the National Tax Administration has been operating, which has been opened inter alia. to increase the efficiency of cooperation between tax administrations, improve the flow of information, improve the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud and the recovery of tax and customs arrears. A comprehensive assessment of the effects of the new tax administration structure will, of course, be possible after a long period of time. At present, it is difficult to make clear to what extent the increase in tax revenues was the result of sealing and organisational measures and to what extent the result of economic recovery. At the end of 2017, the amount of tax arrears amounted to PLN 92.4 billion. It was higher than at the end of the previous year by PLN 15.6 billion. Enforcement authorities have recovered 3.7 billion tax arrears, that's almost 20% More than a year ago. The downloadability of current revenues has improved. According to the preliminary estimates of the Ministry of Finance, the VAT gap decreased from almost 24% in 2015 to around 14%. in 2017 [[May I? Yes, you can.]] However, it should be borne in mind that estimates of this magnitude are often subject to correction over time. The tax arrears of previous years have been made worse for this purpose. The problem remained a high level of hard-to-execute backlog. Enforcement proceedings against tax fraud entities were not effective, in particular by means of invoices not demonstrating actual turnover. Of the outstanding tax amounts charged by the tax and tax authorities pursuant to Article. 108 of the Act of March 2014 on the tax on goods and services, which imposes an obligation on the entity issuing the invoice to pay the tax shown therein, was enforced in 2017 less than 1% fixed amounts of entitlements. This means that the high detection of tax fraud did not translate into the recovery of measured tax amounts. The outstanding amounts resulting from decisions under this provision amounted to PLN 43,4 billion at the end of 2017. Non-tax revenues in 2017 amounted to 33.7 billion and were 6.5 billion less than in the previous year. However, it should be borne in mind that the revenues generated in 2016 from the broadband auction were one-off and did not recur in 2017. Non-tax revenues were 11 billion higher than projected. This resulted, in particular, from an increase of more than 8 billion planned payments from the NBP's profit. High Seym! European budget revenue in 2017 amounted to 47.6 billion. They accounted for 79% the plan set out in the Budget Act compared to the implementation in 2016. The revenue of the European budget was higher by 8.5 billion. As in previous years, the revenue from the budget of European funds was not the same as the revenue from the budget of the European Union and other foreign sources. European funds shall be included in the revenue of the budget of European funds after they have been transferred to the budget part of the revenue of the budget of European funds, not at the time of their impact on Poland. The introduction in 2016 of a procedure in the Ministry of Finance on the rules for forecasting revenue under the budget of European funds reduced the flexibility of the Minister for Finance to shape the revenue and financial results of the budget of European funds, but did not lead to full compliance with the principle of cash inclusion of the budget. High Seym! The expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds amounted to 423 800 million and was almost 31 billion below the limit laid down in the Budget Act. This consisted mainly of nearly 22 billion lower implementation of European budget expenditure. Compared to the expenditure of the previous year, the expenditure of the state budget and the budget of European funds was more than 11 billion. The largest expenditure from both budgets was incurred on compulsory social security, general subsidies for local government units [[♪ The bell ♪]] and for the purposes specified in the section: Family. The expenditure of the state budget per capita amounted to nearly PLN 9800 of European funds. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a very short time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u9	But you're welcome to leave in one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u10	As you can see, my macro-economic parameters are beneficial. However, we have found irregularities in the implementation of the state budget. The largest amounts of irregularities concerned the following expenditure: during the implementation of the multiannual programme, the most important persons in the country were incurred in 2017 with expenditure of PLN 527 million from the budget section: National defence, intended to finance the defence needs referred to in the Act on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces. The article was thus violated. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Public Finance Act, according to which entities implementing the multiannual programme may make commitments in each year of implementation of the programme up to the total amount of expenditure determined for the entire programme. In addition, the reduction of the limit on defence expenditure set for 2017 by the amount spent on the implementation of the indicated programme resulted in a breach of the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. In the Ministry of Health, in tender proceedings worth PLN 24 million for the purchase of 16 dentobuses there was a violation of Public Procurement Law, among others. by determining the technical prices of vehicles in such a way as to limit the circle of contractors capable of performing the contract and to prepare procedures incorrectly. The time limits for the submission of tenders have not been sufficiently reduced in the proceedings, explaining the urgency of the contracts. The Supreme Audit Chamber has also examined the method of payment of prizes to managers of state positions, in particular as regards the establishment of the basis and frequency of the prizes to be paid. In 2017, 68 entities audited in this respect awarded to managers of state positions were issued 8600 000. zł. The amount of the prize paid in 2017 for one person in charge of the state position was in the range of 5 000. to 138,000. zł. As regards the principle, the average annual amount of prizes for managers of state positions remained at the level of the average prize paid during that period to the directors of the department or equivalent. In view of the fact that the prize should in fact be motivated and granted for specific achievements, the NIK raises doubts about the monthly payment of funds without written justification. This may indicate that this benefit may not have been a reward, but an addition to the basic salary, given that it was paid monthly without written justification... [[Time.]] ...on the basis of letters from the President of the Council of Ministers informing of the decision to award the prize together with an indication of the amount of the prize and that the prizes are to be paid out by the Ministry's own resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u11	Mr. President, please come to the end because you're already out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u12	There's only one sentence left. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 European budget expenditure amounted to 48 billion. The limit set in the Budget Act was used in more than 94%. These expenditures were lower by PLN 3700 million in 2016 due to a reduction in expenditure on the common agricultural policy. By the end of 2017, more than 30 000 were made available to beneficiaries under the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement on the spending of European funds. co-financing agreements using more than 53% the appropriations allocated to Poland for the period 2014 to 2020. One important sentence: from the time of accession in 2004 to the European Union until the end of last year Poland received funding from the European Union budget of PLN 143 700 million... [[Euro.]] ...and the balance of accounts after deduction of financial contributions between Poland and the Union at the end of last year was positive and amounted to EUR 96 200 million. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! The deficit of the state budget amounted to PLN 25 400 million and the budget of European funds 411 million. The total of the two deficits of nearly 26 billion was over 43 billion below the set limits. Total needs... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u13	You've been out of time by five minutes, Mr. President. Go ahead and finish. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u14	I'll tell you what I have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u15	Yeah, 'cause it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Audit Chamber, as I said, is assessing the correctness of the implementation of the budget. Here is a positive assessment on our part. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. In 2017, for the first time in at least 10 years, the tax-to-GDP ratio increased for the second year in a row. In 2017, these revenues reached almost 20%. This level has recently been recorded at least in 2008. I am, of course, also talking about the fiscal relations of the public finance sector towards GDP. In 2017, public finance expenditure accounted for 39.9% GDP. The decrease in the value of public expenditure in relation to GDP between 2016 and 2017 was due to a low dynamic of current expenditure, while property expenditure...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u18	... When they were reduced, they returned to the path of dynamic growth.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u20	The longer text will, of course, be suspended on the side of the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u21	I just wanted to remind you that we have a new rulebook and everyone's got 15 minutes. [[President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Krzysztof Kwiatkowski: Sorry for the extension of time.]] Members know the rules better, but we all need to learn that. 15 minutes. I would like to ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present a report on the information presented by the President of the Council of Ministers on the guarantees and guarantees given in 2017 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ministers! Presidents of the National Bank of Poland and the Supreme Audit Chamber! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance on the Information on Guarantees and Guarantees granted in 2017 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, print No. 2525. The information on guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury, some legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego presented by the Council of Ministers is part of the control of the state of public finances held by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. It has been drawn up since 1998. This material is intended to implement the provisions of Article. 46 of the Law of 8 May 1997 on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. This information was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 18 April 2018 and subsequently, on 13 June 2018 was examined by the Public Finance Commission. According to the WW. the basic information of the above-mentioned sizes shall be shaped as follows. In 2017, on the basis of the above mentioned above, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. the 1997 Guarantees and Guarantees Act was granted two guarantees of the State Treasury for a total amount of over PLN 5.7 billion. This included: guarantee of payment of foreign credit for support of the project: Modernization of the railway line of the Polish Railway Lines Warsaw - Lublin, i.e. the guarantee of the State Treasury up to EUR 300 million, resulting from a loan from PKP PLK SA in the European Investment Bank of EUR 250 million, and a guarantee of the execution of commitments up to EUR 1050 million resulting from the issue by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego of bonds with a nominal value of EUR 750 billion for the financing of the National Road Fund. The State Treasury's potential non-requireable liabilities for guarantees and guarantees amounted to about PLN 116,9 billion as at 31 December 2017, i.e. a decrease of 6% compared to 2016, as the amount of the State Treasury's potential non-requireable liabilities for guarantees and guarantees as at 31 December 2016 amounted to PLN 124,5 billion. It is worth noting that in 2017 the State Treasury did not spend funds to repay guaranteed and guaranteed liabilities. Claims on guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury as at 31 December 2017 amounted to around PLN 216,9 million, which means that compared to 2016 this position recorded an increase of 1.8%. As at the end of 2016, these claims amounted to about PLN 213 million. As regards other legal persons who provided guarantees and guarantees in 2017, in the first half of 2017. The Ministry of Finance received reports from four entities. They were: Agricultural Market Agency, Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency, Agricultural Property Agency and National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. As of 1 September 2017, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency ceased to exist and the National Agricultural Support Centre was established in place, therefore only three entities, i.e. in the second half of 2017, have already submitted reports to the Ministry of Finance. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the National Centre for Agricultural Support. Well, given that... In 2017, these entities provided a total of 24 guarantees and guarantees for a total amount of more than 481,000. zł. Thus, the value of guarantees and guarantees granted in 2017 represented 49% the value of guarantees and guarantees provided by reporting agents in 2016 In this respect, it should be noted that in both 2016 and 2017 100%. the value of the guarantees and guarantees provided was guaranteed by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which gives a significant amount of guarantees to students each year. These guarantees shall be granted only in the first half of the calendar year in view of their characteristics. As regards the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, in 2017 the Bank granted over 43 thousand entrepreneurship support programmes. Guarantees and economic guarantees in portfolio mode for a total amount of approx. PLN 10.5 billion, including nearly 40 thousand. de minimis guarantees for the total amount of 9.9 billion PLN. The very good performance of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in supporting the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises through the provision of de minimis guarantees shows that this offer is well suited to the expectations of both small and medium-sized enterprises and the banking sector. It provides financing for the day-to-day activities of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as investment projects carried out by them. The success of this programme is due in particular to the fact that it is nationwide and operates on a country-wide standard of product, which due to its parameters is very easy to apply by banks despite differences in their credit offer. The procedure for granting portfolio guarantees is very simplified as the trader arranges all the formalities for obtaining the guarantee in the bank in which he takes credit. In addition, in 2017 a thousand guarantees of student loans were also granted for PLN 19.7 million. In the light of the information data, it should be noted that the guarantees and guarantees provided by the State Treasury and the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego under government programmes do not pose a risk to public finances, but at the same time constitute an important instrument to support economic processes, mainly in the field of road and rail infrastructure, as well as the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. This material was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 13 June 2018 and on behalf of the committee, I request the High Sejm to accept this information in accordance with print No 2634. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Since we are waiting for the arrival of the President of the National Bank of Poland, perhaps I will ask Mr Jan Szewczak to submit a report to the committee if you are a Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u24	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am to present to you a report on the meeting and on the findings of the Committee on Public Finance regarding the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. Maybe I'll start by saying that I have bad news for Professor Leszek Balcerowicz and for many representatives of the total opposition. There will be no financial disaster again, and the state of the Polish economy and finance is so decent that small children, including the famous Lenka, when they wake up at night, no longer shout about the deficit and VAT carousels, only supposedly: the constitution and free courts. Well, it must be admitted that Marshal Terlecki was right yesterday when he said it was so-called. The obvious fact, as classics say, that matters of Poland decide not on the street and not abroad, but in the Polish Parliament and in debates such as this one. It can only be regretted that there is relatively little interest in these issues, which, after all, affect not only the past year but also the future years. Ladies and gentlemen, it can also be said that no winds will help those who do not know where they are going. We believe that we know where we are going, and we believe that the report presented by the National Bank of Poland from its activities last year indicates the relevance of certain courts and the correct direction of solutions. Of course, it is not that the state of public finances, the state of monetary policy is already that nothing can be improved. After all, we have our problems, we also notice them on issues concerning the report presented to us by the National Bank of Poland. We know that according to the article. 227 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland central bank of the State is the NBP and it has the exclusive right to issue money and to determine and implement monetary policy that this bank is responsible for the value of Polish money, and it seems that it was effective and meaningful, for the benefit of the Polish state of affairs implemented in 2017 in accordance with the monetary policy assumptions adopted for 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see that keeping low interest rates at the reference rate, in particular 1.5 percent, gives tangible results, austerity effects, economic effects, also investments, and above all, we have savings in the portfolios of Poles who pay off loans, especially gold. Over the last few years, because it's not just about last year, I think these savings are already going into billions of zlotys, maybe a dozen billion zlotys, also when it comes to savings in the cost of public debt service. Inflation remains relatively low. Of course, it can be said that the reference rate is a very important instrument here. The main objective of the NBP issue activity was to ensure the security and liquidity of cash trading. The value of cash in circulation, together with this in the bank's cash registers, increased by almost 6% and at the end of last year amounted to almost PLN 200 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the income from investment activities related to foreign exchange reserve management amounted to PLN 2.4 billion in 2017. As regards the management of foreign exchange reserves, the level of official reserve assets in 2017 decreased, and also in euro terms, by over PLN 13.5 billion, up to EUR 94.5 billion, per dollar by PLN 1 billion, up to USD 113 billion, and in gold by PLN 83 billion, up to PLN 394 billion, and for comparison in 2016 these reserves amounted to PLN 478 billion, but this was, of course, the result of a reduction in bank involvement in reverse repo transactions and repo transactions in the framework of foreign exchange reserves investments. The main cause of the loss, because NBP had a loss of 2.5 billion in 2017, were simply costs not realised from the exchange rate valuation of over PLN 13 billion, and they were caused by the strengthening of Polish gold compared to foreign currencies. This, of course, has its effects, because the weaker Polish gold is in turn more beneficial for Polish exporters, it is reflected in our exports. The National Bank of Poland report also speaks about the environment of the Polish economy. This is an extremely important issue in my opinion today, because this is a matter not only will the recovery of economic activity in the world continue in this and next year's perspective, but it is also a matter of serious geopolitical turmoil that is affecting the financial markets, on the stock exchanges. We will see what will happen after President Donald Trump's speech in Brussels. A very strong speech is planned, which may also address customs-value issues. It is said that Americans are very seriously considering introducing tariffs for European cars, especially German cars. These are billions of euros and, of course, this can not be left without an impact on the Polish automotive industry. We are a great supplier of these parts, components, engines, etc. This shows that we need to look for new solutions, new markets. Let us remember that almost 80% of Polish exports are the European Union, or perhaps 70% all exports this is the euro area, so all the turmoil related to the exchange rates, with this trade war, customs war, project and will also project on the exchange rate of the Polish currency. We also need to notice positive elements, because we have to notice that all of the total savings of Poles have come close to 2 trillion PLN. This is virtually as much as the annual GDP of Poland, and so the tendency to improve wealth, the better condition of Polish wallets is clearly visible. The wages are rising, and so far they are rising by 7%. But it doesn't seem like it's over. As far as indicators are concerned, Mr Nobleman has already talked about the increase in PMI. In June the development of the Polish processing industry accelerated, the result has been the best for several months. There's a clear increase in orders, there's an increase in stocks. It's a separate issue. It seems that CPI inflation, which in June was at 1.9, still remains, as NBP did, the central bank, announced, at a level plus minus 2% , within the range of approximately 2%. This does not mean that the Polish economy or finances do not have problems. We're starting to run out of hands, and they say we're about 100,000 short. drivers, 100,000. builders, not to mention bricklayers, welders or nurses, right? It also appears that this growth after the first quarter, when it was 5.2% , in the second quarter may also be within 5% , some more pessimistically speaking of 4,8%. Will there be any sources of economic slowdown? Will this economic situation abroad not weaken? It seems that such a slowdown in economic activity may be, first of all, we see very serious actions by central banks which shape the financial market in a fundamental way. This is both the American Fed, which raises interest rates, which automatically, you can say, sucks a dollar and draws capital across the ocean. There are further increases in interest rates in the United States. With regard to the policy of the European Central Bank, there are also important announcements about a bit of a reduction in the existing relaxation. Southern Europe appears to be in a very serious financial, economic crisis. These are the PIGS countries. The euro crisis in these countries is evident. As far as Greece is concerned, we all know it, but also Italy, France and Spain are countries that need hundreds of billions of euros of support at the moment, and it is clear that we are doing quite well. Of course, it is important to remember that these very positive results in the financial sphere, in the budgetary sphere, are achieved with enormous social expenditures, social programmes. These are unprecedented financial expenditures in the Third Republic, reaching somewhere some 70 billion PLN. And it is not regrettable that this investment growth of just over 8% is relatively dissatisfying, because let us remember that we still have local investment ahead of us. Local governments have over 60 billion zlotys of this money to spend. For some reason, they have been largely stopped so far, and they are moving significantly at the moment. As far as consumer demand is concerned, in 2019 it is expected to be below 4% At the moment, it's estimated to be 4.4%. This domestic consumption demand appears to be largely maintained. A drop in unemployment. Mr Nobleman has also spoken about this issue. There's no danger of inflation. It seems that the statements of the NBP President, Prof. Glapiński, who said, in my opinion, absolutely rightly, that he sees no reason to raise interest rates... There are also voices of representatives of the Monetary Policy Council going further, which say that perhaps such reductions are not... perhaps we should think about some non-standard solutions, actions of the National Bank of Poland. These measures are used by banks of Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom. In the UK, imagine, even in recent years, the central bank has simply launched loans to entrepreneurs, seeing mainly this megassed-up nature of commercial banks' activities. Will the Polish currency continue at these levels? Here these movements can happen, this is an expected issue. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said, in conclusion, that we are living in a time of some collapse of traditional principles, economic theories, in the face of actually cyclical banking crises, in the face of megaspections, currency wars. Financial markets, as well as banking, are increasingly vulnerable to errors, manipulation, fraud, cybercrime, etc. We can say that some of the fundamental questions that we have today also had our predecessors. In the '20s. Władysław Grabski wrote in the Polish Idea: Do we have to waste without foreign help? In order to rule the country you must rely on the forces of your own people, otherwise we will be ruled by strangers, and many of us dream about control over Poland. So there's a problem. There is, of course, also a constitutional problem. The question is whether within the framework of e.g. constitutional referendum on the issue of art. 220 Constitutions could not be the subject of such a question, why in Poland, as one of the few countries, is a constitutional restriction on the coverage of the budget deficit by limiting commitments to the central state bank. All other countries do it effectively when they're in trouble. On the other hand, we must cover this deficit by borrowing from commercial banks, to a large extent foreign banks. In conclusion and in conclusion, sticking to the discipline of speech, I would like to say that we fully appreciated the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland last year in the committee. This did not cause any more controversy, we believe that the direction represented in monetary policy is right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u25	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Adam Glapiński, to present a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! First of all, before I begin my report, I wanted to share a brief, optimistic reflection to improve the mood of Members. [[Voice from the room: It's not bad.]] I have such pleasure and satisfaction that as the first president of the Supreme Court, I wanted to say, but of course I think of the National Bank of Poland... [[I wonder why.]] ...my mind goes around somewhere else all the time... As the first President of the National Bank of Poland, I am so pleased that I am the first in the history of free Poland, going abroad and participating in international meetings of various types of banking and financial bodies, I do not ask for anything. [[Applause]] This is a truly optimistic moment in Poland's history in general, not only economic history. [[Voice from the hall: And it happens in life that if you don't ask, then...]] Poland does not seek, because it does not have to, for any sovereign loan, to extend the repayment of this loan, to extend the deadline, to redeem. It is simply that the economic and financial objective situation of Poland is so good that we have moved to a group of those countries that are asked for financial assistance, and we provide such assistance as far as possible. Of course, there are different kinds of bands, such as the World Bank, various funds, where we seek loans for specific projects, companies, etc., and we also provide such credits ourselves. This moment has been overlooked by economic publishing, or maybe politics at all, and that's why I point to it. This is really a historic moment. We've joined those countries that are starting to help, and they don't need any help. At one point I realized that I had observed other situations before as a member of the Monetary Policy Council, when Poland was in the situation of those who bowed down below. And this is a very important moment, which, I think, in the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland it is worth mentioning. This is the result of our continuous development over the past few decades. As President of the National Bank of Poland, as you know, and President of the Monetary Policy Council, I submit every year a report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland. According to the NBP Act, this year's report was submitted to the hands of the Marshal on 29 May 2018. It presents the tasks carried out by the NBP last year. During today's speech, I would like to focus only on the most important actions taken by the bank in 2017. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! By virtue of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the exclusive right to determine and implement monetary policy. According to the constitution, NBP is responsible for the value of Polish money. Art. 3 The NBP Act clarifies the tasks set out in the Constitution, stating: "The basic purpose of NBP's activities is to maintain a stable level of prices while supporting the economic policy of the Government, unless this limits the basic objective of NBP. In order to maintain price stability, the NBP pursues the inflation target strategy used by the main central banks in the world. Its essence is to anchor inflation expectations at the level of the announced inflation target and adapt monetary policy instruments, mainly interest rates, to the state and outlook of the economy and current and expected price dynamics. Since 2004, the NBP's medium-term inflation target has been 2,5% since 2004 with a symmetrical deviation range of plus/minus 1 percentage point. In 2017, the average annual inflation rate after several years of remaining below the NBP inflation target developed close to it and stood at 2% compared to 0.6% in 2016, so that we are very close to the monetary inflation target set by the Monetary Policy Council. The increase in inflation in 2017 was driven by a higher dynamic of food prices, especially domestic prices, as well as energy due to an increase in oil prices on world markets. Base inflation, on the other hand, remained low, supported by limited domestic demand pressure, low inflation abroad, and the strengthening of the gold exchange rate. Moreover, despite falling unemployment and accelerating wage dynamics, the labour market did not generate excessive inflationary pressure in 2017. As a result of the increase in labour productivity, the dynamics of unit labour costs remained moderate. In 2017, the economic situation in Poland was favourable. Growth accelerated to 4.6% from 3.0% in 2016 The main growth factor remained consumer demand, supported by a systematic increase in employment and accelerated wage growth. The payout of benefits, including under the scheme "Family of 500+', also had an impact on this. Investment has also been revived. GDP growth in Poland was further encouraged by a relatively high increase in activity in the Polish economy, mainly in the euro area, which is Poland's main trading partner. In 2017 there were no signs of any macroeconomic imbalances in the Polish economy. In foreign trade Poland remained surplus, thanks to which the current account balance was positive. At the same time, the dynamics of credit for the non-financial sector were close to the dynamics of nominal GDP growth. This year too, inflation is moderate and economic growth is similar to that observed in the second half of the previous year. The outlook for the next quarter is favourable and inflation forecasts indicate that it will remain close to the inflation target. In view of the above considerations, last year NBP maintained interest rates unchanged, including a reference rate of 1,5%. The NBP's stability of interest rates ensured low inflation and supported sustainable economic growth, including the recovery of investment and the stability of the financial system. The NBP therefore continues to pursue its core objective of ensuring price stability and supporting the government's economic policy. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Monetary policy was implemented by the NBP in 2017 by means of a set of instruments adopted by the Monetary Policy Council. The conditions on domestic and foreign financial markets did not require NBP to use instruments to a different extent than in the previous year. The main monetary policy instrument in 2017 was the NBP interest rates. The NBP reference rate was the most important. This rate, determining the profitability of the open market operations used by the central bank to shape liquidity conditions in the banking sector, affected the level of interest rate on the funds made available in the in-bank market. In turn, the NBP's deposit and pawning rates set a range of overnight fluctuations on this market. The NBP implemented monetary policy in 2017 under conditions of persistent overflow of the banking sector. Its level was on average PLN 73.6 billion in the year and was close to that of the previous year. In 2017, the operational objective of monetary policy was to establish the Polonia rate near the NBP reference rate. This objective has been achieved effectively. The average absolute deviation of the Polonia rate from the NBP reference rate was 12 percentage points compared to 16 percentage points in 2016. The main tool used to achieve the operational objective of monetary policy was open market operations carried out in the form of issuance of NBP cash vouchers. Their issue was intended to absorb excess funds remaining on the accounts of the Bank in the Central Bank and to maintain balanced liquidity conditions in the banking sector. The implementation of the operational objective in 2017 supported NBP's deposit and credit operations. By offering them, the central bank allowed banks to locate surplus funds or to supplement their shortfalls for 1-day periods by using a deposit at the end of the day and a pawn shop loan accordingly. As in previous years, the minimum reserve system played an important role in achieving the operational objective of monetary policy. In view of its average nature, it gave entities subject to a reserve requirement in the NBP considerable discretion to decide on the amount of funds collected in central bank accounts during the reserve period. As a result, reducing the pressure resulting from changes in liquidity conditions, the minimum reserve system encouraged the stabilisation of market interest rates. In 2017, the Monetary Policy Council introduced two changes to the minimum reserve rate. In accordance with the Decision of 8 November 2017, the reserve ratio of at least 2 years was set at 0%. , starting with the minimum reserve held since 30 April 2018. The Council's decision resulted in the codification of this parameter of the reserve system in respect of resources obtained from both domestic and foreign entities, which had not been done before. In turn, according to the Decision of 5 December 2017, it was reduced to 0,5%. the interest rate on the reserve assets. This amendment entered into force on 1 January 2018. The changes made to the minimum reserve system should help to reduce the mismatch of the fixed-term structure of the assets and liabilities of Polish institutions subject to reserve requirements by supporting long-term savings. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The second area of the core activity of the National Bank of Poland was the stabilisation policy, the stabilisation of the banking system and the financial system of Poland. This is a prerequisite for ensuring sustainable economic development and achieving the core objective of NBP, i.e. maintaining a stable price level. The NBP's statutory tasks are to promote the stability of the financial system and to eliminate or reduce systemic risk. The NBP carries out this task by conducting cyclical research and analysis on the stability and development of the financial system and cooperation with other state bodies, including within the Financial Stability Committee. We are taking various types of measures that promote the security of the financial system and are also involved in the creation of national and European financial regulations. Maintaining the security of the banking sector is of course essential to maintaining the stability of the financial system in Poland. The assets of this system represent more than 2/3 of the assets of national financial institutions. In turn, the non-credit financial institutions sector, due to its financial situation and the business models used, does not pose significant risks to financial stability. Analysis of the financial system and its economic environment in order to identify the main risks to financial stability in Poland showed that last year the Polish financial system was stable. The credit dynamics for the non-financial sector in 2017 after taking into account the exchange rate effects amounted to 6,1% and was close to the dynamics of nominal GDP growth. Such a rate of credit was not a source of imbalances in the economy and in the financial system, nor was it a barrier to economic growth. There were no indications of excessive mitigation of banks' credit policies and the quality of the bank's credit portfolio was stable. Banks were exposed to very limited market risks and liquidity and financing risks. The capital equipment of the banking sector was appropriate to the scale and nature of the business. Most banks complied with regulatory requirements, including the maintenance of additional capital buffers. The total capital ratio in the banking sector, excluding BGK and branches of credit institutions, reached 18.1% at the end of 2017 , against 17,2% at the end of 2016 and a minimum regulatory level of 8%. The increase in this ratio was mainly the result of bank retention of profits made during previous periods. The persistence of uncertainty in the external environment of Poland indicates the need to maintain high resilience of the banking sector in Poland. In this context, it is a positive phenomenon to put an end to the downward trend in the profitability of banks, which could limit their ability to supplement capital in the future. In 2017, the net profit of the banking sector amounted to PLN 13.6 billion, i.e. by 1.7%. less than in 2016. However, if one-off revenue from the sale of shares of credit card organisations were deducted from the 2016 result, Visa Europe, the increase in the net profit of the sector in 2017 would be around 15%. . The increase in the net profit of the banking sector in 2017 would be 15% in this situation. That's by the way. various kinds of comments about the difficult situation of banks in Poland. In this context, it is worth recalling that last year banks paid a total of about PLN 3.6 billion tax on certain financial institutions and PLN 4.8 billion income tax. I have to be quick. Of course, we have some difficulties as Poland in the stability and prospects of the SKOK system, the cooperative banking system, which the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Bank of Poland and the Financial Stability Committee are working on all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's still over GetBack.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As every year I point out, since my first speech, that crisis management and financial stability support would be significantly strengthened by the integration of financial supervision with the National Bank of Poland. The merger of KNF with the National Bank of Poland would contribute to the increase of financial security in Poland. The undisputed independence of the central bank would effectively exercise supervisory functions, especially as the share of state ownership in the supervised financial system, especially in the banking sector, has significantly increased last year. Currently, more than half of the banking sector's assets are in Polish hands. I hope that the return of Polish capital to the banking sector will further strengthen its stability and thus contribute to the development of the Polish economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Sejm agreed in a joint discussion on these items on the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, within a range of 55 to 4 minutes. This is a short debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Ministers! The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm surprised the rapporteur, Mr NIK. We weren't prepared to have a time limit. But at this time, which we have at our disposal in the context of the short debate, I think that this important information on the implementation of the state budget can be supplemented. In the budget law, the expenditure of the state budget is planned to amount to PLN 384.8 billion. This limit has not changed despite the amendment of the Budget Act. State budget expenditure amounted to PLN 375.8 billion in 2017, of which 1.3 billion accounted for expenditure carried over to implementation in 2018. Compared to 2016, the expenditure of the state budget in 2017 was almost PLN 15 billion higher, i.e. over 4%. The expenditure implemented allowed for the continuation of the financing of the scheme, the 500+ family, the financing of the effects of the reduction of the retirement age and the application of the valorisation of pension benefits, and the increase in the amount of the lowest pension, as a general rule, up to 1 000. PLN from 1 March 2017 and the increase of the salary fund in the state budget area and the average salaries of teachers at the various degrees of professional promotion employed in schools and subvention institutions run by local government units. It has also enabled the financing of national defence expenditure and the increase of resources for inland, road and rail transport infrastructure, including the implementation of the tasks resulting from the 2014-20202023 national road construction programme (with a view to 2025) and the 2023 national railway programme. In addition, they enabled the continuation of restructuring tasks in the coal mining sector, funding for free medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices for persons aged 75 years or over, payment of subsidies for agricultural and livestock insurance and transfer from the State budget to the National Health Fund for grants for the financing of guaranteed benefits. Despite these and other expenditure not mentioned here in 2017, the government budget deficit amounted to only 25.4 billion, i.e. was lower by PLN 34 billion than planned. The implementation of the basic size of the budget therefore indicates that the 2017 budget implementation report deserves to be adopted. In favourable economic conditions, revenue was higher than planned. Expenditure has been made below the permissible limit without prejudice to the implementation of the priority tasks. As a result, the budget deficit was also much lower than expected. Indicators to monitor the implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy and the Responsible Development Strategy for the 2016-2017 period confirm that Poland has come closer to achieving the agreed strategic objectives of economic development. In 2017, work was undertaken on the implementation of tools to pursue coherent budgetary policies that go beyond the horizon of one financial year and support the implementation of the strategic objectives and development priorities to be introduced in a step-by-step manner. Compared to 2016, the expenditure of the state budget in 2017 was almost 15 billion higher, i.e. 4.1%. In 2017, the trend towards an increase in the concentration of expenditure in their most valuable items was stopped and reversed, as can be seen in expenditure classified by budget headings and by part of the budget. This was accompanied by an increase in average employment estimated at 3.5%. This situation meant an increase in the social productivity of the country's important and desirable economic growth factor. According to Eurostat, labour productivity in Poland increased by 3.2% in 2017 per employee. compared to the previous year, while the average in the European Union was 1.5%. In 2017, the Council Poland has received PLN 47.1 billion from the European Union budget, while PLN 15.7 billion has been paid to the European Union budget. This means that the Polish economy gained net funds of PLN 31.3 billion. The expenditure of the European budget was made in 2017 in the amount of PLN 48 billion. In 2017 a limit of guarantees of PLN 200 billion was set in the Budget Act, which is the same as in the previous year. This limit was used only in 2,9% , which should be assessed positively in view of the preferential nature of the action, namely to safeguard the potential use of the Treasury guarantee for rapid intervention in the event of adverse events in the financial markets. Compared to 2016, the amount of sovereign government debt was lower by PLN 3.4 billion and the ratio to GDP decreased by 3.4 percentage points. At the end of 2017, all sub-sectors in the public finance sector showed lower commitments. Net lending needs amounted to 26.2 billion and were lower than planned by PLN 52.8 billion. The main impact on the development of loan needs was the overall deficit of 98.2%. Needs. It is worth noting that the funds for financing the net lending needs were almost entirely obtained by borrowing debt on the domestic market. In 2017, the average employment in the national economy amounted to 10 475 thousand. people and was higher by 3.5% compared to 2016. Average employment in state budget units amounted to 570 000. the number of persons and was higher by 0.1% than in 2016. The number of unemployed registered in employment offices at the end of 2017 amounted to 1.1 million, i.e. that it was less than 254,000. compared to 2016. The unemployment rate at the end of 2017 was 6.6% , which means that it decreased by 1.6 percentage points compared to the previous year, but the BAEL unemployment rate was record low, as it fell to just over 4%. The year 2017 was the third year in a row in which wages increased dynamically. The decrease in the unemployment rate and the limited availability of new workers have somewhat contributed to an increase in wage dynamics, especially in the business sector, where the average gross wage in 2017 was almost 6% higher. The average monthly pension benefit paid from the FUS was over 2 000. zł and was higher by 2.6% in relation to the previous year. The average pension benefit financed by the KRUS Pension Fund amounted to PLN 1200 in 2017 and was higher by 1.5%. compared to 2016. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! The 2017 budget was not a budget for Law and Justice, nor was it a budget for the government of that group. It was a budget for Poles, for the development of Poland. It was a budget for Polish families, a budget for economic development, for progress in the field of science, higher education, culture and art. It was a budget that provided good education for children and young people, their development and upbringing. It was a budget of successive improvement in the health protection of Poles, a budget eliminating social inequalities. It was a budget supporting Polish agriculture, the development of physical culture and sport, especially when it comes to children and young people. But it was also a responsible budget for the public finances of the Polish state, a budget reducing the debt of the state, a deficit of public finances, but at the same time a development budget increasing the gross domestic product, which already exceeded the limits of PLN 2 trillion. The countries of Europe and other continents admire the growth of Polish GDP, see Poland as the leader of economic growth. This is mentioned by objective macroeconomic indicators and ratings of many global agencies. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the proposal to adopt the 2017 budget implementation report and vote in favour of granting discharge to the Council of Ministers for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to remind you that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm took place on 28 February 2018, so that this is not a sudden change in the proceedings. Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Platform. [[But the shock remained.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. I do not think Mr Nobleman remembers that he voted in favour of changing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Gentlemen of the presidents! The jury candidate in the Supreme Court, as suggested by the PiS, said that: as far as the law is concerned, I can read. Many ministers in the PiS government, unfortunately with the finance minister at the head, could paraphrase this statement and say: when it comes to public finances, I can read it. That is your competence in managing the money of Polish taxpayers. And it's not just the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. This is also the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Three negative assessments for government agencies - in 2015 no government agency received negative assessments - and 26 descriptive assessments. You know what that means? That means 26 times the Supreme Audit Office couldn't give you a positive assessment. I don't know what to be happy about. [[Hard work.]] Moreover, we have a drop or a complete lack of efficiency in tax collection. Did you hear what the president of NIK said? 1% You managed to collect tax debts in 2017. I'm just wondering why you're catching these tax frauds when they're safe with their money and they're sitting there somewhere, and I'm sure that money doesn't affect the state budget. Turns out the National Tax Administration is a paper sheriff, but we've been talking about it from the very beginning. You were also pleased with this slide of the President of NIK showing - said President of the Nobleman - that Poland was growing almost twice as fast as the rest of Europe. Darlings, if we were growing at this rate, the West would always be running away from us. Maybe we could catch up with him in about 30 years, so... [[In our lives.]] Exactly, sir, I didn't mean to be so rude and say that many of us He won't live to see it. Do you know how Poland developed in relation to the European Union, how the Civic Platform ruled? Mr. President, shoot me. [[The kids were hungry.]] [[Voice from the room: They're still here.]] 25 times faster and don't lie. [[Applause]] Remember this: 25 times faster we developed during the 8 years of the Civic Platform's rule. But let's get back to the 2017 budget. Breaking the discipline of public finances, exceeding the limits of the budget law, paying each other prizes under the table - these are the standards of 2017 described in the detailed reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. But it is just as bad that when we debate the 2017 budget, we are talking about two parallel worlds: the propaganda world and the real world. In the world of government propaganda Poland 2017 is a country of gigantic investments, a leader in the production of cars and modern ferries, it is the world of TVP Info and Prime Minister Morawiecki, who like Edward Gierek traverses Poland: here he will put a shovel, there he will reveal a monument, somewhere else in the light of the cameras he will hand the keys to the happy Kowalski family. But in the real world, investments last year were the lowest since 1996. They were only 17.7% GDP, i.e. that they were even lower than in 2016, which all economists considered as a year of investment collapse. Unfortunately, when it seems that it can't get any worse, the PiS government proves to us that anything is possible with this government. What was the first quarter of 2018? We have negative private investment dynamics, shrinked by almost 7% year to year. It seems that this is the only effect of the business constitution, which was supposed to change the lives of Polish entrepreneurs. In 2015, investments accounted for more than 20% GDP. That's the kind of Poland we put into your wretched hands. At that time, your propaganda was radically different from reality. You were propagandizing the ruins, promising that the investment would be 25%. GDP. It was the SOR's priority. And there's 25%, but in the Czech Republic. In Poland we have a rusty keel, the keys turned out not to be from this apartment, the apartment turned out not to be Kowalski's, and the rent is definitely higher than the market, and the contract does not provide for redemption. How can you not be ashamed to look people in the eye at your meetings? [[Applause]] But let's go back to the world of propaganda, where the ruling majority feels perfectly. According to her, we had a budget surplus last year. That was a multi-month official message. At the end of the year you said a little quieter: there is a deficit, but small. And what was it really like? General government deficit was 1.7% GDP, but because Poland is not on the moon, but in Europe, it cannot be said whether it is little or much if we do not compare it with other countries of the European Union. How do we compare to that? In 20 Member States, the deficit did not exceed 1% GDP. In 20 countries it was less than 1% GDP and 12 countries had a budget surplus. You know why? Because it is ruled by responsible governments who do not practice politics. And after us, for example, the flood, they only know that citizens need to make a financial pillow for the crisis, for the time of slowing down, because such a time will come. Today, the whole of Europe knows this, not just the Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Do you know what this means, that the budget deficit in 2017 amounted to PLN 25 billion? It means that when smart people tell you that you don't have money on 500+, they're telling the truth, because the kids who are getting 500+ today will be paying off this debt with salty interest like in some shady loan company. That's why you didn't bring in $8,000. The amount free, the retirement age only after two years of government, because you didn't have the money for all this, little of it, you don't have it until today. That's why you introduced over 30 new taxes and danin. That's the only reason you're able to get it together. Thank God that the economic situation in the world is what it is. Public debt is also falling only in the world of your propaganda. Reinforcing the gold last year won't make the debt go down. We see it today when the gold is weakening because the real world doesn't work like the world of your propaganda. In the world of your propaganda, Poland emerges from the trap of medium development. Competitiveness was supposed to become our trademark. What's it really like? Business regulations place Poland on 118th place in 137 countries in the ranking of competitiveness of national economies in 2017. It's your fault. In addition to inflation in the portfolios, you proposed inflation of law to Poles, above all tax law. That's why entrepreneurs don't invest. And no congress in Podkarpacie will help. Entrepreneur is a simple man - he invests when he knows that business will pay him off, and how he thinks the state will be able to pluck him and not even be able to go to an independent court, he will wait. And I have some bad news for you. Entrepreneurs will wait until we restore democracy and free courts in Poland, [[Applause]] Because that's the guarantee of investment security. In the real world, we owe PiS another unsavory ranking. Listen carefully: Poland fell from 29th place to 36th place in this year's Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International. No wonder the fish breaks down from the head, and the invasion of party activists of the PiS on the State Treasury company is like the invasion of the Huns on Europe. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I started by saying that you don't know each other in public finances, but the whole government of Beata Szydło and the government of Mateusz Morawiecki in 2017 mastered private finances to perfection. Because what is the biggest achievement of the PiS government in the field of finance in 2017? [[Rewards.]] That's a very good answer. These are the embarrassment prizes for ministers, often very weak and incompetent, which were cancelled at the end of last year. Only ministers, without vice-ministers, in 2017. they paid over PLN 1.5 billion to each other. Platform ministers have been awarded 38,000 in prizes for 8 years. [[A billion?]] PiS ministers over 1.5 million. [[Millions.]] Mr President, in one year, 1.5 million. [[A billion or a million?]] You awarded yourselves the prizes of shame for cutting out the Białowieża Forest, for trampling on the reputation of our homeland abroad, for burying for the coming years the opportunity for modernized equipment of the army, finally for the shame of Poles asked by foreigners abroad: What is happening in this Poland actually? And that saddest prize that shouldn't be at all. The reward you paid to the minister supervising the police who killed Igor Stachowiak. No confetti is gonna fall asleep. [[Applause]] The longer you rule, the greater will be the shame for Poland and the shame for you. You know why? Because the prizes given under the table are a sign of corruption, and corruption is the inseparable sister of every dictatorship. Instead of the great Poland in 2017, you gave Poland to Poles with embarrassed actions of power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u31	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with praise: it wasn't the worst year for the Polish budget. No more praises. It was only because hardworking Poles pay more and more taxes. As if it weren't enough, the government outruns the idea of new taxes, fees, danin and who knows what they'll be called in a moment to avoid the word "tax." I suggest a wash, tithes, dripping or maybe a major one. From January 2017, the Act increasing VAT to 23% entered into force. Law and Justice broke their promise and increased VAT. The previous disgraceful act of the Civic Platform would expire at the end of 2016, because it was supposed to be for 2 years, it was for 5 years, now it's real for 7 years, and it doesn't know when it's going to be. In 2017, each Pole working paid an additional 500 PLN of VAT on the ground that you raised this tax by 1%, and this is on average 500 PLN more for each Pole working. As Kukiz15, the third political force, we have called for a 1% reduction in this tax. Unfortunately, today the Law and Justice are deaf and cannot imagine a return to normal rates. In the explanatory memorandum of the Budget Act, you also wrote that your actions contributed to a decrease in the rate of tax returns, i.e. you admit that the freezing of VAT of entrepreneurs, you take a silent loan from Polish companies in order to have nicer numbers and more liquidity. The problem is that this contributes to the collapse of Polish companies. Currently, the rate of bankruptcy of companies has increased by 21%. Honest entrepreneurs, with limited access to cash, are forced to close their business. It was also the first year in which hundreds of thousands of Poles were robbed of any tax-free amount. That's another 500 zlotys that went from their pockets to their budget. In addition, 90% citizens lost dozens of zlotys just because you didn't raise their tax-free amount even by a zloty. That's how you set up the system. Anyone who makes more than $1,000. £ per month, loses because of your passiveness and inflation. In a word, he's a rich man because he doesn't deserve to increase his tax-free amount. Shame. In this matter we also submitted draft laws which were to equalize the tax-free amount of all Poles and parliamentarians one way or the other. We also submitted draft laws updating the relief for commuting to work, which hasn't moved a penny in 11 years. Transport costs and inflation increased by several dozen percent at the time. These factors include: make the budget more and more money, but the question arises: Is this a legal and fair method, is that fair? New institutions, institutes, organizations and even greater bureaucracy have emerged. Fortunately, some of the duties can be fulfilled by using a computer, but this does not apply to those existing duties. Often these are additional duties, which we also need to fulfil, only with the help of a computer. Summa summarum, and so we spend more and more time telling you about our finances, our income, our losses, everything that's going on in our lives. The budget hole amounted to scary 25 billion PLN, i.e. last year Law and Justice indebted additionally to every working Pole for an average of 1.5 thousand. Despite the introduction of new taxes and raising old ones. In 2016, you indebted each working Pole to an additional 3,000. zł, and now 1500, i.e. for a total of 2 years of your governments in the account of every working Pole is minus 4500 zł. In this case, the PiS is an encore. Isn't it worth considering cutting spending, cutting red tape, simplifying procedures instead of reaching into the pockets of Poles? But reaching into your pockets isn't enough, because you take our ID cards and take huge loans from them, just like your predecessors did. In this country's budget there are 7 million zlotys, which Kukiz15 does not collect as the only political organisation. On the scale of the 4 year term it will be PLN 30 million, which will remain for us. It would be best if they were transferred to health care, but we see that you spend them on very different and not always needed things. Last year over PLN 50 million went to the party subsidies. I also have a question for the Prime Minister's office, in fact for the Prime Minister, because it was at the end of the government. What about that $49,000 invoice? zł for makeup worth 1000 zł? We demand answers, who signed it, why he signed it, if it was the government. Mr. Prime Minister or Prime Minister, was this the last, most expensive makeup in history, which was valued at a completely different amount. We want to find out who was the culprit. We don't have a problem doing makeup - do it yourself, no problem - but why does it cost 50 times what it should cost? The economic situation is relatively good, maybe not so much thanks to you, because you are disturbing rather than helping, but even though you are, Poles work hard and somehow they manage, but you are trying to indebt to power, and this can lead to a economic crisis in a situation of minor turmoil on world markets, and about it, as you know, is not so difficult at all. There was already an internet bubble, there was a matter of real estate, there will probably be another issue in a moment, and you, as people responsible for Poland, should prepare us for the dry years that will occur sooner or later. So we don't spend it when it's good, we save it for when it's bad. It seems simple, but not always. What if the next economic crisis starts next autumn? Are we secure? Are we prepared? Wouldn't the rise in unemployment, the expansion of the gray area put such constructed budgets on the shoulders? Regardless of who rules - whether the Law and Justice rule, whether we rule or anyone else rule - we wish everyone both at local government level and government level, of course, success and the best economic situation, but wishes are not enough. We must make logical plans for the coming years so that we simply do not find ourselves in a potty in a difficult economic situation. If we borrow more tens of billions of zlotys in a good situation, how will we get through the coming crisis? Hence our request, Madam Marshal, on behalf of Kukiz.15 and subsequent generations, to stop the irresponsible debt of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cymanski, hungry children are still in schools, even though we spent PLN 25 billion on a program that was supposed to help children. Talk to local government officials, school heads, teachers. This is unfortunately a sad truth about Poland. But from the beginning. The year 2017 is above all the year of lies of Prime Minister Morawiecki about the surplus of the budget, which was never really there. After many months of talking about the surplus, of course we closed a year on the downside, the deficit amounted to PLN 25 billion. This is supposed to be less than planned, but in a time of this good economic situation in the world, historically high impact from the profit from NBP and with many other positive factors it's actually a lot. In such a fat year as 2017 we should notice the surplus. Many countries of the European Union have shown that you can, Minister, because as many as 12 countries of the European Union have actually recorded this surplus. Saving countries include Germany, Sweden and Luxembourg, but also Lithuania, Croatia, Bulgaria and even Greece. May I? You can, all you have to do is want. Poland is ranked 21st with a result below the EU average. These are your healthy public finances, otherwise you can't. The year 2017 was also a year of disappointed hope, hope for reflection in investments. Last year was supposed to bring up the investment, but none of this is another year when it didn't work out. Speaking of this reflection, the President of Glapiński forgot to add that the rate of domestic private investment has been the lowest for 15 years and that foreign investors invest significantly slower in Poland - it is a sad truth about Polish investments - as well he forgot to add that GDP is largely driven by stocks, consumption, and not by what is most important for the economy, i.e. investments. The year 2017 is unfortunately also the year of tormenting small and medium-sized enterprises. Polish companies begin to fall as quickly as in the crisis. The rate of bankruptcy is expected to increase by 30% this year and last year was the year of growth. Companies have liquidity problems, and this government's actions do not improve this situation. You keep VAT, split payment can lead to liquidity problems in small Polish companies, we have an increase in labour costs, new fees and taxes, a ban on trade. It's all the tip of the iceberg that makes the economic boom busted into the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises. But 2017 is also the year that will become history as the year of the money-jump by government ministers Prime Minister Szydło, the money-jump that we heard from this speaker, just belonged to them. Money spent on bonuses without written justification, as we have heard from the President of NIK, seems more functional than any bonus. The money for transport, which was spent on 30% more, although the number of limousines driven by government kilometers, attention, decreased by 130. It's money spent on a visa. It's hard to tell when and for whom it was made. This is an example of your style of governance and your economy. But who had to give money for all this? Citizens, of course. I wanted to show this so that you would never tell Poles again that you did not raise taxes, but of course the Marshal did not agree, because only Members of the Law and Justice have permission to display uncomfortable slides. Members of the opposition can no longer do this. The year 2017 is the year of a hugely long list of new tax burdens, which are drained every day by wallets of Poles. You forget to tell them that the higher revenue to the budget is mostly money taken out of their wallets. There's something to talk about, like I said, because the list of fees, raises, new danins, whatever we call them, is really long. For example, the bank tax itself, introduced in 2015, gave the government over PLN 4 billion last year. Who paid that? There's no illusions. Even President Glapiński said: banks' profits are higher than before the introduction of the tax. They're higher because the tax was paid by customers. That's the sad truth about your taxes. The work is really impressive. It's a shocking show in your edition. The gallery tax transformed into a general tax on commercial real estate is to give the PiS government PLN 1.5 billion. It's a tax charged on commercial, office, warehouse, hotels or apartments. So we pay it at the price of renting an apartment, renting a hotel room, and even shopping because we pay for a warehouse that is placed in the cost of goods in the warehouse. You've got to figure it out. [[That's the way it is in the world.]] The second tax threshold is on the income from renting apartments. It is a tax that young Poles and poor Poles will pay, because it cannot afford to buy their own M3. Water charges. A whole list of long fees that were supposed to give the government $4 billion. Somehow you suck it off, but of course we will pay it at the prices of goods, fish, various agricultural products, as well as at the price of water delivered to us simply by waterworks. The elimination of the upper threshold in the ZUS is a style of PiS management. Today we will spend money, and the young Poles will pay it in the future. After all, today's higher pension contributions are higher taxes in the future, because these pensions will have to be paid back. This can be mentioned for a really long time, because 2017 is also a new excise duty on cigarettes and tobacco products, higher excise duty on used cars, recycling fee, counter charge, higher rates on ZUS for self-employed people, no amount free for part of citizens, higher VAT, although you promised, it was your slogan: we will lower VAT to old rates. The year 2017 is finally your year of VAT sealing, whose effectiveness will be tested in the current year. I have already said from this Seym Speaker, I will repeat once again that VAT receipts for the first 4 months of this year are virtually the same level, not much higher than last year, i.e. less than PLN 1 billion. What does that mean? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This means that VAT dries slower than consumption increases. In the long term, you may find that the VAT gap is spreading to you this year. Your sympathizers, trolls have already checked my speech on demagog.pl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u35	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u36	Turns out I'm telling the truth because it's just the truth. This year will show whether last year we were dealing with tax sealing, whether it was really one great propaganda by Prime Minister Morawiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u37	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u38	Of course, the Modern Club will not support budget discharge due to the very numerous comments made by the Supreme Audit Chamber on the operation of individual ministries and government agencies, and also on all the issues that I raised in my speech. [[Applause]] [[That's too bad, 'cause we were counting on you guys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u39	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. President! It is difficult to talk about an elegant introduction in conditions when you have only 7 minutes available for such extensive material. Allow me to analyse the implementation of the budget in the context of certain socio-economic conditions in the world, in Europe and of course in Poland. The year 2017 was characterised by a high growth of the world economy. According to estimates of the International Monetary Fund, the value of world production increased by 3.8% for 2016 The remaining low interest rates, relatively low raw material prices, open markets, high turnover has led to an increase in investments above average. The pace of investment growth was 5% in Spain , in the German economy - more than 4%. In this context, how did our Polish budget implementation parameters evolve against this good global economy? Have we been able to make use of this good global economic situation in the development of our economy while safeguarding public finances? In Poland, the rate of economic growth in 2017 was 4.6%. On a similar level it was in the Czech Republic, Estonia and Latvia. In Romania and Turkey, GDP increased by 7%. Unfortunately, in the structure of factors that have the greatest impact on the volume of GDP in our country we have consumption - private consumption, which increased last year by 4.7%. According to GUS, the share of private consumption in GDP in Poland accounts for as much as 2.7% , and only 1.9% are other factors, including investment value and export volume. Even with the current definition of economic growth, it is said that those who do not invest do not develop, that without investment there is no development. With regard to investments in Poland, I will say that their level collapsed mainly in 2016, especially in terms of private investments, and was up to 8% lower than 2015 and gross fixed capital expenditure increased by 3.4% in 2017 compared to the previous year. Here, the statistics are simply ruthless. As regards property expenditure to the total budget expenditure, I will say that it represents only 6% - almost as much as in 2015. - and the expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt for comparison amounts to 7,7% expenditure. This is more than the total amount of property expenditure in our country. Total income - 398 billion. Total expenditure - I am talking about the state budget and European resources - almost 424 billion. Hence the total deficit of the state budget and European resources - 25,8 billion PLN. So we live on credit. For GDP, the general government deficit was 1.7% GDP. Poland was included in the group of EU countries with the highest deficit. In 20 Member States, this deficit did not exceed 1% GDP. The Supreme Audit Chamber also notes that revenue was overestimated and therefore the deficit of the public finance sector - by PLN 3.2 billion - has been reduced. This is due to irregular settlements with the Social Insurance Fund. The public debt amounted to almost PLN 962 billion at the end of 2017 and the government debt amounted to over PLN 1003 billion. In the income structure, tax revenue is the highest position. From non-tax - NBP - almost 9 billion PLN was received. Among tax revenues - of course VAT, i.e. so-called income. indirect. As far as VAT is concerned, this was an increase of 30 billion, but this increase was not only due to the sealing of the tax system, but also, as the NIK points out, from artificially creating high dynamics of VAT revenues due to such artificial accelerated tax returns in December 2016. I would also like to point out that the share of expenditure on agriculture and hunting - from 8% in 2014 to 5.7% - falls in the structure of expenditure in the coming years. in 2017; science - from 1.9% up to 1.6%; education and upbringing - from 1.1% up to 1%. You promised something completely different, but promises and manipulations are the domain of this government. There has been incomplete implementation of the budget in a number of headings for agricultural expenditure. The biggest one is... PLN 102 million was not used for insurance subsidies. The demand for funds was high, the organization of work in the Ministry failed. Unfortunately, farmers did not have time to insure themselves. The risk of African swine fever has not been controlled. There is a very worrying situation in health care. Here is the indicator: in the European consumer health ranking Poland occupies 29. place in 35 countries under examination. Similarly, there is no rational senior policy. Pensioners and pensioners received a few gold revalorization of benefits. You did not support our project on one-off support of PLN 500. The program of free medicines for seniors is a kind of trick - this is the amount of several zlotys per month. We can't say there was no money, because prizes were being paid. In December, funds were blocked for ZUS and KRUS - PLN 4.5 billion - but they were needed for propaganda public media, for the Czartoryski Foundation, for the creation of a new institution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] historical memory. It's just that it's all very sad. It is only the 500+ family programme that we consider to be good, but it has shortcomings that you simply do not want to eliminate. I'm almost done, Marshal. You're welcome. The parliamentary club will not vote in favour of the report. It was a budget full of populism, not rational spending, a budget that doesn't show the economy of this government. You haven't used or used the good economic conditions of the world economy, you're indebted to our country without thinking who and under what conditions will have to pay it back. [[Populism is supporting...]] You haven't even used a lot of resources for national defense according to their purpose. You couldn't use them as the 21st century technique commands. We're slowly becoming vulnerable. It is hard to expect that an expensive territorial army will protect us in the event of danger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u41	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the implementation of the state budget in 2017 in the field of health protection. I have the honor and pleasure for two reasons. Firstly, because health is a concern of every Pole and an element of the quality of life of every person, and secondly, because the public's concern for the health of citizens is focused on budget expenditure on health as in the lens. First of all, I would like to stress with all my might that the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right, with an admirable consequence, is taking on very difficult problems and negligence in health care through a significant increase in health expenditure and at the same time making a number of very difficult reforms. [[Applause]] [[Because the Poles paid. That was our money.]] In total, we spent PLN 87 billion on health care in 2017, which means an increase of 8 billion compared to expenditure in 2016, in which expenditure has already increased compared to expenditure in 2015. 2017 was the first year of clear budget support for the National Health Fund. Expenditure from the budget amounted to around 7184 thousand. zł. This was an increase of 28% compared to 2016 expenditure, including over PLN 5 billion in health care. This is an increase of almost 40% compared to expenditure in 2016. Clinical hospitals have been increased by 90% in relation to spending in 2016, for high-specialization services by 11%, for higher education by 5.8%. The additional funding from the State budget in 2017 allowed for financing the purchase of medical equipment for general and specialist diagnostics operators on an unprecedented scale. This ensures a new quality of medical care. It should be noted that in previous years, in the Budget Act for Part 46: Health was not planned for investment purchases for hospitals. The government's priority was to reduce the queues to doctors. There has been an increase in the number of high-specialist benefits financed from the state budget per million inhabitants from 475 in 2016 to 493 in 2017. There has been an increase in the number of hip replacements, including cataracts. And here are the numbers. Because of my limited time, I'm not gonna use them. However, we are aware that the ageing population, past negligence over the years and the lack of sufficient reference centres they do not allow us to radically close backlogs in the short term, eliminate queues. The increase in spending on higher education has allowed to increase the number of students in medical universities supervised by the Minister of Health, which is particularly important in the situation of insufficient number of doctors employed in healthcare in Poland, to 59 thousand. - I am talking about students - i.e. 1,300 more people than in 2016. Our predecessors left us huge debts of hospitals. [[And they're the same.]] I'll tell you why they're the same. In the philosophy of the PO-PSL government, debts were supposed to justify the commercialisation and privatisation of hospitals, so that they were not paid for over-executions over the years, the debts of hospitals grew like snowballs, hospitals used a judicial path, and yet still remained in terrible financial difficulties. [[And today we're dealing with the same thing.]] In 2017, the NFZ received a budget grant of PLN 1 billion to pay hospitals for overperformance and guaranteed benefits remaining from the time of the PO-PSL government. It is thanks to these funds that some of the county hospitals - but I stress: hospitals rationally managed - have come out of debt and have positive results. [[Applause]] The predecessors didn't solve the problem of medical workers' wages. They promised 4 × 400 nurses, but today this government is funding these increases. [[And the nurses are on strike.]] Don't disturb me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u43	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u44	This is your method of conduct and in committee meetings, and in the sitting room. The amount allocated to the remuneration of residents and trainees from 2015 to the level of 812 million to the level of 966 million in 2017 and a further increase to this year is an increase of 40%. Senior citizens received free medicines for the amount of PLN 489 million in 2017, which together with 2016 amounts to PLN 573 million. The refund was granted to 5851 thousand. people over 75 years of age. Mrs Tokarska of PSL must acknowledge that this amount of savings has remained in the pockets of people over 75 years of age. [[Applause]] These are facts. Children received free vaccination against pneumococcal disease. The reactivation of school medicine and its development are valuable. Unfortunately, in 2017, the provision for financing the equipment of health prevention offices in schools was not used due to the low interest of schools. Only 11% This reserve has been used. [[Self-government.]] We hope that the development by the Minister of Health and MEN in agreement of standards for the functioning of preventive health offices for children and young people, as NIK recommends, will increase the interest of schools and local authorities in using budgetary resources for this purpose. We implement 15 health policy programmes aimed at specific groups of recipients for the amount of PLN 1126 million. The reference infertility treatment centres have started in the framework of a comprehensive procreational health programme in Poland covering the years 2016 and 2020. High Izbo! These centres are set up in Ub. They started operating in the fourth quarter. This required major renovations, equipment and equipment, as required by law in detail. However, within 3 months 600 pairs have been reported to these centres to diagnose the causes of infertility and fertility treatment. However, we have to wait a little longer for the results, these are not issues solved within 2 or 3 months, solved within a few months. We've managed to stop the commercialization of hospitals, we've implemented a network of hospitals without problems. We have also adopted a law reforming basic health care, a law on minimum wage for health workers. We have restored post-graduate internships that the predecessors have eliminated and we have taken many other actions, including. We've regulated a small bill, so to speak, the functioning of the pharmaceutical market for the benefit of family pharmacies. This reform will continue. High Izbo! I am convinced that all these actions and expenditures, which took place in 2017 - much greater than the year before and incomparably larger than those of our predecessors - generally gradually improve the health situation. For these difficult projects, both the current management of the Ministry and the predecessors, the previous management of the Ministry with Minister Radziwiłł, Minister Katarzyna Głowala, I pay my respects and thanks on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We are convinced that the effort you have put in, starting a number of times such unpopular changes, will bring good results today and in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are now assessing the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017, quoting and analyzing the figures relating to revenue and expenditure. However, we must bear in mind that a number of constitutional standards, the Public Finance Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been violated in the course of the 2017 Budget Act, and it is therefore justified to challenge the legality of the 2017 budget. We remember that on 16 December 2016, the Sejm's meeting was moved from the Sejm meeting room to the column room. Kazimierz Puzak. The transfer itself is not disputed, but there is no doubt that the sitting of the Sejm may be held in a room where 460 seats are prepared to provide Members with the same conditions for them to participate actively. That's from the Constitution. From the article. Paragraph 7 1 of the Rules of Procedure also show that the Member is to have a designated place in the sitting room. These conditions have not been met. It should be recalled that Members of the opposition did not have free access to the room. There were no microphones in the section of the opposition room, the opposition was blocked to reach the presidential table and the possibility to speak. Next case. Art. Paragraph 7 5 of the Rules of Procedure states: the presence of a Member at the meeting of the Sejm shall be confirmed on the list of attendances to be held on each day of the sitting until the end of the sitting - I quote the Rules of Procedure - and by means of a printed participation in the votes. That's the rule book. It follows from this provision that there are two ways to confirm presence, and these are not alternatives - this must be confirmed together. As you know, some Members signed their letters after the meeting. There are doubts about counting votes. It cannot be determined whether there was a quorum because these provisions were broken. According to art. 113 of the Constitution of the Sejm meeting is public. On the other hand, the Public Finance Act refers to the transparency of the management of public funds, which includes: the transparency of the budgetary debate in the Sejm. Against this background, the question arises as to how the publicity of the Sejm meetings or the transparency of the debate are being held. The answer's back in the book. Art. 172 indicates, for example, what are the guarantees of transparency of meetings, i.e. early informing the public about the meetings, enabling the press, radio and television to draw up reports on the Sejm meetings, enabling the public to observe the meetings on the basis set by the Marshal. We know those rules were just broken. These laws were undoubtedly broken. It can therefore be seen that both the Constitution, the Public Finance Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been violated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u47	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about budget, about figures, but there are people behind every digit, and I would like to spend more time with people, because, ladies and gentlemen, things are bad with our officials. And here's my request because it's a new financial year: Let's pay attention to the officials. In many tax offices there is no willingness to work, because the rates offered today are rates that are completely unincentived to take up this job and responsibility. The Regional Audit Office is having trouble keeping people alive today. This has already been, ladies and gentlemen, a downward trend for several years - a huge rotation, the departure of workers from RIO to local governments. In other words: Let's try to make it clear that officials can earn money and live a decent life so that they don't feel that they are offended by the fact that a GOPS employee signs decisions for thousands when it comes to social assistance and makes hundreds of zlotys himself. Today we have this situation. And that's something I'd like to point out, because that's the problem of every government, and in recent months and years we've got a rising wave. This is a challenge and a signal for the government side to lean on and solve the problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Dear guests! If I may, only a brief digression about the speech preceding my speech. With regard to the work on the adoption of the budget law, it is worth adding a picture of the meeting room. [[You must resent your marshal.]] Here, an aggressive group of Members... [[And did the opposition organize...?]] ...total opposition prevented normal work on this law here, blocking access to the speaker, also blocking the possibility of access to your marshal. [[What was the marshal doing?]] I also ask for more imagination in the use of the acquis of Polish parliamentarianism, which is now 550 years old and belongs to the oldest in Europe and in the world. Please take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen! I took part in the honor of presenting the implementation of the budget in terms of part 29: National defense. I think that in this part we will also be able to discredit some of the claims that have already been made here before. But it has not been given much attention in the speeches so far, so I will allow myself to expand. National Defense, Part 29. The defence policy pillar remained its own defence potential, an organised, integrated defence system of the state. International commitments were carried out, self-defence policy in the field of Poland's security was implemented, ensuring effective protection of the independence of the state and territorial integrity, security and integrity of borders. These actions are structured into three priorities: to ensure the preparedness and demonstration of determined actions affecting security and defence, to support processes for NATO's capacity for collective defence, to support and participate in international community activities under international law in order to prevent the emergence of new sources of threats. The main objectives of the Ministry of Defence in 2017 stemming from the priorities of defence policy were achieved on the basis of the Ministry's plan of operations. Conditions were created to ensure the advanced presence of the military Alliance and allies in Poland, in line with the findings of the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016, the participation of modern military equipment in the equipment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the development of the Territorial Defence Forces, the development of cybersecurity, the definition of conditions for improving the functioning of the defence system in a long-term and long-term perspective. Other strategic objectives for the Republic of Poland in international cooperation were pursued in the Ministry of Defence, including deepening cooperation with the United States, increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of Polish priorities in the European Union, increasing the level of security in the region through intensive cooperation with European allies, within the V4 Group, in relations with Romania, Bulgaria, Great Britain, France, Germany, as part of the work of the Weimar Triangle and the North Group. Poland's position on the international stage was strengthened by the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in missions and operations undertaken within international organizations and in the coalition arrangement. Crisis situations have been countered, destabilising security in the Central European region. Ukraine's efforts to integrate with the Euro-Atlantic structures were supported. Particular importance was attached to strengthening the security of Poland and our country's position on the international stage, especially in bilateral relations, in particular with the United States, the North Atlantic Alliance, with the European Union, and through regional cooperation, among others. with the countries of the Visegrad Group, the North Group. Poland participated in all allied, coalition and EU operations in all strategic directions. The effectiveness of the implementation of Polish priorities in NATO has been enhanced. The year 2017 increased the role of the Alliance in carrying out its collective defence tasks. The NATO decision of July 2016 was implemented, which re-evaluated the previous approach to the security of the Eastern NATO flank. First of all, in mid-2017 NATO battalion battle groups in Poland and the Baltic States achieved full operational capacity. The Northern East Multinational Division in Elbląg was being developed. In May a meeting was held between the Heads of State and Government of NATO countries, with the participation of US President Donald Trump for the first time. The findings concerned defence expenditure and the fight against terrorism. In total, more than 100 training projects were coordinated in the international agreement, including with troops - Dragons, in the territory of the Republic of Poland, over 17 thousand. Exercisers. In 2017, 62 916 soldiers and military personnel were trained in military education units in the framework of professional training of soldiers, training candidates and volunteers for the purposes of the National Reserve Forces. And now, in summary, numbers. Namely, the revenue plan of the National Defence Ministry for 2017 amounted to 132 052 thousand. zł, implementation at the end of the year was developed at the level of 179 055 thousand. zł, so it's 135.6% The plan. On 31 December Ub. The implementation of the National Defence Ministry's expenditure plan after the changes amounted to 36 696 642 thousand. and represented 99.8% This plan. This is a response to the suggestion made by Mrs Tokarska from the Polish People's Party of failure to comply with obligations regarding this amount of expenditure. State-funded defence expenditure amounted to 37 281 985 thousand. zł, which, taking into account the increase in the budget from the special reserve for the purchase of aircraft for the transport of the most important persons in the VIP country by PLN 200 million, represents 2.1 in relation to the forecast value of GDP for 2016 adopted at the drafting stage of the 2017 budget. The expenditure plan covered by the Central Facility for 2017 was 12 461 240 000. PLN, and after changes at the end of the year reached the value of 12 219 249 thousand. zł. Implementation reached 97.7% compared to the original plan and 99,7% in relation to the plan after the change. The tasks carried out in the framework of the central in-kind plans were primarily aimed at securing the training of own and allied troops and the continuation of the process of reconvening war stocks, materials, fighting agents, food and medical materials, as well as equiping individuals with modern command systems, communications, computer science and the integration of automated command systems. Last year was characterised by full funding of tasks related to the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in missions outside the country and securing the needs related to the fulfilment of allied obligations within NATO. We can safely say that the budget in this section has been implemented in a responsible manner. This was possible only because we realised revenues of PLN 350.5 billion, i.e. 107.7% in relation to the plan. It should also be noted that only 42.7% have been implemented the value of the planned deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth to return to the situation of July last year, when during his visit the President of the United States, Donald Trump, spoke positively about Poland as a country which fulfils ally obligations. We are among literally several NATO countries that implement state budget expenditure on defence against gross domestic product under established indicators at one of the highest levels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know how much the PiS cost us or cost us in 2017? The PiS took 36 gr from each Polish-made zloty. And he didn't have enough, because he owed a debt, in fact, in debt to the next generation. In order to better illustrate how deep you reach into the pockets of Poles, into the pockets of Polish families, it is enough to convert this income, because it is primarily taxes and contributions. On the household basis, it's 53,000. zł. That's what the PiS cost us - over 50,000. on a household basis. You spoil Polish families every step of the way, take advantage of every opportunity. She's been here a couple of times. We're keeping a list of shames covering 32 titles right now. [[Applause]] 32 titles, because so many times you raised taxes, parataxes and introduced new, 32 new fiscal and quasi-fiscal weights. What are the consequences? By tightening the tax screw more than PLN 31 billion were drained out of the pockets of Poles, increased fiscal weights per household by more than PLN 2200. You're proud of the rise in income, and he's undeniable, tax revenue especially, but he's, first, the result of economic growth, second, as if to try on streams... [[From abroad.]] ...the increase in fiscal burdens, and, thirdly, the sealing of the tax system. But here I would like to draw your attention, and remind you that to a large extent these successes in sealing the tax system, this is the implementation of the programme adopted by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL [[Applause]] in 2014 At the time, we estimated the effects in the OSR for activities under this programme at PLN 17.5 billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u53	Thank you. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ministers! Mrs PSL is crying over farmers' fates, so I have... A, there is no pity, but I ask her: Where did money go to invest in producer groups during the period of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, especially soft fruit? I assure you that we will find this money from the Civic Platform and the PSL Club. [[But we... we had 2,17.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The year 2017 was the third year of implementation of programmes implemented using EU funds fixed for Poland for the years 2014 and 2020 amounting to EUR 80 billion. Over 40% this amount, which accounts for around EUR 32.5 billion, is managed by local governments of voivodships. The way and pace of use of EU funds depends to a large extent on the development of regions and our country as a whole. However, until September 2016, in all regional operational programmes the value of European Union funding in payment applications was less than PLN 900 million, which represents less than 1% funds allocated to Poland. In view of this situation, in order to avoid losing part of EU funding, 2017 was the year of intensive action to increase efficiency and accelerate the use of European Union funds under cohesion policy. In the state budget for 2017 in part 34.: Regional development was finally secured after changes of the amount of PLN 1570 million, while in the budget of European funds - the amount of PLN 12 192 million, of which the amount of PLN 12 669 million was spent, from the state budget - over PLN 1669 million, and from the budget of European funds - PLN 11 317 million. The under-use of the funds was due to various reasons, in particular the lower demand for EU funds under the programmes implemented... [[I'm sure it's our fault.]] ...by local governments of voivodships. At the end of June 2017, with regard to operational programmes, there was a very low use of EU funds. At the same time, there was a large variation in the level of their use by individual local governments of voivodships, e.g. expenditure certified to the European Commission under the regional operational programme of Opole Voivodship was 90.5% and were the highest of all voivodships, while within the RPO the Świętokrzyskie Voivodship was only 27.2%. This is the voivodship. with a high, more than 90% unemployment rate and one of the weakest economic and social indicators. As it turns out, only the marshal was not interested in signing contracts with beneficiaries, he extended the procedures for contracting and certification of funds and was the only one signing a pre-emptive one. As a result, by the end of the year instead of signing contracts at a minimum of 50% EU funds, signed below, and definitely below the number of contracts signed by the marshals of other voivodships, such as Pomorskie, Wielkopolska and Lubuskie, which are the leaders of these actions. [[After the PiS campaign, too.]] Does the Świętokrzyskie voivodship have a chance to make up for delays in relation to other voivodships? [[You were a voivode.]] Not to mention the delays in development in relation to the regions of the EU countries. Should the Minister of Investment and Development remind the Marshal of threats and encourage him to step up his efforts to make better use of the funds in local Poland? It may be considered that having financial resources alone does not guarantee development. In order to achieve this objective, rational management of these measures is necessary. Finally, in the country-wide reporting year, more than PLN 4206 million was spent on the country-wide basis than in 2016. Nearly 178% more was spent on the implementation of the programmes in the 2014-2020 financial perspective, while the expenditure on the implementation of the programmes in the 20072013 perspective decreased. During the reporting year, regions had a chance to accelerate their development and many voivodships benefited, not only from EU funds. The financial situation of local government units was also much better. In 2017, there was a strong 7.6% improvement in the implementation of income in local government units, which in many municipalities strongly contributed to the growth of investments and the improvement of the lives of residents. The increase in revenue was due to an increase in subsidies from the state budget by 15.6%. In the amount of the grant to local government units, the amount of nearly PLN 24 billion was the resources for educational services, the educational allowance and the addition to the flat-rate amount constituting State aid for the raising of children under the 500+ family scheme. The Government of Law and Justice has assisted local governments in carrying out their own tasks. Only for reconstruction and construction of local roads has the amount of 698 361,000 allocated to the local government. PLN in 1059 grants. The government transferred PLN 6648 million higher grants for the implementation of, among other things, the 500+ family programme, for the payment of the educational allowance and the addition to the flat-rate amount in foster care, the implementation of family benefits, maintenance fund benefits, the caretaker's allowance, for the operation of support centres for people with mental disorders. The government transferred about PLN 7.4 billion to the local government to carry out its own tasks. I would like to draw attention here to a complete change in government policy. When the government of the Civic Platform and PSL contributed tasks to local governments, without providing financial resources... [[That is not true, Member.]] ...the Government of Law and Justice co-financed the tasks of local governments. In addition, in the reporting year, there was an increase in income tax income from individuals of PIT and income from corporate tax of CIT at each level of the local government. In the case of voivodship local governments, the share of tax in central own income increased by 3.1%. in the powiats and by 1,4% in the municipalities. All this was done by sealing the tax system. And here I have to say that it is not true that the number of controls has increased. Only in Kielce, ladies and gentlemen, there were 227 controls in 2013. On the other hand, in 2017 - 55. [[Revenue carried out in 65%.]] Thus, with regard to the revenue that has been increased, the revenue from this in the state budget, this is the sealing of the tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u55	Thank you. Please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maintaining defence potential is one of the most important tasks of the state. PiS talks about the need to increase national defence spending, but in fact reduces this expenditure. According to the report of NIK in 2017, the government of PiS reduced its defence expenditure in relation to the limit resulting from 2% GDP, i.e. from the statutory record, by the amount of PLN 827 million. During the year 300 million defensive expenses were transferred to Part 42, i.e. to modernization of the Police, while the amount of PLN 527 million was allocated to the purchase of aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country. This expenditure was to be implemented under a multiannual programme and financed from outside defence expenditure. The reduction of defence expenditure by PLN 827 million is a breach of Article. Paragraph 7 1 point 1 of the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] And let me stress once again: You are talking about the need to increase defence expenditure, and in fact in 2017 you reduced this expenditure by nearly PLN 900 million. According to the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2017, maintenance expenses were increasing under the PiS regime, while expenditure on the development of the Armed Forces was decreasing. As part of the technical modernisation activities of the Armed Forces the Armed Forces carried out expenditure of PLN 7264 million, i.e. 1.5 billion less than planned in the Budget Act. You're refurbishing obsolete equipment from the Soviet Union. You have announced repairs of T-72, Mi-24 helicopters, and you're not getting new equipment. There were supposed to be helicopters. You have cancelled the procedure for the purchase of 50 modern multitasking helicopters. Where are the helicopters? This program is down. There are no helicopters. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] Where are the submarines? Minister Macierewicz announced several times: In a week's time, in a month's time, a contract for submarines will be signed. The show went down. There are no submarines. In 2015, we launched a program related to the acquisition of six marine vessels. In 2016, this scheme, this tender you cancelled. No drones. You said you'd get these systems. There's no rocket artillery. You're refurbishing the T-72 tanks. This is your contribution to ensuring Poland's safety. [[Shame.]] You can't say you're not doing anything. Well, you're retreating the Armed Forces back to the 1960s, 70s. [[Applause]] [[There'll be reconstructions.]] [[They're standing for now.]] But one thing, one thing worked out for you. There isn't even one helicopter for the army, but there are five planes to carry power. The implementation of this programme is a series of appalling, outrageous violations of the law, so as not to say harder. I believe that after the arrangements made by the Supreme Audit Office... Namely: the purchase of five aircraft was to fit in the limit of PLN 1.7 billion - I stress: 1.7 billion PLN - and be financed from money coming from outside national defence funds. The Minister of National Defence signed a contract, two contracts for the amount of PLN 3050 million. It exceeded the expenditure limit by PLN 1.3 billion. A threatening violation of the law. In the history of free Poland there is not such a gross violation of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Members should no longer act on this matter. There must be law enforcement in this case. [[Applause]] I ask from this speaker of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber: What actions have been initiated in connection with such an appalling violation of the Public Finance Act? Has the infringement of public finance discipline been initiated? Has the D.A. been notified? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, grade...]] This is only part of the infringement of this law. You have a mouth full of patriotism, defending your homeland, and acting to the detriment of the Polish army. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u57	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to the implementation of the 2017 budget in budget parts 18, 26 and 39. Ladies and gentlemen, numbers, percentages aren't political, you know that, so don't lie to reality. In each of these items I'm going to talk about, we have an increase in spending, an increase in revenue. And there are no omissions, and there is no such disgrace as it was when you ruled, when 10 ambassadors wrote to the Minister of Infrastructure that tenders for road construction is just one big scam. You have that information in the back of your head and remember that. Our actions are absolutely transparent. [[A voice from the room: Then give me these methods.]] We are absolutely in agreement with what we have assumed, and moreover, we are making good money, we are making good money. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're in pain, and I'm not surprised. You're in pain. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have the same documents as I have, as Mr Nobleman has, because these are documents presented by the Ministry of Finance, and there is an increase in income everywhere, there are no omissions. Ladies and gentlemen, great programs are being implemented. You don't want to admit it. [[What programs?]] And I'll tell you what, I'll tell you. The programs are well implemented. [[Choppers plus.]] But I'm gonna start with something that's gonna hurt you the most. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, a trivial matter, we recreate the post offices that you were decommissioning. [[Applause]] We have access, we give people access to post offices. Of course it's not important to you, because for you, the gray man was never important, you were interested in big things. We're reconstructing post offices... [[Voice from the hall: To sell the devotion.]] ...we play back, ladies and gentlemen, Polish capital, which is well reinvested in national, national investments. You asked me what great programs we're doing here, so I'm telling you. [[Tadeusz Rydzyk.]] As far as road infrastructure expenditure is concerned, rail transport expenditure on road safety tasks has never been of interest to you - we have growth everywhere. Take a look... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Take a look at the documents and don't bother me. Aviation tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, the spending of European funds is going well. You had a huge problem with that. [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] What did the Minister of Infrastructure find when he took office in 2015? Empty drawers, empty files without designs. [[What are you saying?]] All this had to be done for a year, for two years. And today we're doing it great. You're even worried that we're doing well. I can see it. I can see it in your face. But don't be nervous. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're going to make a great European budget, we're going to do a great national budget. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Road programs, railroads are well implemented, there are no scams. [[Applause]] Notice, there are no scams and there are no disgraceful Polish parliament of ambassadors' questions about what happened to the money... [[Voice from the hall: for prizes.]] ...why tenders go wrong as they should go. You guys had a huge problem with that. You weren't thinking about how to build roads, you were thinking about how to spend money. And we say, "We have money, we'll build roads." We build bypasses, we build highways, we develop airports. [[Where?]] For rail infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, we have 68 billion PLN in the perspective by 2023. This year's finale, so to speak, signing contracts. You're worried about the contracts being signed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And these contracts will be implemented from this year, because it took two years to prepare the investments. Your Minister of Infrastructure has done nothing about it. [[See how many roads the Platform built and how many you built.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in parts 18, 39 and 26, we are truly successful and these successes are simply your concern. There will be no omission of budgetary appropriations and no omission of budgetary appropriations in 2017. There is no problem with spending EU money - this is very worrying you - everything is going fine. There's a lot of investment going on, and that's why there's some problems, because the investments accumulate on the railways, on the roads. There are temporary difficulties in the fact that there will be some exemptions, e.g. railway in Silesia, there will be detours, but to spend EU money And to live well in five years' time, comfortably, you have to suffer a little this year. This is related to those expenditures which involve railway investments. High Izbo! I strongly support budget implementation. I am pleased that there are no scandals in 2017 that there are no comments on the state budget and the spending of EU funds directed by other national parties... [[Voice from the room: On the contrary.]] ...who observe spending money from the budget. I believe that budget implementation has a really good investment climate, an excellent investment climate. Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs use this budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They're raining.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u59	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ruining the economy takes a while, it takes years to rebuild. The banquet that you gave to Poles, as if Poles, and in fact to yourself, will cost us a lot. Edward Gierek in the early 1970s also gave Poles a fiesta and some thought that Poland was milk and honey flowing, and after 2, 3 years there were empty shelves, lack of money, Poles were not enough from the first to the first, we had cards, and debts had to be paid. I remind you - Gierka's debts were repaid after 42 years. Only the government of Tusk in October 2012 repaid Gierka's debts. And one more resemblance. Do you remember the words: government feeds, that shoe, that nerve? What are you saying at your banquet right now? Those awards just belonged to us. Poles 500 PLN, scraps, and you give yourself millions - awards for ministers, vice-ministers, heads of institutions and you hide everything. Where's your transparency? Last year, in the budget debate, I talked about the premeditated personal carousel in the Treasury companies. On the example of Energa, I have shown that you employ your colleagues for a short period in the Treasury companies, pay them huge money, after a year, a year and a half, and give them huge checks. It goes into millions of zlotys. And today, after Mrs Nykiel's interpellation, we know that these changes were 2.5,000, 2.5 thousands. personal changes in your time in companies of the Treasury. It is from a pure proportion that are already billions of zlotys. In fact, we're talking about you giving yourself millions, and you're giving people scraps, but you're not gonna pay off those debts, you're gonna pay off the Poles. There's one more very important thing. If the P.I.S. voted to remove a murder ban from the Penal Code, would it be allowed to kill? It wouldn't apply: don't kill? If the PiS voted in this Chamber to ban theft from the Penal Code, would it be possible to steal? It wouldn't apply: don't steal? It seems to everyone that it is not that the natural law applies and is, as Kant used to say, very deeply within us. What are we dealing with? The piss changes the law to make sure something that used to be theft isn't now. How is it possible that once in a public unit someone unauthorized for 11 months made decisions about spending public money, it would of course be the theft and scandal, and the prosecutor, and your nominee, spends 11 months of public money nomen omen in a space agency and nothing happens because you vote it's not stealing anymore. If any minister ever gave CBA money, it wouldn't be enough to steal it, it would still be a bribe, because you'd say he's giving money for it: and you know what, CBA boys, and get the fuck away from us. Now what's going on? Minister Ziobro gives 25 million CBA, and what do you say? That everything's okay. We change the law, we vote there's no stealing. It's not like time's running out. Hamlet said to Shakespeare: "This time is a bone broken from the pond, but this time does not end. This time is over only for you and whether it's Hamlet or Fortynbras coming to settle you, he'll settle you. I tell you, stop stealing. [[Applause]] [[You're funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is being listened to by a group of jurors from Mielec, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Please, Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a few words to discuss on the implementation of the budget in Part 20: Economy. It is a department that actually represents only a part of the budget, because in income it is 0.08% the total revenue of the state budget, and not much more in terms of implementation, because it is 0.65% the budget, but it is an extremely important economic area, because among the tasks carried out it is indeed to support what is happening in the economy. As far as budget implementation is concerned, revenue is planned at 304 million, I no longer give details, and implementation is at 92.5%. As far as expenditure is concerned, this is the amount of 521 million, I am not giving the ends again, and the expenditure limit has been increased by a total amount of nearly PLN 2 million, which is 382%, up to 2.5 million. As regards the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, in 2017 it was an area of operation of 212 companies with a total estimated value of over 30 billion, therefore it was a very large responsibility. Unplanned revenues appeared in the budget, dividends paid by companies which were subject to ownership supervision, i.e. the level of 81 million, the reimbursement of unused funds from grants, and the payment made by the National Capital Fund of PLN 72 million. In this area, the positive opinion of NIK, as a whole, was received by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Public Procurement Office, the Polish Committee for Standardization, the only dilemma concerning the Polish Space Agency. I would like to stress that, as far as these expenses are concerned, attention has been paid to supporting what is happening in the economic area Hence, in chapter 15095: the remaining expenditure activities in the case of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development have emerged amounts to help promote and implement everything that the High House has adopted in this legislative process, namely 100 changes for companies, business constitution, code of good practice, support for delegations, trade promotion departments, investments, embassies and consulates abroad, i.e. support for our companies abroad. I think that this is indeed also an area of very intense and clear action to support economic activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A moment earlier, one of the PiS Members was pleased that there was no problem with spending European funds, EU funds. [[None.]] Indeed, you will still have a bit of action with the Supreme Court and there will be no problems with spending European funds. There won't be any. [[That's a bad joke.]] I want to say a few words about how much propaganda there is and how much truth there is in this alleged sealing of the VAT system, in the collectionability of VAT. In fact, you've been lying to the public since the beginning of your reign. This was also raised in the speech of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] You started at the beginning of 2016, delaying VAT returns to businesses to show that this VAT is increasing. Then, in December, you showed what it really was like to return VAT to businesses. Not much, you paid back additionally VAT, which could not be returned until January. You did this to improve your 2016 and 2017 indicators. Now you are showing that there is a high rate of VAT growth in 2017. But among other things. What does it mean? It is due to such statistical actions, which you took at the turn of 2016 and 2017, but also because in 2017 companies passed on to the system of monthly VAT settlement. That's something to talk about. In 2018, you are hostages to your propaganda, because in 2018 comes out, as it really is, the true dynamics of VAT collection. If by May 2018, the download rate is 2.8% and GDP - 5.2%, means that the VAT gap is increasing. And that's the PiS-owska gap. [[Applause]] This PiS is responsible for increasing the VAT gap. PwC. You referred to their data, in conclusion, among others. to set up a committee of inquiry to collect VAT during our governments. I estimate that the gap from 2016 and 2017, the PiS-owska VAT gap, amounted to over 90 billion. And now, if we take into account the year 2018, it increases. This is your big deal. The VAT gap is the PiS scandal. You have to tell the truth about it. [[Applause]] Of course, in earlier years, action was taken to make this gap as small as possible. You, too, benefit in part from these activities, as economists today admit. It is a single control file, reverse VAT, joint and several liability. It's just that when it was tried in Parliament, it was voted in the Sejm, and you didn't support it, because that's what your fight for VAT is. This is purely political propaganda. I said: reversed VAT, joint responsibility and uniform control file - you use it and it's good that you use the budget, but telling us how much you sealed the system and that it's your actions, it's just plain propaganda and a simple lie. 90 billion. The question of the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform on extending the period under examination by the Committee of Investigation by 2017 will be debated in a moment's time at this meeting of the Sejm. I hope that if you are not afraid of this, you will support it because you need to investigate the 90 billion that have leaked VAT during the PiS regime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u65	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! All gathered, excellent, noble guests, jurors! Ladies and gentlemen! I took part in the reference to this budget. [[The jury is in the Supreme Court.]] Yeah, in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an analysis of the implementation of the budget by the Supreme Audit Chamber. I want to thank you for this critical analysis, for all your comments. It was not indulged in by anyone, nor by our predecessors, of which we were eager to benefit, nor by us who are now ruling, because there are various criticisms about us. Keep it up. The Supreme Chamber of Control is part of the excellent traditions of the predecessors and is needed. You need it just as much as you need the opposition. One of the classics said a weak government that has no strong opposition. We have a problem because this opposition seems to be gone at all. Today we heard a lot of things from this tribune-- third, fourth, and not the most important thing. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! From this obnoxious book I will quote one quote on the budget for the previous year: Economic growth has translated into an improvement in the material situation of the population. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] While the real increase in average wages was quite moderate, the level of the lowest wages has increased significantly. The unemployment rate and the proportion of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, including extreme poverty, have also decreased. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The most important measure of budget assessment is what it meant for an average person. Our hero is a student, a patient... [[Patient, especially patient.]] ...a family of many children, a sick, elderly pensioner who has the lowest pension. Yes. Who are you defending? From this bleacher, one of her classmates said in a powerful uplift, and I quote: Mr Cymanski, children in schools are starving. Ladies and gentlemen, 500 zlotys, which in the extreme situation receives a family, divided by 30 - I think you in the finance committee can count - this is 16 zlotys with a piece. What is the feed rate in hospitals and many families? What are we talking about? Is it possible to sow so much from this place in such wild lust, blind passion to strike only this PiS? [[Exactly.]] Just wait another year. In this case, the judge will be the voters at the urn. If it's so scary... This criticism - 32 raised taxes, benefits, tributes, and there is one more thing, you certainly haven't missed the tax-free amount here. And yet the weakest, to those who have very little, we have raised this amount - modestly, it is true, but nevertheless - and the richest, who hold the Lord God, hold, hold hands, we have plucked the 500 zlotys. Is that something to be ashamed of? That's the reason to boast. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...because this money goes to the weakest. And we're not getting off this road. And here we have the front of the defense of those who really are cresus. Let's look at the European Union again, let's look at what it looks like. [[Rewards of shame.]] Who are you defending? Who are you defending, I'm asking in public. We may be making mistakes, that's true, but we want to see that the realization... [[Exactly.]] Don't worry. Time is running. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Fortunately.]] ...the budget, consistent, contributed positively last year and we have today a fairer state than we used to. It's out of the question. [[Applause]] It's out of the question. And that's what the facts and numbers are saying. You could have them... [[Rewards.]] ...here to quote many. I'll say one thing. On 12 December last year, the new Prime Minister, old and new, Mateusz Morawiecki, said a very important thing. A thriving economy is a prerequisite for a generous social policy, as it is now, and we will continue our social programmes, and we will strengthen and develop them. [[Applause]] Yeah, it's about balance. Between development, between growth in the economy, the need to maintain the economy, dynamics, competitiveness needs to remain balanced. And this has to be balanced with the need not to give out, and you use those words, just investment, support, helping the weakest. [[Applause]] This is a fair country. And I'm proud. I am a good witness here - because many years my ways have spread in various matters, they have ruled differently, we have also - that today we are really dealing with change. We're making mistakes. We need yours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] criticism, but not criticism, no [[Applause]] Primitive charges. You've been clinging to our miserable bonuses, those bonuses that ricocheted at us, but it's blind... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: That would be enough for...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u67	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u68	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Finance doesn't exist, I think she was embarrassed by the way you're talking about this budget. As the rapporteur said, this is an exceptional budget, shamefully adopted in another room. [[Applause]] You were ashamed to give access to this opposition budget so that she could talk about it. It's a shame. If I were to say that about how the Prime Minister spent on cosmetics and makeup, I would say that it wouldn't help the powder, the roses, anything, even if you powdered it. [[Applause]] implementation of this budget. We must speak of the truth, as my previous speaker said, so let us unveil this truth. You said it yourself. This €80 billion for European investment who brought it? Donald Tusk, previous government. [[Applause]] Do you know how to spend money? No, because everyone said, starting with the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the President of the National Bank of Poland, that we had the lowest level of investment. What's left of this 500+? Okay, we all agree, we hold on to it. But you have imposed an additional 22 taxes, pull them out and leave debt in each Pole's pocket of 53 thousand. zł. So today we live on credit and future generations will pay it back. What could you say? You have not made road investments, there is less money for road investments even in relation to what you have planned. What's wrong? Higher inflation. And if you count this - count this - how much did you draw through higher inflation from each pocket of the Polish family, all those who work. On the 2017 budget of PLN 1 billion for television, to make a nicely powdered Prime Minister look on TV, less money for pensioners, a program for medicines for pensioners, a reduction of PLN 25 million. [[It's a shame.]] Why didn't the state give the pensioners money for drugs? And if we were to constatate and compare ourselves this way, in the crisis Poland was the leader in economic growth, and today we are in the middle of a pelletson and unfortunately Romania is chasing us away. This budget is powdered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This implementation of the 2017 budget does not deserve support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u69	Thank you. We move on to the questions, because the time for the club appearances is over. If any of you wanna sign up for any more questions, you're welcome. I'll close the list after my first speech. Time, two minutes. You are starting with Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u70	I have a question for you, President of the National Bank of Poland, representative of the National Bank of Poland. The National Bank of Poland has so far conducted a competition of gold interest for middle school and polyceal youth. It goes on, among other things. about knowledge about the benefits of having Polish money. Is this competition and will continue because, I think, it is useful and does not require a high amount of youth prizes? What are the fundamental advantages of Poland's own currency, in the opinion of the President, and do you take into account the situation that the euro area may fall apart, similar to what has happened in the past with other national monetary unions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u71	Thank you. Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question which has already been asked in this Chamber, not only by me, namely, I wanted to ask: What is the point of work on Tax Ordination, such an important act for raising the revenue of the budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests at the gallery! As the rulers presented the implementation of the budget for 2017, it was only audible, achy. I would like to ask the Minister: When will the budget of the country be balanced, without any deficit and sovereign debt? You have to look for savings, just as housewives do. I will give you such a graphic example of small household management, and I would like to see government managers, financial managers, manage the economy too, so that they balance the state budget so that they don't spend more than we have, because you have no right to indebt our children, our grandchildren for years to come, so that they can pay back their entire lives later. Let us strive for that, and that is all, not just the rulers, but all of us. Let's organize, run not only the state, but also the cities. Balance the budget, because it's the most important thing for our country, not to indebt it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u76	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This subject has already been discussed many times in this Chamber, but also earlier. I'd like to mention the topic of prizes. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know who to address, but I would like to ask you to answer this question in writing and I would like this to be a comprehensive answer on the prizes paid in the Prime Minister's subordinates - now to the Prime Minister - ministries. I'd like it to be divided into several parts. Firstly, what awards, for which specific ministers and in what amounts were paid to ministers were paid to the Deputy Ministers in the rank of Secretary of State and the rank of Undersecretary of State? Another thing I would like to ask you is: What rewards were paid in specific ministries in political offices with regard to specific positions? I would also like to know how much money went to the awards in the sub-ministerial units, in all the units that are subject to the ministry. I'm asking you to answer that question. I would also like to ask you this: How much in 2017 did the ministries spend on so-called. VIP showrooms at airports? Because, as is reported today in press speculation, these were horrendous amounts for the luxury of ministers and their subordinates. That's why I'm asking, how much money went to these VIP salons at airports? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u77	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will concern the state of tax arrears at the end of 2017, which was very high, amounted to PLN 92 400 million and was almost 16 billion, i.e. by more than 20%, greater than in 2016 This score is more than twice as high as 3 years earlier. In the structure of tax arrears, the highest position is, of course, VAT, which amounts to more than 80% of all arrears. My question is: What is the reason for such a large increase in tax arrears? Isn't that the result of the organizational revolution you gave to customs and IRS employees last year? That's my question. I would like to inform Mrs Zuba that you have been in charge of Poland for almost 3 years. I hope you know the way to the European Union. It's hard to have Today, he's complaining to the previous government to secure your soft fruit money. This is some kind of psychic. How can you ask such a question? [[Applause]] Not much, I don't think you know that the Ukrainian border is almost open either. There are raspberries and strawberries all over the tirami. You probably don't know that either. This is the particular situation, but the money was supposed to secure your previous government. Let me just add: take a good look, or you won't use it either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PROFESSOR. There's a realization there. Only 20%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u79	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister of Finance! The Minister mentioned that expenditure on the handling of the Treasury debt in 2017 in absolute terms proved to be lower both in relation to the values of 2016 and in relation to the amount planned in the Budget Act for 2017. Can the Minister describe how the costs of handling the Treasury's debt in relation to GDP were incurred in 2017? What part of all budget expenditure were they? Is it much or little compared to previous years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u81	Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am worried about Mr Rzońca because he is unable to come out of this parallel world of government propaganda. He convinced the High House that the government was very good at investing EU funds. Mr President, I would really like to encourage you. The data of the Central Statistical Office are available to the public. Just to find out that in 2017, state budget expenditure on co-financing EU projects was 5 billion lower than in 2015. Do you know what that means as a result? That total investments co-financed by the European Union dropped by PLN 20 billion, which is 30% How can you say in this Chamber, from this speaker, that you are doing great with spending EU funds? It's just a lie. I am also worried about Mr Cymanski, who does not understand that the poorest country is helping them in such a way as to give them a fishing rod and not fish. This rod is so that the generations and children of today's parents are doing great, working to make work worthwhile for them, to increase their prosperity, not to give away money. This really is the inheritance of poverty, that's what you're leading to. Plus, you're doing it out of debt. [[Are they hungry or not? Are they hungry?]] And I have a question for you, Minister of Finance: Why did the Minister give 80 million PLN and fail to implement a project co-financed by the European Union e-Taxes? Please answer in writing also the second question: How much did the Polish taxpayer's critical applications, salaries and checks for boards and supervisory boards change as in kaleidoscope? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u83	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that we have this debate today, because we can hear the hurricaneism on the one hand, on the other hand - the discipline of this budget. In fact, you should look at the facts. Mr Cymanski mentioned several groups here, which are the beneficiaries of this budget. If that is so, I am very happy about it, because the budget is not for the rulers, it is for the citizens, but certainly the beneficiaries of this budget are not Polish farmers. Unfortunately, in 2014, earlier in the debate, there was 8%. agricultural expenditure, and now it is 5.7%. We see a sharp reaction from the farmers. I'm not saying they weren't there before, but right now farmers are protesting, and that's what they're protesting in different agricultural production departments. It is about fruit and vegetables, irregular problems with the estimation of damage, imports of agricultural products from Ukraine. I have one specific question regarding the common agricultural policy, because we see that 20 billion are planned in the 2017 budget law and only 16 have been spent. Somewhere there was no 4 billion, less than 4 billion. Something's wrong with spending that money. They will not be eternal, they will end, and investment in agriculture is very much needed. Agriculture is specific, it's been confirmed again this year. Many things don't depend on the farmer. In other production departments a lot depends on entrepreneurs themselves, and here we see: drought, ASF. The farmer, even the most trying, does not affect all the elements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u85	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u86	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! In his report, Mr Noblet said that budgetary revenues from gambling taxes had not been realised. I would therefore like to ask what is the reason why these revenues are not realised. At the same time, I would like to ask how much CIT revenue comes from companies controlled by the Treasury. Similarly, I would like to ask how this applies to PIT receipts, i.e. how much tax will be paid by pensioners, pensioners, officials, i.e. all those persons who are likewise financed directly from the State budget or indirectly. Aren't we paying ourselves? And what's the scale of that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u87	Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In accordance with the Act which establishes the "Programme for the modernisation of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service" between 2017 and 2020, the amount of 9200 million is planned to be spent on the implementation of this programme from the State budget. I would like to ask how much and for what projects in 2017 the funds planned for the implementation of this programme have been spent. I would also like to ask if the funds for this programme will be valued in the coming years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u89	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you what happened to the invoice register, because we all see that you're actually chasing the heels when it comes to sealing the tax system. We all know that the best tool and the best solution is the online invoice register. This seems to have been the conviction of Minister Szalamach and also Prime Minister Morawiecki. Many times we have heard declarations that the work on the invoice register is ongoing, deadlines have been moved. The original... In response to such interpellations, I was informed that by 30 June 2017, critical applications are to have a ready product, practically to test, and from 1 January 2018 the register will enter into force. An estimate of the benefits resulting from the introduction of this register, estimated at PLN 3 billion per month, also came from one of the vice ministers. And today we're talking about building a register based on JPK... I understand, because this is a system where we have a list of accounting evidence, invoices, but post factum we were talking about an online invoice register, and it's certainly not the same tool. The question is, did we stop working? If so, why? Let me repeat again, this is the best tool possible when it comes to combating VAT fraud. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u91	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the issue of the critical application mentioned by the honourable Member, there was a great deal of controversy in the course of the analysis of budget implementation around the Justice Fund. 25 million PLN allocated to CBA according to the Supreme Audit Chamber's assessment is the money which was transferred in violation of the discipline of public finances, in violation of the financing rules of the Central Anti-corruption Office. But this is also very controversial in terms of the conflict of interest that has occurred, a conflict of interest that may actually bear the mark of political corruption. Why? In fact, because both the Justice Fund and the Minister for Justice are subject to control by the CBA and, at the same time, during the financial year, so to speak, in breach of the discipline of public finances and the principles of CBA financing, they transferred PLN 25 million to each other for this purpose. Minister, I have a question. First of all, what are you going to do about it? Secondly, how do you intend to secure taxpayers' money - because it is not your money, it is the money paid by taxpayers, Poland is not a country flowing oil - from such an inadequate spending of money within the budget? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u93	Thank you. Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is about helping the repatriates. In the State budget, expenditure is planned annually for assistance to repatriates in accordance with the Law of 9 November 2000. Has there been an increase in expenditure on the financing of this aid in 2017, and for what tasks have these appropriations been allocated? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u95	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of new equipment - renovation of the old one, coming from the time of the Soviet Union. But after all, contracts are signed, and the new equipment is gone. Why? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, this government is making huge advances. At the end of 2017, the outstanding advances in the Armed Inspectorate alone amounted to 9186 million. Over 9 billion outstanding advances. And do you know what the annual spending plan for this inspector is? Seven billion. The amount of outstanding advances shall be 126,5% the overall limit of expenditure for the year concerned. How can a budget be conducted in this way, a state budget being implemented? The budget, on the one hand, borrows to finance its expenses, and you spend $9 billion in advance with a light hand. This is your economy and your keeping an eye on the interests of the state budget. And a second area related to the defense industry. You said the big defense effort was an opportunity for the defense industry. You spent over 3 billion on five planes. Do you know how much Polish industry will be involved in this? How many on those planes? [[Zero.]] Zero. You signed a 16 billion-dollar contract for the air defense system. Do you know what the Polish industrial share is? [[Zero.]] 4%. You should be interested in one case already described on the basis of CBA documents. In the Polish defence industry a business-social arrangement was created to deliver money. There's a deal at last. It was identified by the state services, by the CBA. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u97	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You boasted in your reports, as revenue grew, how the VAT system was sealed. I do not want to receive all the elements, because probably some of these efforts were successful, but it has to be said that there was no government that would have introduced several different kinds of danins, taxes, charges, recycling charges, no one knows what. It simply affects that this budget is bigger. When we talk about the budget, it is always important to know that this second element is equally important - for which we draw these tributes from citizens and for what we use them for. When you look at these expenses, it's hard not to get the impression that they weren't so fully distributed as to say honestly, in response to social needs. I do not want to accuse you of your attitude towards people with disabilities who have spent 40 days here not so long ago and have been looking forward to any support. [[Even showers.]] What was prepared by the government turned out to be a drink, because, as you know, everyone says, no rehabilitation will be received within 7 days. On the other hand, you took great care to secure your own needs. I am not referring to the Members of the PiS, but for example. government administration - bonuses on an unprecedented scale. Today we know it's not 1.5 million. 1.5 million is only for constitutional ministers... [[Voice from the room: Billion.]] ...for everyone, it's a few million zlotys. Transport costs - huge increases despite fewer kilometres. Another issue that aroused emotions and was also discussed here is the cost of the painting. It just shows how greedy you are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And greedy when it comes to this state money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u99	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u100	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In 2017, we had a very large increase in VAT revenue. To what extent was this growth due to a better economic situation and to what real action to combat tax fraud? The government has promised to increase the availability of medicines for the elderly. Is this why additional resources were allocated to seniors over 75 years of age in 2017? Another question. Dear Minister, in accordance with the Law establishing the "Programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service" in the years 2017 and 2020 it is planned to spend PLN 1.5 billion from the state budget during these years. My question is: To what extent and for what projects in 2017 have the funds planned for the implementation of this programme been spent? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u101	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u102	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski! I value your rhetorical skills, but how can you not be ashamed? How embarrassed are you to be the face of all these irregularities? For what? They make millions. And you? You've lowered your salary. [[What millions?]] How can you justify all these constant irregularities with the same tune: and we gave them 500+? [[I'm not...]] It's not children, it's their parents, and these kids are gonna be paying off these debts for years. [[Applause]] You don't get it. Tadek, understand. I would like to ask for a written reply to this question for me and for the Member. We already know that in this staff carousel in the Treasury companies in your time there were 2.5 thousand. Changes. I'd like to know how many of these two and a half thousand, please. people earned in basic salary, with prizes, bonuses and briefings. Then, Tadek, your eyes will open. [[Applause]] You can't brag about NIK's judgment. Such an assessment, so that there are three negative and 26 descriptive - i.e. 29 parts of the budget do not have a positive opinion - has never been. [[Applause]] I ask, what have these people been done? Other than what was fired from work, but only some, did something happen to them? What happened at the Polish Space Agency? Has anyone moved, except for his release, a man who's been stealing public money for 11 months? [[Applause]] Well, without authorization, he spent 11 out of 12 months spending public money. [[Voice from the courtroom: You may have a trial.]] Yeah, that's your attitude. You're about to vote that I, speaking of stealing, am committing a crime, and whoever steals is fine because he's PiS. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u103	Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by guests from Jurki from Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u104	And we cordially greet you. From the podium, we greet you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u105	Yes. And now this is Mrs Elżbieta Stępień from the Modern One.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u106	Yes, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your vote. Dear Members, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Chamber of Control! My question is addressed to the Minister. Namely, one of the inspections of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerned the sealing of the tax system. Following the audit recommendations, it was established that a central invoice register was necessary. Therefore, a company of Critical Applications has been established, of which you are your superior. And that's what's going on -- this company started and there's not much going on outside of it. I wonder if you have already carried out a current analysis of the company's financing in terms of fixed costs and orders to the Ministry of Finance, in terms of its economy and functioning and the purpose of increasing its capital. This concerns the final settlement and contractual penalties of the e-Taxe contractor for the timely execution of notifications and incidents in the framework of the post-implementation assistance services provided and the maintenance of the e-Taxes system for the years 2014 and 2017 and taking steps to fully verify the correctness of the implementation of the application services. Is prior to the shopping process... Did you verify the state of your resources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u107	Thank you, too. I invite Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! State public debt at the end of 2017, calculated according to national and EU methodologies, decreased year by year, both at nominal value and measured in relation to GDP. Can the Minister describe the size of the debt-to-GDP ratio in Poland vis-à-vis other countries of the European Union? Is our debt greater or smaller than in the largest countries of the Union, such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Italy or Spain? And second question. The tax system has been sealed, in particular in the area of VAT. However, is it not the case that a percentage of the increased VAT revenue in 2017 was due to the average VAT refund time extended by the fiscal? Does the Minister have up-to-date data in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u109	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform. Mr Konwiński is not here. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, in 2017, the pay gap between the various staff of the various agencies under the Minister of Agriculture increased significantly. For example, the average salary in 2017 in the National Agricultural Support Centre amounted to PLN 7085 and in the Agency for Development and Modernization of Agriculture - PLN 4607. So large a discrepancy, that's about 3,000. zł, it raises doubts and seems unjustified with the tasks that these two agencies carry out. Moreover, in recent years the various costs of compensation resulting from infringements of labour law have skyrocketed. So the employees, the former employees, received compensation. For example, in 2014 this amounted to around 61 thousand. PLN, while already in 2017 - 709 thousand. Evil, ladies and gentlemen. It's an unbelievable growth. This, of course, demonstrates such a gross employment policy, absolutely arbitrary, and I question the powers of those who manage these agencies. Therefore, I have a question: What are you going to do about it? What actions are you going to take to ensure that in the following years these gross disparities, which are not justified in the tasks carried out by the various agencies, are eliminated, and those extremely tight salaries, e.g. in KOWR - probably: Cobra should be called, it's such a leap on these salaries [[♪ The bell ♪]] - they've just been realized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no chopper program. In Mielec, Minister Macierewicz announced: 2016 - two helicopters, 2017 - eight, 2018 - 11. There are no weapons in the Polish army, there are no purchases, there is no fulfillment of this word. There are awards. ASF fire stations. Before the government was taken over by the PiS there were two, spread - 32. There is no control of African swine fever. There are awards. Cheers. We said and we warned you that buying dentobuses was a bad idea. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out the shortcomings in public procurement for dentobuses. So? And you're not ashamed of that? And not apologize? But there are prizes. Did it belong to you? You paid those prizes like nobody else before you. It was a real money heist. The prizes were paid for 8600 thousand. Minister, Minister, really tell us: Did these awards belong? Because Prime Minister Szydło said these prizes belonged. But did the marshal want to be different and he didn't want to... I mean, the marshal had to promote himself, too. An additional nine people were employed in the firm and two Marshal advisors for the marshal. It's like we're saying, in a vision. And what's left of the marshal? What do you think? On the bookstore or publishing market the most expensive book in Poland - 750 PLN. Mr. Marshal went to the anniversary in Lithuania and published a book with his [[♪ The bell ♪]] photos. He wanted to show off something, too. Did these awards really belong, Minister? [[Applause]] Here, please answer us, not like this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...swirling. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u113	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll give myself some privacy. I presented the position of the club today, but I also presented the position regarding the 2018 budget in January, and somehow it was so lucky that four days after my substantive but critical assessment of the budget... I was trying to get a loan from the PKO BP bank. Four days later, I got a text with a negative decision. A mortgage of 200,000. They say I don't make enough money as an MP, 7,000. It's not enough to get a loan for 200,000. zł. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Gowin would've gotten it.]] I said, "Okay, I'm moving on." I went to Pekao SA. Second bank. There, of course, it all went up to two months. The local group of people who should decide said that everything is okay, but it is strange that the case went to Warsaw, to the staff, where the president of the PKO BP bank or the highest staff had to decide whether such Parda could get 200,000. zł credit. I understand that if it were 100 million zlotys, the president is needed, but 200,000. Evil for Parda... [[Voice from the room: Too much.]] Thank you for the time you've given me. It's just a shame he made a negative decision, and I didn't get that credit at PKO BP either. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The question is whether, after today's critical but substantive assessment of budget implementation, I will also not get credit this year if I report to state banks. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let me just add that the polite workers informed me that it was a political decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I wanted to thank the marshal for giving me the opportunity to ask a question, and secondly, I would recommend that he go to the SKOK and sign up for the PiS to go to the SKOK - he gets a loan there right away, so that there will be no problem. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS says this: we will build a central airport. He tells us: listen, in a few years, a million electric cars will be driving here. What are you talking about? You can't even build a passenger ferry. A year ago, the keel was nailed and what? Where's the ferry? I'd really like to make this shuttle stand up to wrap you up and get you out of here. And that would be the best gift for law and justice. [[But you'll sail early.]] But there's a question for the Minister. Minister, you are responsible for what appears to be... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Why are you talking so much? [[I'll take the bet.]] Come on in here, say something clever from this podium, not from the jury. You're... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...Mr. Sergeant.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u117	Now, now, gentlemen, take it easy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u118	Minister, you are responsible for controlling the spending of our money, and I am asking because of all your achievements, where our ultra-modern voting systems have gone. In 2017, several million zlotys were reportedly spent on this system, and we are working using a system that is 20 years old. Excuse me, where's the money? Where's the deal? Are there contractual penalties for a company that didn't do it? You can't, you can't even do something like this to replace those devices that are 20 years old, and you're going back to pre-top systems. [[They were here and they were taken off.]] We can, of course, go back to manual counting, because I can see that you're just having a little bit of modernity out of the way. [[They put it on and they took it off.]] So consider whether you are capable of anything at all. Minister, the question is: What happened to the money that was spent on this system that was supposed to work last year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u119	Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm not gonna ask about private matters. I wanted to ask you about historical policy. 2018 is a significant year, the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. This is an important event, an historic event, a worthy event and every Pole should remember this event. They should be promoted not only in Poland, but also in Europe and the world. Therefore, my question is: Has the government already taken action in 2017 to prepare a dignified, prominent event related to the anniversary of Poland's regaining independence in 2018? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's purposeful, it's very customary.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u121	Thank you. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! First of all, we thank you very much for analysing the implementation of the state budget in 2017, because this analysis opened our eyes to all of us, why PiS gained power and why it exercised power. The increase in prizes in 2017 compared to 2014 and 2015 was 12 times. In 2014, in 2015 prizes for the highest government officials are expenditures of 700,000. zł. The year 2017 is a record year: 8600 thousand, 12 times the prizes for the greedy government of PiS. That's what the power was for, and that's what you were after. [[Around Maciej.]] As part of this, it is worth asking about things that are not included in the state budget for 2017. I have a specific question for you, President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski: Did you notice in the budget of the State for 2017 the means to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal that the right to provide care for persons with disabilities was incompatible with the Constitution? It will be the fourth anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling coming into force in a moment. The government analyzes, the government wonders, and people with disabilities are discriminated against in this country. And it's a shame that Mr. Cymanski didn't mention it. 4 years - failure to comply with the ruling of the Court, although in 2015 the draft law was ready in this case and the funds were reserved in the state budget. Why are there no funds for disabled people and there are 9 million for prizes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the highest government officials, for the PiS officials? [[Applause]] [[And that's where it takes $9 billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u123	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of the Republic of Poland takes the view that the best way to help against the unprecedented humanitarian crisis in the Middle East is to provide support directly on the spot. In September Ub. The media was widely commented on the visit of representatives of the Polish government to Lebanon, which was next to Syria, from which approximately 1.5 million refugees came to Lebanon. It just so happened that in July Ub. I had the pleasure of being private in Lebanon, which has about 4.5 million people, and I saw what camps look like and how refugees live in them on the border with Syria. I would therefore like to ask: What financial support did the government give in 2017 in response to the humanitarian crisis in the Middle East? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u125	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask President Glapiński because he boasted that he was the only, first president of the National Bank of Poland, who simply did not have to ask for anything. How much effort has it taken many governments and presidents of the National Bank of Poland for 28 years, i.e. since 1989, so that you can brag today that you do not have to ask for anything? [[Applause]] You forgot that this is the result of the work of many presidents, like Gronkiewicz-Waltz, like Balcerowicz... [[Oh, sure, sure.]] ... Fiddler, Belka. All of them worked just so that this Polish government and in general the Polish state would stand on their feet like today. As for the budget, the Minister is an economist. When are you just gonna stop running the budget of populism and mismanagement? Could you not point out to those who break the rule of law in the country that this is detrimental to the inflow of foreign direct investment? Let me remind you that in 2017 the value of foreign direct investment flows fell to the level of... [[14 billion.]] ... previously recorded during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 or even the debt crisis in Europe in 2013. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, an analysis of the implementation of the state budget for 2017. Findings and conclusions, page 7, one of the last paragraphs: Due to the increase in inflation at the unchanged nominal interest rates of the National Bank of Poland occurred in Poland in 2017. Are you aware, Minister, and State, you, the chief economist of the SKOKs... Isn't it the same in SKOKs that people save for free and actually give you money? Is this the way it is in SKOKs, or is it only in commercial banks that Poles save? This report clearly indicates that every dollar put by every Pole - not only a Pole - into the bank is in negative. Are you aware of how you are destroying the Polish banking system, how you are destroying the savings of Poles, whether you are completely unaware of it, or do you not know what the nominal interest rate of the National Bank of Poland is? Because that's what I have to consider. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u129	Thank you. Mrs Maria Zuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, First of all, I wanted to make a corrigendum that I am addressing to Mrs PSL. Just so we're clear, I don't expect PSL or the Platform to secure soft fruit funds. I'm just asking, where are the money that was secured for investments for producer groups that operate in the soft fruit area, and now there are no investments or financial resources. This is a completely different matter. At the same time, I am addressing the question to the Minister. Minister, when we worked on the 2017 budget, the discussion on education reform was very emotional, there were many concerns that 2017 would be the end of schools, that the entire educational system would be demolished and that this would be at the expense of children, parents, but also local governments. At that time, the government clearly signalled support for local governments, which would like to prepare a network of educational institutions in a rational manner and in line with the reform adopted, and also secured funds in the budget for checks for teachers, for the modernisation of offices, or actually for the reconstruction of medical offices. Today in the debate on the report nothing about this [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can't hear you. I ask you, Minister, to bring us closer to how the implementation of education reform has been carried out on the financial side. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, beautiful!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It seems you don't have a minister, but it's a shame. High Izbo! I have a report on the implementation of the general reserve in 2017. The general reserve was planned in 2017 for a fairly high amount of over PLN 228 million. I have no doubt that this reserve should be earmarked for unforeseen expenses. Meanwhile, what was the reserve meant for? For local expenses, for very small local expenses. These expenses, if we read the titles, there's at least a few hundred here. I can say, for example, that in the catering facilities, for the purchase of equipment, medical equipment, ambulances, for the renovation of nursery, kindergartens. These are good expenses, except they should not be financed from the general reserve. [[Voice from the room: Good.]] [[We support local governments.]] The Member says you support local governments. This is how Members who have good access to the Minister of Finance knock on the Minister's door make a list. They are about to go to their regions and boast about how much money they have brought to their regions from the state budget. [[Applause]] [[That's what you think.]] This is not how it's supposed to be done. I would like to ask the Minister - perhaps the Minister would answer this question in writing - how much money has actually been transferred from the general reserve for unforeseen expenditure. In percent, actually, in the beams, 'cause it'd probably be promile. If President Kwiatkowski could also answer... I also tried to ask this question at the public finance committee meeting, but I got a rather evasive answer. Should the expenditure currently allocated to regional tasks actually be financed from the general reserve? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But shouldn't there be a significant correction? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u133	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Bielecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Dear Izbo! Last time I was in my county town, I found out that our hospital ended that year with a much better financial result. This was mainly due to the over-executions paid for the previous years. We all know that health care has been in poor financial condition for many years, which is why I would like to ask: How much has the government allocated to fund from the state budget the claims resulting from the over-execution of past years? In addition, I would like to ask you to assess the budget or the debt of this budget, which in previous years were deficits, e.g. in 2010 or 2011 What it looked like in previous years, if the Minister reminded us so, then we would know whether this deficit is big or small this year. How much did the previous governments actually owe our country in terms of one Pole? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u135	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I very much regret that the Minister of Finance has not been in the Chamber for at least two hours, because I believe that the debate on budget implementation is a very important debate. It has always been that the Minister of Finance listened to this debate. Because how do you ask questions in the absence of the Minister? My question concerns macroeconomic issues and is based on an analysis of the implementation of the budget for last year. According to these materials, economic development in 2017 was mainly based on high private consumption. More than 60% in the economic growth structure. Other factors, on the other hand, played a much smaller role: public consumption - 0.6%, the balance of turnover with foreign countries and gross fixed capital expenditure, i.e. investments. The investments represented only 0.6%. The result of the investment collapse is a distant position of Poland in the European innovation ranking, where only Romania, Bulgaria and little Croatia are ahead of us. How does this apply to the strategy of responsible development and slides that presented this strategy, and which for a year were shown to us by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? Three years are coming, and the strategy is not being implemented. When will sustainable economic growth be driven by knowledge-based and organisational excellence? This is the main element of this strategy. Besides, this is the main element of the proper development of each country. When will that be? Maintaining such a low level of investment distances Poland from achieving these objectives set out in the strategy for responsible development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have any knowledge of this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u137	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I wanted to begin by thanking one of the messengers who said that she cared for our health. This is an absolute manifestation of humanitarianism. Thank you very much. It's always very important. I'll try to pay you back. I care about your health, too. But it's also about wisdom. Of course, our health is very important, but the functioning of the Polish state is also important. The old saying says that an intelligent man can be identified by how he makes money. But man's wisdom is how he spends his money. You will not question the pro-social policy of this government. You won't question me. [[Applause]] [[For the chosen, for the chosen, for their own.]] You don't stand a chance. It's just that no one's gonna admit it. But you're wrong, it's your problem, not ours. On the other hand, I would like to say, regarding the implementation of the budget, about 18 parts, because maybe one of you will question this. In 2016, when we talked about the implementation of the budget, we said that 50 million PLN was spent on thermomodernization. This year, when we talk about the implementation of the 2017 budget, five times more was spent - PLN 269 million. You're gonna have to question that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But it's not over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u139	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about your daily whispering of reality, your daily manipulation and lying directly to the public, directly to the citizens. I'm thinking of all the chaos around the various places of information, e.g. about the size of the deficit or supposedly gigantic investments in the past year, the level of which, as it turns out, has been the lowest since 1996. I want to ask you about your successes in VAT sealing. Here you will come across the devastating opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which pointed out that the key solution sealing the tax system was the introduction of a single control file, and whether the reversed VAT, as you know, the Civic Platform government prepared, carried out through the Sejm and handed you on a tray. This is directly about the strategic solutions that you have not supported in any way. Hence my question: When are you going to stop manipulating and admit that you are only heirs of our best solutions that you can only waste? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u141	Thank you. [[This is ridiculous.]] [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Yes, very.]] Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u142	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the implementation of the 2017 budget was good. We all know that, maybe we speak differently. The budget was good, but it could have been even better. Effective implementation of the state budget depends not only on the state, but also largely on local government units. I would therefore like to ask you this by presenting the problem earlier. A significant part of the expenditure of the State budget is the compensatory part of the general subsidy for local government units, i.e. municipalities, powiats and voivodships. It is known that the general subsidy measures are an important source of revenue for local government units and that the allocation of these funds is decided by the body constituting the units. Therefore, I would ask the Minister for information on how expenditure for the compensatory part of the general subsidy developed in 2017 compared to 2016. Was the amount of expenditure lower in 2017, or higher than in the previous year, i.e. 2016? What was the reason for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u144	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Minister of Finance! Oh, I'm sorry, I can't see. High Izbo! In November 2017, local media, local newspaper in Jastrzębie-Zdrój brought good news. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy and Treasury Grzegorz Tobiszowski handed over a check for PLN 1 million of the Jastrzębski Coal Academy of Talents on behalf of the Ministry of Energy. If this money is really passed on, thank you very much for it. It's a very good investment, I'm asking the Minister for more. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether these funds have actually flown from the energy department's budget and have been transferred to this end. Encouraged by this generosity of the Ministry and the Government, other sports clubs have asked me whether they can submit such requests, or whether they can count on funding from the state budget, from any ministry, which may transfer such funds. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance: What funds did the Ministry of Energy have in the state budget in 2017 to support the activities of sports clubs? Which sports clubs supported the Ministry of Energy from its budget in 2017? How high? What financial resources did other ministries have in the 2017 budget, and what sports clubs supported, apart from the Ministry of Sport, which by nature supports this activity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Clubs also ask what criteria they must meet in order to submit their applications. I understand I'm asking for details. I wrote about it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u145	Thank you, sir. Sorry, time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u146	I'm almost done, Marshal. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I'm asking for a possible written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u147	Time's up. Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u148	Mr. Marshal, I'm just technically speaking. If the Member actually finishes the last phrase, then the 15 seconds will be gone... Unless it's you. It's from upstairs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u149	Yes, sir, then I will answer you in this way: firstly, do not lecture me, and secondly, I remind you that, under the Constitution, communism must not be promoted in Poland. That's a remark before you say anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u150	A kind remark is not teaching. I would never let that happen to me. I'm in favour of an old envoy to allow myself to instruct a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u151	Let's get to the point, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u152	Get to the point, go. Mr. Marshal! My question is to the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, because it will be better to answer him, asking for a certain education, because it turns out that we are not the only ones not taught. The opposition has a learning problem too. It's worth it, you never get too much enlightenment. I'm talking about explaining what the real problem is. I'm referring to the analysis of the Supreme Chamber of Control. Scaring and embezzling public opinion with this deficit and public debt is an old-fashioned way. It's just like Balcerowicz. Isn't the real problem, as NIK points out, already moving forward, the ability to operate, to operate effectively, and the need to monitor indicators from this point? Why am I talking about this? Because the dogma of the Platform for many years was one rule: for children, for Polish children, everything. Everything but money. Except for the money. We do the opposite. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying, lying.]] Everyone was running with those rods and poverty was booming, the indicators weren't wrong. I'm asking you to answer that question. Because we're talking about education, we're talking about nutrition, we're talking about raising, we're talking about healing, and you're still talking about... [[No, you guys just about the money.]] Don't interrupt. I know it hurts. I know it hurts. ...you keep talking about this pillow, this baby pillow, that it's a cushion that absorbs the bleeding in the future. You have to invest and help today, not think about the pillow. Just like in this Dorothy: in the cradle, on her pink pillow. You have to be realistic today. And we're not spookyly attached to faith in indicators. We're talking about what this means for a particular family today. I would ask for a brief approximation, because it seems to me that there is a big mistake, and the opinion is very easily frightened, how many thousands, or even converted into individuals. You just have to stop because you're hanging on without... You replace the software void with such a blind, wild attack, and still on the horse of these bonuses you want to enter the Sejm. That rat's barely alive. Around Maciej. Talk about programs, ideas, not the same thing all the time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u153	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Reading the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, in Part 29: National Defense we can notice this entry: As a result of the conclusion of contracts for the purchase of small and medium-sized aircraft for the transport of the most important persons in the country within the framework of the aforementioned. the multiannual programme for the total amount of 3 052 041 000. an obligation exceeding 1 352 041 000 has been entered into. zł total cost of the programme as set out in the Budget Act for 2017 in conjunction with Resolution No 73 of the Council of Ministers of 30 June 2016. The Head of the Armed Inspectorate, by imposing an undertaking exceeding the established expenditure limit, infringed Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The 4th Public Finance Act. Plus, there is a violation of the Public Procurement Law. And I have a question here basically to the Prime Minister: What and to whom has he drawn or will draw the consequences of exceeding these powers and violating the Public Procurement Law Act, as well as the Public Finance Act? That's one question. The second question is more to the Minister of Defense. I saw the Minister of Defence in Radom in Radom, where he promised that the seat of the Polish Armed Group will be opened this year before the municipal elections, for an amount of about 20 million. No investment was created, there is no headquarters in Radom. I have a question about that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether the Polish Armed Group intends to resolve or will build its headquarters in Radom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u155	Thank you. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u156	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your voice. I have a question. It is, of course, difficult to argue with the economic knowledge of Mr Misia, who publicly asks whether a government official can pay with a credit card for drugs, right? But with you, as cost-effective as the Civic Platform, you can discuss. I wanted to ask the ministers whether they are aware of the following facts regarding the extremely cost-effective approach to the government's public finances of the Platform and PSL, such as the facts. the fact that the former minister of that government accepted congratulations not in bonuses and prizes, but e.g. in gold bars. Is it known that the President of the PGE Treasury Company, together with the Management Board, a close friend of the Prime Minister of that government, Prime Minister Tusk... that for a month's work this board received 7 million PLN of remuneration? Or do you remember Minister Sikorski looking for cigars and year-old cognac for Prime Minister Tusk? Or do you also remember the Emp@tia portal for homeless people that you founded for PLN 50 million and that two people used? [[How are the bonuses undone? How's the bonuses? How's the bonuses going?]] And do you remember when the Minister of Treasury of your government bought a hole in the ground in Chile for 12 billion zlotys, which we have problems with right now? Speaking of how you cared about public money and supporting Polish industry, I wanted to ask you where you renovated here-154. Isn't it in Samara? And you know how it ended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u157	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the euro. Namely, the euro remains the second most powerful currency in the world all the time. The euro crisis, you can say, is over. Since 2007, six more countries have joined the euro area and Bulgaria and Romania have been talking about and preparing to do so. Poland is already becoming some sort of enclave in the European Union outside the euro area. Membership of the euro area has budgetary implications. It means an easier inflow of foreign investment, because there is less exchange rate risk, it means cheaper loans for our companies on the European market, where they can borrow bonds, borrow loans, because there the interest rate is lower and the exchange rate risk disappears, it means lower costs of servicing the government's debt, whether directly in euro, which has a lower interest rate than a zloty or not at all, because if we are in debt in euro, then this exchange rate risk will not disappear, which means that if the extra cost were to disappear, these fees would disappear. I therefore understand that the decision to enter the euro area is a political decision. Decision to enter the euro area. Is that a yes or a no? What's the delay? It also means that this decision should be based on a sound economic analysis of the consequences, effects, costs and analysis in other countries. And I have a question for the Minister of Finance: Does the Ministry of Finance intend to conduct such an analysis of costs and consequences, the effects of Poland's entry into the euro area? I have a question for the National Bank of Poland: Does the bank intend to perform this analysis? What would be the costs and effects of Poland's entry into the euro area? We need this analysis because we cannot become a country that does not exploit this possibility in terms of its development, integration with the European Union, as well as a reduction in the cost of handling foreign debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u159	Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u160	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have another, but very important, question, since now we're running out of hands to work. Namely, it is about professional activity of Poles. The level of professional activity of Poles has fallen at the moment, I mean, this indicator has been the worst in 20 years. Maybe I'll quote the GUS data, as well as Eurostat. In young people - 24,34 years - it is about 70% in Poland. The average in the European Union is 90%. If data on how many hands you need to work are taken into account, then here we would have approx. 200,000. Hands to work. Also according to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, there are 723 thousand. households receiving 500+ for the first and only child. In this category, this is also the data of the family minister, the passivity ratio is 30%. Here we also have 300,000. Hands to work. I would like to quote other data, namely, I did such a simulation. It's a Polish 4-person family, where 2/3 of the national average earns a husband, and the wife wonders whether to go to work, but she only gets 22% net. In other countries, the average in the European Union is 60%. Ladies and gentlemen, if this does not settle, there will always be a lack of hands to work. And that's why I have a question for the government: does the government have any idea how to settle this case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Oh, there you are. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u162	I'm here. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over the last 2 years, we have seen excellent trends in the development of industry. Poland is the leader in Europe in creating new jobs in industry in general. It is worth supporting and stimulating these trends, and one of the methods of support is activity here. Polish Investment and Trade Agency. The tasks of this agency include: promotion of Polish industries, providing economic and commercial information, investment marketing, in general promotion of the Polish economy. Minister! I have a question: Which funds were transferred in 2017. Polish Investment and Trade Agency for activities promoting the Polish economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u163	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Before we go to the ministers' answers, I'm announcing a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 39 hours 13 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 15, 16 and 17 of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber will answer questions in writing. Now, please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Marian Banasi.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and Members, As Secretary of State and Head of National Tax Administration responsible for the collection of budgetary debts, I would like to refer to those total criticisms that are just about collection. To begin with, I would like to remind you of what happened during the Platform's and PSL's reigns. These words, I ask you, are none other than one of your ministers, namely, that we are dealing with a theoretical state at that time. Says the man who was in charge of the Secret Service, so he knew what he was saying. That's the best thing that ever happened back then. At the moment, I will focus on a few examples that reflect what we did in our governments, especially in 2017, and the fortress - and you know very well - that numbers and amounts do not lie. During 8 years of government, the Platform and PSL tax gap, ladies and gentlemen, amounted to about PLN 260 billion. What was the result? Well, the gray area then went crazy and, among other things, it went crazy. At that time, such pathologies ruled as extortion of huge, million-dollar amounts, which was treated not as a crime, but as a misdemeanor. We immediately changed that when the Law and Justice and the United Right took over. And what happened, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017? It was thanks to the reform of fiscal, customs and fiscal control services, which we made in 2016 that the national consolidated administration began to operate from 1 March 2017 - in 2017 we additionally downloaded PLN 30 billion into the budget from VAT alone. This is an undeniable amount, which you here, including the opposition, have all spoken of, even though you criticized us, claiming that this is not our merit, but yours. Moreover, in the case of other taxes, the total amount was PLN 42.5 billion. So we worked that money out. It's not the money you owe extra. We had money for 500+ and other programs that presented Law and Justice in their program. In addition, it must be made clear that the tax gap, which in the days of PO and PSL amounted to 26%, has been reduced in our governments by the National Tax Administration to 14% , and in 1 year. We have gone below the European average, which is 15.16%. These numbers don't lie, they speak for themselves. Also as far as control is concerned, the basic nightmare, which then dominated, were frequent checks, random, not resulting from a risk analysis. We changed that. Here we need to refer to those merits that Members have attributed to themselves, which they stress, as regards the single control file. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I in February 2016 - there is a document for this - I issued an order to set up a team and work on a uniform control file. And just a uniform control file, his analysis caused, among other things. - but not only because we also reorganized the entire structures - that we could have achieved these results that I am talking about in 2017. We've halved the amount of control. Previously these checks were random and we were just losing money from the budget, and the money didn't affect the budget. What I'm trying to say is that it's because of $38,000. In fact, the checks carried out were found to amount to almost 400 million, but it was money that did not reach the budget. In our day, the number of controls was halved - almost 23,000. - but irregularities were found to amount to almost 2 billion and this money was retained in the budget. [[Applause]] This demonstrates the effectiveness of our actions and the change in philosophy that is now under the rule of Law and Justice. As far as salaries are concerned, as was mentioned here, I would like to stress that salaries have not changed in the entire eight years of the governments of POs and PSL, we have only changed this. And the differences were so large that in the IRS employees received a salary of less than PLN 1500, PLN 1700, 1800. We have caused the lowest gross wage to be 3000 PLN. There were two increases in wages last year. The average is almost 400 PLN, 500 PLN extra money, which employees had never seen before, and they worked hard. Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the issue of VAT arrears, I would like to say where they came from. They came from post-control of what was previously carried out by the tax control office, because then checks were already actually carried out post factum, when the groups organized this money extorted from the state budget. We've totally changed that. There's no such thing today. Today we have an economic analysis department, a risk analysis department, and we're going to control where there's really a good chance that we're gonna be dealing with criminals and that these criminals are gonna be responsible. And I would like to stress that the changes that we have just introduced in early 2016 - that million-dollar extortion is treated not as a violation, but as a crime that extortion of more than 10 million is at risk of imprisonment for up to 25 years - they had, among others. here such a preventive character and such effect that this phenomenon no longer exists, and if it occurs, it is on a much smaller scale. [[Applause]] As I said, from 26% we reduced the VAT gap to 14%. We're taking notes and this year, ladies and gentlemen, there's still an increase in retrievability. Of course, he can no longer be as high as you imagine, 14% or 20% in VAT, as it happened in 2017, because we already have these most important things We did. Now we just have a bigger download in CIT, it's 26%. , and in other taxes. As for VAT, we also act effectively and internationally as regards customs and taxes, they ask us to present our achievements to them, show them how we do it. We made it that way to achieve just such a great success. And, ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I wanted to talk about was awards. Well, I'm here in this courtroom to tell you that I'm very sorry. We've put so much revenue into the budget. And the rewards only equalized the level of directors' salaries who work in our departments. We don't have 13s, we work too hard, we get results, and you make a big deal out of it. It's a shame. And we're really sorry because you have to look for irregularities, but not in paying prizes that aren't prizes, but they're equal to what we really should be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u165	Now you are undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance Paweł Gruza.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u166	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! A few general questions, a few specific questions. Maybe a few general remarks to begin with. A year ago there was also such a debate, a year ago there was doubts about the evident effects of sealing, there was talk about creative accounting. Today, from the perspective of the entire financial year, we have an objective confirmation of the correct direction of reform, the right direction of change. Meanwhile, you are already asking questions in the spirit of using the good solutions proposed in previous terms, to be heirs of them. That is not true. We have repeatedly stressed that the use of the shortcut "JPK" to determine the reforms introduced in 2015 - versus what happened during the last 2 years of our governments - is not allowed. The JPK currently applies the obligation to report all VAT transactions by VAT taxable persons in electronic form, in a compulsory manner, every month. This is the basic element of the tax seal. This is a basis for data that allows us to identify those areas and those taxpayers who unfortunately have these symptoms of disease, symptoms of problems with VAT settlement. There is no doubt that this is the effect of the sealing introduced in the current term of office. In previous terms, ad hoc, point, non-systemic actions were carried out. The extortion simply moved from industry to industry, from one fictional carousel to another. You can talk about the correlation between the VAT gap and the terms of office. You can also talk about synchronising the VAT gap with the CIT gap, with income taxes. We are not here dealing with accidental fragmentation of the tax system only in the field of VAT. The same, unfortunately, negative effects were observed in the case of income tax. This is also the subject of sealing. Thus, this revenue for 2017 was generated by the budget. The question is what is the economic impact of this income. Here we will present appropriate analyses, but I would like to remind you once again: the economic situation has been virtually over the last 10 years, and unfortunately it has happened that during this period despite the economic situation, despite the growth of GDP, despite the so-called growth. the macro base for the calculation of VAT has had nominal decreases in income from this tax. This is evident proof of the sealing of this system, unfortunately, during those periods. The specific question is whether VAT revenue is derived from retained VAT refunds. I would like to tell you that the case is being monitored on an ongoing basis. The rate of VAT refunds we are currently seeing is much faster than in previous terms. We're talking about a few dozen days on average, statistically, that we were able to give back to entrepreneurs. It's a big success. The European Commission has now launched a pan-European study on this issue. I hope that the rate of VAT returns in Poland will be very good in this comparison. Asking about CRF versus JPK. Here I can repeat once again from this place that the difference between the central repository of invoices or the central database, invoices and the single control file submitted monthly mandatoryly and electronically relies solely on the scope of information and the rate of submission of these data. Here, mainly because of the success of the JPK, we believe that this instrument can evolve and can be expanded with these functionalities of the central invoicing base - this will happen and this is happening - and at this point also other instruments that seal this system not only in the B2B relationship, the entrepreneur - the entrepreneur, but also in the business-to-consumer relationship - the consumer are also a priority. Here we are talking about an on-line fiscal cash register project currently under investigation in Parliament. If we ask if we are looking at companies of the Treasury... Yeah, they pay higher income tax because they make higher income. Why are they making more money? For example, Orlen uses a VAT seal, a fuel seal. This translates directly into the profits of this company and it has a higher income, has a higher tax, but also has more money to invest in the Polish economy, in new technologies and in the expansion of its Petrochemical potential. This is the hidden cost of the VAT gap. It's not just about losing money to the budget. These are lost for many years the investment opportunities of the Treasury companies, which unfortunately had to bear the cost of the grey and black zone, for example in fuels. Question about ordination. Indeed, the preparation of the new Tax Order was initiated during the previous term of office. Work was going on. We are satisfied with the version of the Tax Order prepared by the codification committee, but after some analysis, after some re-evaluation of some priorities, we considered it necessary to indicate a codification committee for certain directions of changes within this project. In some areas these were important changes, e.g. propose a taxpayer's rights spokesperson. Today, the internal consultation is already improved according to our guidelines by the draft of the new Tax Order. This internal consultation is ending and will soon be subject to external consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to Mr Sachajka's question about the share of agricultural expenditure in the light of farmers' protests, droughts, the ASF, I would like to remind you that we are talking about the 2017 budget, and most Members seem to have forgotten a little bit about it. I wanted to say that in 2017 we implemented the best budget for agriculture in the history of the Republic of Poland, the best, because the most resources available to the Ministry of Agriculture went directly to farmers. Sometimes we confuse concepts, thinking that the budget in the heading: agriculture is a budget for farmers, to support agriculture. Indirectly so, because every inspection, every office, every institution, every task that is carried out, even by research institutes, works for agriculture, but in fact we often confuse it with the concept of agriculture, it is about direct support, money that goes directly to the farmer. It is the farmers who really care the most, and that is what they need most today. These additional support measures are also important for the future, but especially today, when disasters occur, like this year's drought, last year we had to deal with storms and spring frosts, these cataclysms in recent years can be a lot. I'm just going to compare these figures against the year 2015, the last year of your governments, opposition. 4.5 times more for crop insurance, 4.5 times, from 200 to 900 million. 900 million for agricultural fuel, another 900 million paid directly to farmers, because it also goes to farmers because this money supports farmers and reduces farmers' contributions. Significant means, higher than before, for seed. In the end of the year, four hundred and several dozen million to pay for the losses caused by spring frosts and August storms. Never in Poland's history was there aid at the level of 1 thousand. PLN per hectare of agricultural crops, 2 000. PLN per hectare of fruit crops and 10,000. PLN on destroyed economic building. There has never been such funds for farmers to support directly those who have suffered losses as a result of disasters that we have no impact on. As I recall the 2015 drought, you gave 450 PLN, year by year let's compare this difference and these measures. As regards Mr Suchon's question on salaries in KOWR and ARiMR, it was translated at committee meetings, but of course not everyone is on committee, so they do not need to know. Indeed, the difference is, but the structure of these units is completely different. KOWR ends at the level of the region, ARiMR employs the main part of the staff in the powiats, at the bottom. I understand that in powiats they should earn as much as in regions or in Warsaw, but it is not in business, nor in the national average in Warsaw and in my district high Mazowieckie it never equals, it never even approached, therefore there is this difference. That's one reason. [[Voice from the hall: Historical.]] The second reason is this: how much did you, beloved opposition, pay at the Agricultural Property Agency? What was the average there until 2015 inclusive? Over 10,000. [[Exactly.]] As I remember, that was the average we came down from, we went down to the ones you say, 7,000, 30%. [[Don't be sorry.]] But we also reduced the level of employment by 30% after the merger of these institutions, so the costs of these institutions have fallen. Is it much or little? There's a 4600 in the ARiMR, but over the last two and a half years, we've raised the salary in the ARiMR by a dozen percent, you guys for eight years, or by a dollar. The year after year was to block the increase in wages. At an institution that employs 11,000. employees, we can't make up for those eight years lost in a year or two, or even four years. That's what you have to do for years. [[Nobody listens to you, no one.]] I know the opposition doesn't exist because the opposition has said theirs, the opposition may have left. [[Shame.]] It's best if she's gone, but for now she is. As regards the increase in the cost of compensation for labour law, where is this read in this report? As regards the protection of soft fruit funds and the non-use of the RDP, the question is already in question this year. Soft fruit, we have a problem this year, we have a drought problem, it was also touched. As announced by the Prime Minister, as announced by the Minister of Finance, the funds for this purpose will be found as announced by the Minister of Agriculture. First, you just have to estimate the losses in all these crops, not just soft fruit, but the total amount of each crop. The estimate is in progress right now. I have already appealed yesterday, I will do it again, although there is no one to appeal to, I have appealed to Members of the opposition who are so concerned about this problem of farmers. If there are farmers here, those who have at least one ha of land, and that's when you're a farmer, you're a member of the farmhouse: Go in the field, estimate, help these committees, volunteer for the committee, you can do it on behalf of the farm room. This will be your real help for Polish agriculture, for Polish farmers. Because this estimate has to happen very quickly, these committees must be a lot. The hardest part is with the representatives of the agricultural chambers, because these are volunteers, people who are not professionally working in the institutions. The municipal authority has professional employees, ODR, the agency has professional employees, but agricultural chambers do not have professional employees. So, ladies and gentlemen, for your diets, for your wages, go in the field, estimate. It'll be real help. When it comes to the lack of control of African swine fever, it's one word: bastardity. Bastards, if someone has a disease, although animals, but innocent animals, try to fight politically. Look at what's going on in Romania, there's already dozens of cases, they didn't have ASF a year ago, they have dozens of cases at the moment. Look at what is happening in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, one at a time, Moldova. In Poland, given the scale of production and the period since the first outbreak, i.e. since 2014, the situation is the least dramatic. Word: the best is the worst you can use here. It's the least dramatic. In Poland, the fight against ASF is happening and continuing. But this is a disease that others have dealt with for decades, and they didn't have this disease, the virus in the environment, they only had disease in pigs. Poland - and this part of Europe - has a disease and an environment in wild boars, and in pigs, has forests that are unhindered, has wild animals that can spread the virus. And that's the main problem. But if anyone wants to hear more about this - tomorrow is to be a question of one of the opposition Members on this issue, I will answer, then there will be a place for it, because we should not talk about it in the budget. [[Very good.]] As regards Mrs Zuby's question on securing investment funds for producer groups. Where's the money? The answer is simple: A significant part of this money is in the pockets, supposedly people even associated with PSL and the Civic Platform. A lot of that money was stolen, taken out. Of course, the prosecution's proceedings are conducted, and I have no basis at this stage to accuse specific groups, specific individuals, although the institutions underneath have notified us to the prosecution - and many notifications - of committing a crime. But the side effect, or actually the loss of that money, except for their destiny not to build strong farmers' organisations, but to take them out, for example. by four people from one family plus a fifth chosen only to be a figurine, and to divide one farm into four, to bring out huge money, tens, hundreds of millions of zlotys... This is a scandal that happened in Poland. Poland has already been punished with PLN 2 billion. If we had added 2 billion zlotys to the billions we spend on agriculture, we would have been in a completely different place. [[Scandal.]] This is an outrage. This is something that happened under the law. I'm only talking about the ones who stole the law. But a law was created that created gaps where no one could even be accused of illegal activity, because he had the right to create a group of producers in the way that was written in the law, even though it did not make any sense, it did not bring any added value, even though the owner of the fruit and vegetables storeroom was selling to his own group founded with his own family this storage room for overpriced valuations and thus brought money out of the European and national budget. This was alleged by the European Commission, not by our governments, and already in 2012 the first accusations against Poland in this respect appeared. So this is a valid and fundamental question: Where is the money? The second side effect of this is that the European Commission has prohibited us from supporting investments in fruit and vegetable producer groups. We cannot support such groups right now. [[Consequence.]] That's the consequence. actions from the years 2012 to 2015. Then these billions were taken out, then measures were taken to create a law, whether intentionally or out of stupidity - that is the question I leave to you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u169	Thank you, Minister. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u170	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, There was one question to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage - a question about the implementation of the multi-annual government programme I would like to remind you that we have planned the implementation of the multiannual government programme, which is independent for the years 2017 and 2021. For obvious reasons, we believe that it is necessary to celebrate, remind, talk not only about the struggle for independence, about the moment of regaining independence, but also about a few more years which meant perpetuating this independence or its defence until 1921, because we want to celebrate the three Silesian uprisings, the Greater Poland Uprising, Poland's marriage to the sea, which took place only in 1920, or the end of the war with the Bolsheviks, which ended in 1921 and then the eastern border of Poland was established. That's why it's extended for five years. The government's representative for the implementation of the multiannual government programme is also appointed. It's a good thing I came from the department today with an answer to these questions, because I'm the government's proxy for this program. In particular, I will answer what has been done and what amounts in 2017 can be said, this run-up year, in terms of the implementation of this programme, because the programme itself was adopted in May 2017, so we had the opportunity to implement various plans actually in the second half of the year. It is from the budget, which for this entire programme was allocated in the amount of over 220 million PLN, that in 2017 we implemented projects for the amount of less than 32 million PLN. This programme is broken down into three priorities: nationwide, regional and local and foreign, international. As far as these priorities are concerned, last year we implemented 21 projects programmed primarily by institutions under the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, but there was also one project designed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Very well, you can say, this regional and local priority has begun to be implemented. We really wanted to... Poles themselves indicate that they want to celebrate national holidays, especially this most important holiday, the Independence Day, not only observed on TV, these central events were observed by Poles on TV, but also want to have some events planned by local authorities or local NGOs near their own place of residence. We cared a lot about that, too. And here I must say that we are surprised at the number of beautiful initiatives that have just appeared at local and regional level. A special programme dedicated to this local and regional event has been announced. We expected maybe 200 applications and received more than 600 applications in 2017. I will immediately point out that in this key year, 2018, we had 2.5 thousand. conclusions from local or regional level, which means the most burdened, one can say, an operational programme in the history of the Ministry of Culture, of which we are of course very happy, because that was the case. It was about this participation, the citizenship of these celebrations at local and regional level. And it worked. Of these 600 proposals in 2017, we were able to finance 63 projects planned by local authorities, 94 projects planned by NGOs and 25 projects submitted by voivodships. In addition, in the foreign priority we organized 31 cultural projects abroad dedicated to Polish culture, dedicated stories about Polish history, in different countries - from Chicago to Tokyo, in countries that are of course crucial for us in terms of cultural cooperation and common... about the need to tell about Polish history. For example, when it comes to these most important central events, I will give you a number of projects already completed in 2017, such as: two magnificent exhibitions at the National Museum in Krakow. In June Ub. The exhibition "Legacy" was opened there. It lasted until January this year. It was a little bit of a dialogue with the loud exhibition by Marek Rostworowski, a 1979 self portrait of Poles, as if a reference to that exhibition, when through various artifacts related to art we wondered about the Polish national identity, about the Polish cultural heritage. And it was a slightly similarly composed exhibition, composed of 800 objects, stimulating reflection on Polish geography, on Polish language, on Polish tradition of citizenship, on Polish custom, on Polish material culture. It's a great exhibition, where there was a very good turnout. And the second exhibition, which we opened in November, also last year, and which lasts all the time - I highly recommend it, will continue until January 2019, which is for a long time more than a year - this is the exhibition devoted to Stanisław Wyspiański, a character who, you can say, has spiritually prepared independence, although the outstanding artist himself of this independence regained in 1918 did not live to see it. We showed Wyspianski. There wasn't such a big exhibition dedicated to him yet. There are more than 500 works - and these are not only works that we most often associate with Wyspiański, i.e. paintings, drawings, graphics, but even artistic crafts, design, because it turned out that not everyone knows that Wyspiański was also an outstanding designer of applied art: furniture, chandeliers, balustrades, etc., etc. Of course, dramawriting, scenography, poetry - it's all at this exhibition. I think it is particularly attractive that one to one monumental designs of stained glass were shown there - some were realized, some remained in the design phase. It's all you can see. We are also particularly proud of such a project carried out by the Documentary and Fabulous Film Works, also last year, from the 2017 budget, namely the independent Poland - history in lively paintings. We chose 10 paintings, very famous for reproduction, from museums - Poles very often just associate these paintings, paintings by Jan Matejko, Wojciech Kossak, Maximilian Gierymski, Artur Grottger, Jack Malczewski and others - and we just revived them. There's a normal 15-minute movie where there's a dramatic action, there's actors. This is a 15-minute feature film that ends with a stop frame. And this stopwatch is the image. After this 15-minute film, we know everything: who is who in this picture, why this picture looks like this, what is this action about which this picture represents, etc., etc. These films will be delivered to all secondary schools in Poland, to about 10 thousand. schools, as educational aid for schools, also with additional scripts, various supporting materials, so that history teachers have excellent complementary material or an attractive story about Polish history. It is known that we live in times of image culture. Especially young people like to watch such things, and then they feel completely different about the historical narrative if they receive such an offer. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few examples of what has been accomplished. I repeat, several hundred local projects, 21 central projects and 31 foreign projects in 2017, the running year. Of course, next year, when I talk about 2018, about what we're doing as part of a multi-annual government program, I think I'm gonna ask the marshal not to give me 15 minutes, only 25 minutes or 45 minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite the Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several questions have been raised in this debate, which is addressed by the President of the Council of Ministers. I'd like to start with the most serious. As regards the issue of the Polish Space Agency, Mr Urbaniak's statement that the money she spent within 11 months of the Polish Space Agency has been stolen is absolutely unlawful. This money was spent on the day-to-day activities of the space agency: investment, substance. I admit there was a dispute between the Supreme Audit Chamber and the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Based on specific legal opinions, we have applied some legal solutions that the Supreme Audit Chamber has questioned. Here I would like to stress that, with regard to the second issue that has been raised here in this Chamber, i.e. the issue of the awarding of orders by the firm, we have come to a kind of consensus, i.e. The Supreme Audit Chamber has accepted some of our explanations, and we have accepted the proposals that we will pursue with regard to the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In the case of the Polish Comic Agency, the Supreme Audit Chamber was irreconcilable, challenged the solution we adopted. I stress, we have acted in good faith, we have acted out of the need to ensure the proper functioning of this institution and we have adopted these solutions, which have been indicated by the legal opinions. Mr Arndt asked about the general reserve. Dear Mr... Dear Mr... [[Minister...]] Well, those local investments that you're... Well, I might call it a slight disregard. These are very important issues for local communities, they are precisely those investments that were not foreseeable at the stage of budget planning. Each of these proposals is analysed in very detail and many of these proposals are rejected precisely because of the failure to comply with this criterion, which I mentioned. I repeat, let us not depreciate these small, local investments, which need to be realised often during the financial year. And the last element of my speech, which I would like to complete, is the position presented by Minister Marian Banaś of the Ministry of Finance. I would like to stress that the issue of prizes is closed. These awards have been returned and this should close the case. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition... [[Which there isn't.]] ...please accept my explanations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! The House of Members of the Law and Justice! I am sorry to say this, but there is not one representative of the opposition in the part of the room where the opposition sits today during this debate that is so important and important.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u175	I'm still here, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: But I said, your marshal. I'm still here. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: That's why I greeted your marshal first. Absolutely full of respect. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been no situation in the history of Parliament that those who speak, speak, instruct, then do not participate in the debate, do not even want to hear the answers to the questions they have asked. Not even one opposition member is in the plenary room today. [[One.]] But yet, if your marshal will allow us, we will answer questions, especially those concerning the area of national defence. But before I do, a few words of history. Ladies and gentlemen! The most despised were those who probably had national defenses, mostly on their consciences. It's worth using facts, hard facts. It wasn't that long ago that we had a duty to spend 1,95% on national defense. gross domestic product. Today it's 2%. Soon it'll be up to 2.5%. , by 2030, in accordance with the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice. But today the most despised are those who, for eight years of their governments, have not even approached the level of 1.95 GDP. And in order not to be literal: 2008-1,55% GDP, 2009 and 1.71% GDP, 2010 - 1,79% GDP, 2011 - 1.75% GDP, 2012 - 1,76% GDP, 2013 - 1.72% Gross domestic product, 2014 - 1,82% GDP, 2015 - 1,79% gross domestic product. It should be noted that this year the so-called massive expenditure has reached the so-called. The last tranche for the acquisition of F-16 aircraft for the Armed Forces. During the 8 years of their reign, the Civic Platform together with the Polish People's Party did not approach level 1.95. The Polish army, Polish troops, security of Poland and Poles lost billions on these activities. Not two, not four, but several billion zlotys irretrievably lost, which should serve to improve the safety of Poland and Poles. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna give you a few explanations about the charges. First: purchase of aircraft for the carriage of the most important persons in the country. Yes, the Government of Law and Justice has decided with determination that it buys airplanes for the most important people in the country. Others have spoken for decades, and we, as the government of law and justice, have done so. Others, through their omissions, led to the greatest tragedy that happened to us after 1945. Today we buy airplanes to transport the most important people in the country, whether they like it or not. And I do not agree with the Supreme Audit Chamber's opinion that expenditure on the purchase of VIP aircraft cannot be included in defence expenses. [[Number one.]] Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the planes that will be purchased will serve at the tactical air base. Secondly, they will be operated by soldiers, will be equipped with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, have or will have installed devices that will serve e.g. any issues relating to the management of the situation in the country, crisis management, etc. These are aircraft that will be in the service of the military and will at the same time be used to transport the most important people in the country. And today, the Supreme Board of Control says it's not true that it shouldn't be like this. [[He's pointing.]] Mr. President Kwiatkowski! I ask you, on what basis since 2010 the documents presented from the implementation of subsequent budgets have not even once been included in the statement that the defensive expenses of the Republic of Poland are included in those incurred for chartering from our national carrier, from LOT, civil aircraft operated by civilian crews. Since 2010, we have been chartering embraeras that carry the most important people in the country. These are civilian aircraft operated by civilian crews. Over the past years, the Supreme Audit Chamber It did not even once indicate that it is a problem that these funds are included in the defence expenses of the Republic of Poland. Isn't it that today the Supreme Chamber of Control enters into strict activity with its report A political order for a specific political order? Don't you feel that way? [[I ordered it.]] The opposition has revived. Welcome. Bravo, the first representative of the opposition here today will listen to our answers. Ladies and gentlemen! Another response which I address to my colleagues from the Civic Platform, who also show great concern for the Armed Forces, about the decisions that are taken today by the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, and thus also introduce a whole lot of false information into the public circulation, into the media circulation. I would like to assure you once again that the Government of Law and Justice is not giving up any of the Armed Forces modernisation programmes. I would like to assure you once again that the purchase of helicopters for the Armed Forces is an important investment in the security of the Republic, but today we also carry out careful analyses which ships, which helicopters, for which types of Armed Forces must be purchased first, because our decisions must be supported by analyses and dictated first by the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it is regrettable to hear these defilements thrown at the Ministry of National Defence or the Minister of National Defence regarding activities in this very specific area. [[Tirade.]] This must sound here, in this Chamber: 2017 ended with the spending of 2.01% gross domestic product. We are implementing the laws and we are determined to spend these funds reliably, actually. We want to safeguard the most important needs of the Armed Forces, but also increase the security of Poland and Poles. 2.01% gross domestic product this is the result that we managed to achieve in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, correction mode.]] Here you are, Mr Remembrance. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to assure Minister Skurkiewicz that the opposition listens to these answers and is often dissatisfied with them. But I'm skipping it. On the other hand, my corrigendum concerns the Prime Minister's statements from the Prime Minister's chambers. I clearly said that local investment is most often very necessary, only that it should not be financed from the general budget reserve. The financing in this way of local investment is completely outside the control of the Sejm. This isn't right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Bartosz Marczuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions were addressed to the family ministry. One concerned the health of the labour market. The honourable Member was kind to say that she has definitely deteriorated or deteriorated after the introduction of our social policy. Well, I wanted to explain that the situation on the labour market in Poland Anna Domini 2018 is the best after 1989. A few numbers. The unemployment rate measured by Eurostat is 3.8% and is the fourth unemployment rate across the European Union, i.e. among the 28 countries of the European Union. We're one place for the podium. I hope we'll be on that podium soon. As far as registered unemployment is concerned, it reached 6.1% at the end of May. and is the lowest unemployment since 1990. Of course, 1990 is not fully representative, because this system was created only then. So unemployment is the lowest in almost 30 years. As far as the number of employees is concerned, because this is also important data, we also have record numbers here. Currently, i.e. in the first quarter of 2018, according to the survey of economic activity of the population, 16 350 thousand work. persons. 2 years ago, i.e. in the first quarter of 2016, because the complaint concerned this term of office, there were 16 million employees, i.e. more than 300,000 people were created. new jobs. In the wake of this, of course, wages are also rising. The nominal wage increase is now around 7%. And the employment rate. It's an indicator that tells us how many people work in relation to the number of people in the entire population. In the first quarter of 2016, it was 52%. At present, this employment rate is 53.7% - that's BAEL data - that's almost 2 percentage points higher, so there's more professional activity. And the latest data on the labour market. At the end of May 2018, we had just over 1 million people registered as unemployed in employment offices. Given the dynamics and the situation on the labour market, we can expect that at the moment, in June, this figure fell below 1 million, which is, of course, in the history of our unemployment after 1989, an unprecedented situation. So that the situation on the labour market is very good. Mr Cymanski asked about the expenditure on family policy, how this is currently taking place. Here's a little bit. As regards expenditure in 2017 on family policy from the central budget, i.e. expenditure for which the government is directly responsible, our estimates, i.e. the ministries of the family, say that this is 3.11% GDP. If we compare this with spending in 2015, when we were not responsible for family policy, it turns out that there is a 75% increase compared to what was in 2015. In 2015, we spent 1.78% on family policy from the central budget GDP. So it was 1.78%. At the moment, it's 3.11%. Like I said, and I'm going to say it again, an increase of 75%. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u179	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Tomasz Robaczyński. Excuse me. You're welcome in that order. Minister, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Wójcik. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u180	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! I have come to answer the question that Mrs Hennig-Kloska has put here in a few sentences. I came here, putting aside all the other things, because there were very strong words coming out of this speaker saying political corruption. I regret that there really is no, your marshal, the opposition in the Chamber - this is an unprecedented issue - also those asking from the opposition. The essence of this problem is whether money could have been transferred from the Justice Fund to the Central Anti-corruption Office. This is about the amount of PLN 25 million. It would seem that I had already explained this at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. I don't think the Secretary of State took the word for it. Therefore, today I will use opinions in addition to supporting the position of Minister of Justice in this matter. The first opinion was issued by the Institute of Tax Studies in Warsaw - I promised during the committee meeting that I would support opinions - and is signed by Prof. Dr. Hab. Witold Modzelewski. I'm not gonna read the whole opinion, she's 14-page, just a conclusion. In the opinion of the Institute, the interpretation of the rules on the rules governing the functioning of the Justice Fund and the CBA leads to the conclusion that the transfer of funds to the Fund for that service finds its legal basis in Article. 43 § Point 8 (1) (c) of the implementing criminal code and Article. 43 § Point 8 (4) of the Implementing Penal Code. And the second opinion, in turn, a 12-page, signed by Professor Dr. Hab. Elżbieta Chojna-Ghost, who in the conclusions put forward this thesis: the procedure for dealing with the authorising officer of the Justice Fund, with the request of the Head of the CBA to grant funds from the Justice Fund for statutory tasks, can be considered to be correct and consistent with the rules generally applicable and logical and correct from the point of view of the principles of economy, purpose and savings in public spending. These are opinions signed by people who are recognized in the world of doctrine, also among practitioners. These people have signed up for opinions that clearly show that the Supreme Audit Chamber and all those who attack the Minister of Justice are absolutely wrong. There's no doubt about it. I will repeat what I said at the meeting of the two committees mentioned earlier. The transfer of funds shall be based on Article. 43 Executive Penal Code. It is a special provision. There's lex specialis against art. 4th Central Corruption Bureau Act. It is the basis for the resources to be transferred from the Justice Fund to the Central Anti-corruption Office, because the objectives of both this service, this institution and the objectives of the Justice Fund are simply consistent. It's about protecting citizens. If today we are being charged with the fact that 25 million have been transferred to protect citizens, to detect such acts as are harmful to the state and to the citizens, then this is an unbelievable thing. But of course we also have this argument of a purely legal nature. If there is a question during the debate, during the vote, it will also be a purely political argument. Lex posterior derogat legi priori - this operative part is good in this case, if we are talking about art. 43 The Penal Code implementing and amending this Code, amending this provision. This is an absolute basis. It is extremely malicious to attack the Minister of Justice because the funds have been transferred to protect society, to protect citizens, and against those who commit crimes, and already particularly unauthorised are the words that came out of this speaker today, talking about political corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Sorry about the mistake. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Tomasz Robaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u182	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer the rest of the questions that have been asked and which have not yet been answered. Maybe I'll start by asking more general questions about the strict budget and these general budget sizes. With regard to the deficit of the state budget, the question has been raised as to how this deficit last year is related to the deficits that have been, which have occurred in recent years. I will remind you that this deficit in 2017 amounted to PLN 25.4 billion, which means that in relation to GDP it was 1.3%. This is the lowest value in the last 10 years. As far as absolute values are concerned, the deficit was roughly between PLN 23.8 billion in 2009 and PLN 46.2 billion in 2016, of course these absolute figures do not really reflect the budgetary position, because of course everything depends on gross domestic product. Therefore, in relative terms, if this were to be measured, the highest deficit was recorded in 2010, when it was 3,1%. gross domestic product. Like I said, last year it was the lowest and it was 1.3%. GDP. When it comes to questions about public debt, questions have been raised as to how we owe ourselves to other countries of the European Union. This debt is relatively low. At the end of 2017, it was exactly 50.6% GDP. This is the tenth lowest result in the European Union as a whole. On the other hand, Eurostat data show that for the European Union as a whole this debt amounted to 81.6% GDP, and for the euro area it was even more, because 86.7%. There was also a question about handling the Treasury's debt as to GDP. The ratio of Treasury debt handling to GDP in 2017 was 1.5%. It was the lowest level since the early 1990s. In 2016, compared, it was 1,7% , and up to and including 2014 the cost of handling debt exceeded 2% GDP. The question was asked by Mr Święcicki to enter the euro area. Of course, this requires a further increase in economic convergence with the euro area. We are, of course, monitoring the level of convergence on an ongoing basis, but we do not have any particular changes in this regard in recent years. This certainly requires a number of structural reforms that are being implemented within the framework of a responsible development strategy, but now entry into the euro area would certainly be a source of disturbance in the economy. Account must also be taken of the fact that institutional reforms in the euro area itself are still unclear, which is also a prerequisite for thinking about entering the euro area. The question was when the state budget would be balanced. Of course, on the one hand, budget sustainability is a little mythical, because depending on what's underneath it... I mean, you could imagine a budget, a construction of a public finance sector that would strike a balance between the state budget itself, but that's not really the point, because this debt, which would be generated in financial sector units operating outside the state budget, would have been created anyway. Therefore, a better link or a more appropriate criterion is the public finance sector deficit. This deficit was set at 1.7% at the end of 2017. He is constantly being gradually reduced, and according to the plan set out for us by the European Commission, we should reduce this deficit to 1%. GDP, which is happening gradually. Of course, a balanced budget is the dream of every finance minister, but not at all costs. I mean, you have to carry out those tasks that are put before the government and before you, but it is important that you can handle the debt that comes from the sector deficit. Actually, that's the most important thing. It would certainly be advisable to balance the budget itself, but this certainly requires a stable economic situation over a long period of time. So much for these very general issues... Maybe I will raise one more question about the investment, because many questions oscillated around the low value of the investment in 2017. These investments have started. In fact, in the last quarter of 2017 and in the first quarter of 2018, it is investment outside the GG sector, i.e. private investment. Their scale was more real and nominal than a year ago. We see, of course, whether we see the problem of a relatively low rate of private investment in the Polish economy, but this is a structural problem that has been present for many years and does not apply to all sectors, i.e.. For example, the industrial-to-GDP ratio is relatively high in comparison with other European Union countries. In 2016, gross fixed capital expenditure in this sector accounted for 5.9% GDP, which put Poland in seventh place. That, of course, will require... There is an acceleration in the spending of EU funds, and it is not that these funds are spent very slowly. I also translated it on the committee, there was such a discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. This is simply due to the momentum or the overlap of two perspectives. All the measures that were taken in 2014 and until 2016 were actually aimed at full implementation or full use of the previous financial perspective, and therefore the implementation of this new perspective for 2014 and 2020 was necessarily delayed. Moreover, we saw a similar situation at the beginning of the 20072013 perspective, when the 2004-2006 perspective was ending. So it's not very surprising. Of course, we would like this expenditure to be at a higher level, but we can already see that EU expenditure is rising and certainly by 2023, which is until the year to which we have to spend funds from this perspective, will certainly be used in full, just as it has happened with regard to the 20072013 perspective. On a few more specific questions, I would like to say that some questions have been asked about the expenditures that were earmarked for modernisation programmes in 2017, including the Prison Service and the modernisation of the Police, the Border Guard and the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office, now the State Security Service. As regards the modernisation programme of the Prison Service, over PLN 197 million was spent on the implementation of this programme in 2017, which represents 98.3%. The plan. This amount was spent primarily on the purchase of equipment and equipment, construction-modernization investments, changes in the system of employment of medical personnel and strengthening the incentive system of officials' salaries. As regards the programme of modernisation of services, Police, Border Guard, Fire and SOP, in 2017, it was done together with expenditure which did not expire at PLN 1.4 billion, which represents 99.7% the plan, of which PLN 878 million were allocated to the Police, to the State Fire Department - PLN 300 million, to the Border Guard - PLN 182 million and to the Office for Government Protection, i.e. the State Protection Service - PLN 26 million. As regards the question of Mr Chmielowiec regarding measures for seniors regarding the availability of medicines, in 2017, funds of more than PLN 405 million were spent on this purpose than in 2016, i.e. a total of PLN 489 million. In 2016 it was PLN 84 million. In 2017, the refund was granted to 5851 000. persons, i.e. 3456,000. more people than in 2016. There was also a question about aid to the repatriates whether in 2017 there was an increase in expenditure to finance this aid. This was the amount compared to 2016 by 7.3 million more. Compared to 2016, this is about 59%. Funds were also spent, such a question was asked, for development aid or aid related to the crisis in the Middle East. The Polish development cooperation programme and support for international cooperation for democracy and civil society were implemented. The reserve, which was intended for this purpose in 2017, was allocated in full, i.e. PLN 117 million. In addition, a contribution of PLN 306 million to the European Development Fund was financed and more than PLN 106 million was paid to the EU Aid Facility for refugees in Turkey. Payments were also made to the European Investment Bank's programme of economic strengthening of PLN 220 million and PLN 30 million for the European Union Regional Trust Fund to stabilise and counter illegal population emigration in Africa. When it comes to financing over-executions, this has already been mentioned in the report. I'm just gonna remind you, because that's the question, that's what I'm gonna say. financing of over-performance of the benefits guaranteed from previous years, over PLN 995 million was spent, including the amount of PLN 50 million spent on high-specialised services. The last two questions. As far as the Polish Investment and Trade Agency is concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was from the state budget that funds were spent on this agency of PLN 159.7 million. On the other hand, on the last of the questions I would like to answer, on the issue of the compensatory part of the general subsidy for local authorities, in 2017 expenditure on this purpose amounted to almost PLN 10 billion and was higher than the corresponding expenditure incurred in 2016 by 7.5%. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope we answered most of the questions. Of course, those questions which were addressed to the government asking the answer to be given in writing will be answered. For my part, and also on behalf of the Minister of Finance, I would like to thank you very much for the debate on the budget and for working in the Committee on Public Finance. I kindly ask the High House for discharge to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, please, by correcting Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to refer here to the words of Minister Wójcik, who was sorely throated in the speaker, saying that I am not here for the sixth hour of debate. He came in for five minutes, fell out, I don't even have a chance to pass a correction. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already explained to the Minister. Just because you changed your law in 2017 and this transfer was possible under the changed law, doesn't mean it didn't give rise to a conflict of interest. If an establishment, an entity that should be subject to control, transfers money directly to an entity that is tasked with controlling it, it is always a conflict of interest. The NIK report on this case is ruthless. What happened was that you transferred $25 million from the Justice Fund to the CBA. After the inspection of the NIK, it turned out that you are announcing that 100 million of this fund will be earmarked for firefighters. Well, the goal is good, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But completely unreasonable when it comes to the execution of this fund. As regards the assistance of victims of crime, only 16 million zlotys were spent on this purpose, which contributed to the fund in 2016 - for example.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u185	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u186	So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the real purpose of the operation if money goes in a different way, for a different purpose. Even if you put any document under it...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u187	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u188	...that doesn't mean it's right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u189	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak? Please, Mr Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the Committee on Public Finances considered individual parts of the 2017 budget for a few full days, from a few to a dozen hours a day, with representatives of these parts, ministers, and representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber; the director was most often, for which I thank you very much. This debate was substantive, often critical, but conducted in good style. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of all the groups for their active work, for the great work we have put into this over the last few days. I think that during this debate we could learn a lot and we could understand each other better, but today's debate unfortunately triggered such unhealthy emotions and had a slightly different character. But I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the committee, the representatives of these departments, who were the directors. I would like to thank the representative of the Supreme Auditorium once again. I would like to say that on 21 June the committee voted: on the negative opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development with regard to the financial plan of the Polish Space Agency, on the opinion of the separate Members regarding the implementation of the plan of the Central Vehicle and Driver Records Fund, and on the two parliamentary proposals - one is the request made by the President of Mr Janusz Cichoń not to take a report on the implementation of the budget and not to grant discharge to the Council of Ministers, the other is the request by Mrs Izabela Leszczyna to draw attention to the irregularities in implementation of the state budget in Part 19: Budget, public finances and financial institutions. As a result of the vote, the committee by a large majority rejected all the above-mentioned proposals and adopted a draft resolution drawn up at the Bureau meeting. This is how it was democratically done. Thank you very much again for your hard work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u191	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that an amendment has been tabled to the proposed resolution, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for its consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm accept information about guarantees and guarantees granted in 2017 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. If I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the motion of the committee. I can't hear you objecting. I state that the Sejm took note of the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2017. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 2700. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: "Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones." As of 31 December 2017 (Print No 2591) together with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development (Print No 2633). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u192	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones is a document prepared annually in connection with the provision contained in the said Act, which obliges the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm with information on the implementation of this Act together with a report on the implementation of the budget. The information shall include data on the functioning of special economic zones as at 31 December 2017 and shall cover issues such as the location and level of management of each of the 14 zones; the effects of the zones, including the number of permits granted, the jobs created, the value and the industrial structure of the investments carried out and the country of origin of the capital; the activities of the zones management companies. In 2017, the boundaries of nine special economic zones changed. The total area of the zones has increased by more than 1.2 thousand. ha and currently stands at 22.7 thousand. ha. The average level of zoning was around 60%. - from 25.6% in the Legnica zone up to 76.8% in the Tarnobrzeg zone. As of 31 December 2017, entrepreneurs had 2349 valid business permits in special economic zones. The most active permits are in the Katowice zone - 329 and the least in the Kamienna Góra zone - 60. In 2017, 346 permits were issued, i.e. 34 more than in 2016. The accumulated value of invested capital since the beginning of the zones amounted to nearly PLN 106.6 billion. It's a drop of almost 5.7 billion, i.e. 5% compared to the end of the previous year. The decrease was the result of the expiry of 202 authorisations issued in 10 zones. In 2017, the largest share in the cumulative value of the investment was: Wałbrzyska - 21.38%, Katowice - 15.58% And the boat - 12.5%. Total employment in all zones as at 31 December 2017 amounted to over 353 thousand. persons. That's $21,000. persons, i.e. 6.3%, more than the previous year. The structure of the investment by country of origin of the capital is as follows: Polish companies - almost 21.5% , foreign companies - more than 78.5% , of which Germany - 18.8% , Netherlands - 8,2%, United States - 8,1%. The industry structure has not changed compared to the previous year. The largest share in the cumulative value of the investment was by companies from the automotive industry - 24% Volkswagen Motor Poland, Volkswagen Poznan in Września, BASF Poland, Toyota, Opel Manufacturing Poland, Brembo Poland; rubber and plastic products - 9,9% , including the largest investors in this industry are Michelin Poland, Kronospan HPL, Dębica; metal products - 7,7% Bison Chucks, Porta KMI Poland, KAN, Servist, Bilfinger Mars Offshore, Ball Packaging Europe Lublin. According to data provided by the Ministry of Finance, the total amount of public aid granted to enterprises operating in zones by the end of 2016 amounted to PLN 22.5 billion. This amount represents 20% of the investment made by entrepreneurs by the end of 2016. The total value of investments incurred by investors in special economic zones amounted to PLN 112.2 billion. Investments of companies managing zones in infrastructure amounted to PLN 42.2 million, which represents 15.9% total expenditure on infrastructure incurred in 2017. This amount was lower by 74,6 million than in the previous year. For the promotion of zones in 2017, management companies allocated over PLN 7.07 million, i.e. by PLN 1.4 million more than in 2016. As at 31 December 2017, none of the management companies recorded a negative financial result. The highest financial result achieved: Kostrzyn-Słubicka Special Economic Zone SA - 22,98 Mioł zł, Agencja Rozwoju Przemysłu SA Branch in Tarnobrzeg - 18.2 mln PLN, Katowice Special Economic Zone SA - 17.63 million PLN. The total amount of tax exemption of companies managing zones from the beginning of the zones until the end of 2017 amounted to almost PLN 260 million. In 2017, the total amount of the tax exemption amounted to PLN 17.6 million and was lower by PLN 0.7 million compared to the previous year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u193	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the government document: As of 31 December 2017, print No 2591. This information was forwarded by the Marshal of the Sejm on 5 June to the committee for consideration. This took place at the meeting on 13 June. During the examination of the information, the document presented was discussed inter alia. information such as the fact that 2017 was characterised by different dynamics of variables describing the effects of special zones compared to 2016. The dynamics of investments and new jobs were negative, and the reason was the expiry of 202 permits for activities in the Kamienna Góra, Kostrzyn-Słubicka, Legnica, Łódź, Pomorskie, Pomeranian, Starachowice, Tarnobrzeg, Wałbrzych and Warmia-Mazurski zones. As a consequence, reporting of entrepreneurs with valid permits at the end of 2017 did not include more than PLN 30 billion of investment expenditure and almost 35 000. new jobs, although they continue to operate in zones and employ workers. The number of new authorisations issued in 2017 was higher by more than 34% compared to 2016. Employment dynamics remained close to 2016. It should be assumed that changes may occur when reporting for the years 2018 and 2019. This will result in solutions recently adopted by the Sejm, which change the model of functioning of special economic zones in Poland. These changes are intended to facilitate the acquisition of investors in areas previously not covered by special economic zones. High Izbo! After considering the information, the committee shall request the acceptance of the information from print No 2591. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Zubowski is the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u196	Thank you again. Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, Position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the adoption of information on the functioning of special economic zones in 2017. Let me just remind you of some information that was also presented by the Minister. In 2017, the total area of zones increased by 1198 ha, i.e. to a level of over 22 660 ha. The average level of development was around 60%. At the end of 2017, entrepreneurs had 2349 valid business permits. The accumulated value of the invested capital amounted to nearly PLN 106 billion, which means a decrease of almost PLN 5.7 billion, 5% compared to the previous year. As I mentioned earlier, this decrease was linked to the expiry of 202 authorisations due to the expiry of their validity. Once again, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that information be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u197	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on prints 2591 and 2633. With regard to the report presented on the activities of special economic zones in 2017, it is important to emphasise at the outset, and I would like to do so, a great deal of concern about the decline in the efficiency of economic zones in 2017, because it is already the second year in a row, ladies and gentlemen. The accumulated value of the capital invested was 106.6 billion and was 5% lower than the previous year. And given that there was a decrease in 2016 compared to 2015 and there was an investment collapse, I would like to express my concern about this fact. The second important indicator in assessing the performance of zones is jobs. The investors employed 353 thousand at the end of the year. employees. This is a result comparable to the 2016 result. But once again, given the fact that the employment growth rate of 2016 by 2015 was lower, this is also worrying. As far as capital is concerned, the order has changed a bit about six countries. Poland was ahead of Germany, the Netherlands, the USA, Luxembourg and Italy. This is comparable to previous years and did not differ significantly, as I said before, in relation to previous years. As far as the industry is concerned, the automotive industry is almost 24%, followed by the sectors: rubber and plastics products and metal products. That hasn't changed much since the years before. I'm going to evaluate 14 zone companies. The biggest share of investments in 2017 was the Wałbrzych, Katowice and Łódź zones, and the lowest were the pole and starachowice zones. But there was a decrease in the cumulative value of investments in eight zone companies, which is most of them. I see no justification for this inheritance. Let me remind you that we are operating at a time when there is an economic situation in the world, in Europe and in Poland, and you are bragging about it. The number of new jobs at the end of 2017 decreased by 5.5% compared to 2016 Which gives you a $12.5,000 drop. new jobs. You explain this country's expiry in 10 zones 202 permits. But why haven't new permits been issued in due course? What does that say? A positive example of job creation is the Suwałska area, where the number of new jobs has increased by more than 55%, the next places are the Mielec and Katowice zones. But this is the only positive condition in assessing the efficiency of economic zones in 2017 and too small to be able to assess the activity of economic zones in 2017, during economic times, positively. I am convinced that the 2016 investment collapse and the total exchange of management staff in zones have led to a permanent trend in reducing the efficiency of zones in Poland. Minister! I have some bad news for you. Propaganda in the economy really has little effect. Spells, visions, and even more so, lies won't help. Sooner or later, everything will be clear. For these reasons, the Civic Platform Club will not vote in favour of the report and I am asking your Marshal to reject the report in its entirety. Finally, I just wanted to present two indicators from your materials. [[Member shows the data on the tablet]] Here you go: the value of investments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, see for yourself, and the number of new jobs. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u199	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was honoured on behalf of the Kukiz club15 to comment on your report. One thing I am wondering is that so far all the speakers, from the Minister to the Member, have focused on secondary and tertiary matters. Because the fact that there is a decrease in quotas or places, please, is no longer the essence of special economic zones for today - just to remind you that the law was created in 1994. In fact, on page 46 of the report, the most important thing in this report, which should be further developed, Minister. This is the theme cloud, the discussion - today, after so many years - about special economic zones. This is the point: Management of HR zones for industry and cluster development. This is the topic and this is the challenge for the 21st century, Minister, how to wisely rebuild vocational education based on the existing corporate base of companies, which have committed their resources there, while linking it today with the current EU perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, today's EU perspective for many voivodships and local governments is problematic. Innovation, the slogan for policy-makers, and the issue so problematic. It should be in the economic zones that this should rumble, it should rumble - universities, innovation. I have carefully read this point - 46 page, and the report has 59 pages - and it turns out that some of these 14 zones mark actions, lead to an apparent type of participation in labour fairs, an invitation of the school. It's a sham, we're doing some things, and we're not really developing. But I've also seen top students who work with secondary schools, universities, start some research processes, create clusters, and really work on them. Minister, this is where you press. The pole game is over. Let's stop being so charmed that this is where all of a sudden they're gonna come up with jobs. The thing is, this is the back room. no longer to create assembly plants and gluing plants, but to take innovative actions, to create a workshop for middle-level workers based on those workshops, which we have effectively eliminated in 30 years, within vocational training, either in techniques or in professions. Here we have a lot of interesting activities - activities in the field of vocational education, courses, workshops, training and practice. I really encourage you to examine this in detail. And next year, Minister, I'll be very happy to be back on the stand again, but I'll expect this point to be 40 pages, and the posts will be just an addition. Because it is time for economic zones to require more, to face the challenges of the 21st century, not to live forever in 1994. As for the speeches made by my fellow Members, I still feel that they are in 1994 and have not learned any lessons from the fact that we are today a country of the European Union, that we have resources for innovation, research and development. We all agree in one way - that vocational and industrial education must be rebuilt, strengthened and developed. And this cannot be done today, except for what is such a rescue wheel, economic zones and there existing establishments, which are just such a kind of rescue wheel. It's just a gift of fate. It'll be a sin of omission if we don't use it. That's why I'm asking you to focus on this for the next year. And as part of the parliamentary committee of the government, which I chair, I will do my best to press this issue, really press it, and consistently try to mobilize the presidents of companies who make very good money, sometimes better than the Prime Minister and many ministers, and even the President, to do things that today are worthy of the challenges of the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present the opinion of the club Modern about the report on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2017, print No 2591. This report follows from the obligation imposed on the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm with information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones, together with a report on the implementation of the budget. The document contains both information on the functioning of special economic zones and covers statistical matters in relation to previous years. Indeed, in a large part this report is a summary of statistical data, but sometimes it is worth looking at this data. As far as zoning is concerned, we have at the moment, at the end of 2017, data that say 60% of the zoning, that 60% these zones are used. However, one information is concerned that there are very large variations, because the best zone, the tarnobrzeg zone, has 75% of the total. area, while Legnica - 25%. In fact, this imbalance is too big. It's a good thing there's no big difference. In 2017, 349 business permits were issued. That's a lot. This is more than 34% higher than in 2016, and it is enjoying that. This, of course, is also due to the fact that the use of part of the authorisations has been sort of terminated and that they have already expired. That's about 202 permits. And these defects are indeed noticeable. And the most important thing, namely, as far as investments are concerned, we have seen a decrease in their level across Poland. And this was the thing that raised the greatest concern, because we are talking about the boom we have in terms of the economy, we are talking about the excellent results of the Polish economy, but not only because it works together with the European one, and there really the results were very good, and yet it did not translate into a greater level of investment. So that the inheritance was indeed disturbing. As far as employment is concerned, here one statistics is very concerned. In general, the number of jobs has increased, while the number of jobs has decreased significantly by 5.5%. 12,500. jobs, the number of new places, i.e. those that suggest the development of zones or not. As far as the geographical structures of the invested capital are concerned, it is pleased that Poland is in the first place, i.e. that almost 22 billion Polish capital has been invested. I think it is also important to pay attention to the dynamics of investment expenditure, however, that it was negative, and it cannot be said that this was only due to the loss of 202 permits. This was due to many factors, I will not hide that in the assessment of investors and entrepreneurs the regulations that have been introduced recently, as well as those related to additional burdens not only for citizens, but also for companies operating on the Polish market, cause the number of investments to actually decrease. The question is whether the State as Ministry responds in due course to disturbing signals. The answer to some things is a new law on support for entrepreneurs who will start new jobs and invest. This is to work under the motto: the whole of Poland is a special economic zone. I don't know how it's going to be done, because the project is, but we'll see how it goes with practice. We are also aware that this report is not an evaluation of the ministry's operation, it is a presentation of the facts, but a few things that are repeated from previous years suggest that perhaps not everything that would support investment and zones has been properly used. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the club The modern one will refrain from the evaluation. This is not a negative assessment, but we believe that this is a signal that there is still some action to be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the presented information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. This document - it must be acknowledged - is quite extensive and accurate every year, and this is directly related to the article. 26 Act of 20 October 1994 on Special Economic Zones. The Act requires the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm with information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones together with a report on the implementation of the budget. And that's what's happening today. High Izbo! Special economic zones in Poland already have more than 20 years of history and have written down, it has to be said, well in the Polish economic landscape, and one could say that it is difficult to imagine the economies of certain regions without special economic zones. For the reporting year 2017, a number of the most important data already cited can be cited in this area. Well, in Poland there are 14 economic zones in the area of approx. 23 thousand. ha. Last year, either the area increased by nearly 1200 ha, and the largest area increase was recorded by the Kamienna Góra zone, as much as 50%. It's 44.7%. Entrepreneurs held a total of 2349 valid business permits and in 2017 there were additional 346 new business permits issued. It is also worth to present and realise that the total accumulated capital invested in special economic zones is quite significant, because it is close to PLN 107 billion, and it is unfortunately compared to 2016, as already mentioned here, less about PLN 5.7 billion. There are over 353 thousand employees in the zones. employees and this figure increased by 21 000 compared to 2016. The automotive sector - 24%, rubber products and plastics - 10% has been the dominant industry in the zones for many years. and metal products - 7,7%. Perhaps it is still worthwhile in this stream of numbers that we are quoting here, because this is probably what we need today in connection with this point, to draw attention to another issue. Well, more than PLN 286 million has been invested in the area of zones for the construction of infrastructure, but - it has to be repeated - let's be aware that of this amount, out of this sum, only 15.1% of this value are expenditures of management companies, the rest are expenditures of municipalities, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and media gestors. I provide this data to make clear the great effort that local authorities, local governments, put first into the uprising and then, of course, the development of special economic zones. As I said, there are 14 economic zones in Poland, although it would probably be good to conduct a comparative analysis between them, but I agree with those who say - and it is true - that the conditions for the functioning of the zones are not always congruent. High Seym! Zone management companies benefit from a tax exemption under the regulations of the Council of Ministers establishing individual zones according to which the exemption from corporate income tax applies to the zone management income in part spent during the tax year for the development of the zone, including the acquisition of real estate, modernisation and expansion of economic and technical infrastructure. I think, among other things. because of these exemptions, for this reason opinions on zones in Poland are different, although I believe that they have fulfilled their role and continue to fulfil their role. But what size are these? Maybe it's worth a few more data here. As regards the data that I have had since 1998 and which were included in this report, the total value of the tax exemption [[♪ The bell ♪]] that is more than PLN 22 billion in terms of corporate income, and in terms of personal income tax, that is PLN 832 million. That's the total layoffs, and that's what you need to be aware of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u205	I'm asking you to finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u206	...in assessing the functioning of the special economic zone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, why should economic zones operate in Poland today in the 21st century? First of all, to respond to the demand of Poles, and today the demand of Poles is not just creating jobs, but creating highly paid jobs. Poles want to earn what Germans, Danes, Dutch or Swedes earn. Poles no longer want Poland to compete with cheap labour. The basic question is: Where we have special incentives to create these new jobs, i.e. in economic zones, is this asset used to avoid competing with cheap labour? Unfortunately, reading the entire report on economic zones, I feel that not all zones respond to this basic need of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u210	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you mentioned the zones, you mentioned the industry that settled there. I have a question for you. Well, the Minister of Energy says that we are really going to bring more and more of this coal, we can produce so much it and so much it, as well as there is time for the entry of renewable energy sources. That is why I wanted to ask you: Is there an industry in these areas that will build elements or some of the elements in the renewable energy sector? If so, please indicate in which area. Minister, we have recently passed a law - it has entered into force - about economic zones. I ask you: When will the executive regulations appear? After all, these presidents must be based on specific documents, on specific regulations, and today they have no tools. How long can you wait for this? When are they gonna show up? And one last question. You mentioned the number of employees, etc., new jobs. I ask you, Minister, how much has appeared? [[♪ The bell ♪]] additional jobs in economic zone structures in the context of employees in companies that administer the zone? We are talking about those who are managed by the State Treasury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 20 years of operation of the zones. It would be good for the government to carry out such a report on the closure of what has been done so far, especially since the new law slightly transforms the functioning of these economic zones, such an analytical report which would sum up what has been happening so far, and from which conclusions would be drawn for the future. In the context of that year, 2017, or 2016 I would like to know what the joint work of special economic zones in the framework of promotion policy was like. If the potential of new investments was weakened, did the special economic zones in 2016 draw a conclusion from it and join with some promotional action plan within and outside the European Union, so that, as far as these investment zones in Poland are concerned, there would be more investment in the zones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is, was there a year in 20 years' history to make the amount of capital invested fall? It happened in 2017. The sum of invested capital fell by PLN 5700 million compared to 2016. You are pleased to announce triumphantly that Poland has returned to the first place among investors. But what is the reason why Volkswagen is not today treated as German capital but as Luxembourg capital? Poland was promoted to 1st place, despite the fact that the total amount of Polish capital invested fell by PLN 500 million. There's no reason to be satisfied here. This makes me very sad, because zones were always supposed to be the element that stimulates investments that drive investments that are running for investment. And here last year, unfortunately, a total disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two years ago, you announced that Poland would be milk flowing and there was nothing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the entry into force of new solutions a few days ago, the whole of Poland, i.e. all investment areas in our country, is a special economic zone in which investors can count on long-term tax reliefs. But is that enough to bring them in and hold them? An example at the beginning of the year shows that it is not only relief but also other circumstances that matter. I mean, the BMW company. He was to build an e-car charging station in Poland. Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki sought this. However, the company withdrew due to the Polish authorities' approach to renewable energy sources. I wanted to remind you of this because we should pay particular attention to green investments and, in particular, support their development in this area. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the government finally start supporting them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u217	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u218	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly PLN 106.6 billion has been invested in special economic zones since its establishment in 1994 until the end of 2017. It can be said that these zones have contributed significantly to the economic development of our country. But even more action is needed to encourage investors to spend more money in our country and to create new, well-paid jobs. As Hennig-Kloska said, low-paid jobs are no longer interested in Poles, we simply want to earn more. Suwałska Special Economic Zone operates in Podlaskie Voivodship. It works in our voivodship. More than 100 companies in its territory already operate and employ more than 10 thousand. employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I have a question. The gauges are down. What kind of action has the Ministry taken, I mean the last two years to improve these indicators? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u219	Thank you very much. And here you are, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to what I said when I presented my opinion and ask the Minister what specific actions the Ministry has taken with regard to zone managers, because, as we know, investment has fallen, it is about new jobs and it is an economic situation. What were the concrete decisions, discussions and what the Ministry did to counter this decline, because the economic situation should teach us that we have to put aside the deconclusion, and if the results are getting worse in the economy for no reason, then we have to ask ourselves why. I didn't look at your managers' stripes, but I know they make good money. Is there a system of evaluation and billing, because it's really bothering you. Try to do it, because dual education, vocational training, clusters, everything's fine, but these are [[♪ The bell ♪]] two basic indicators, the managers of which should be accounted for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u221	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u222	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the current situation. This is less than 0.1%. at the moment it is covered in special economic zones. Soon it will happen that Poland will be 100% covered by special economic zones. I have a question. At what stage is this, both administrative and organisational? How do you plan to organize all this, because there are now dozens of people employed in economic zones. How are these people gonna handle all those companies that are gonna want to invest? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u223	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. One was raised by Mr Maciejewski. The point is that some companies are actually quite well, because the profits are more than PLN 22 million. The question is: How is this money used? I see that sometimes the zone manager wants to shift responsibility for training workers to companies. Very often, companies take up this challenge and organize at their school facilities, which provide professionally new employees. Maybe it would be good for the zones to share their profits and invest them in this type of activity. The second point is: Will any analyses be prepared? The worrying thing is that in the Polish economic zones 25% , just for a good cause, money in cash, as far as the structure is concerned, this is the automotive industry. We know that the United States has introduced anti-lock duties on cars, which may have a very negative impact on the Polish economy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially in economic zones. Are you analysing this issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The information we received at today's Sejm results in at least three phenomena. Firstly, the number of permits decreased as much as half of the economic zones, i.e. in seven zones. Secondly, authorisations have expired in 133 entities which have lost the right to tax credits resulting from their activities in those zones. The third issue is the decline in invested capital in 2017. What I'm asking is, is this a coincidence, or is this a trend? Is it a coincidence that the BMW resigned from investing in Poland? Tax conditions are one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the stability of the law is the second. To what extent does the latter affect the situation in economic zones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u227	Thank you very much, Member. And I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Minister Tadeusz Kościński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u228	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for these questions. I have a little bit of a problem, like answering the question that we had 34% in 2017 more permits than in the previous year. For me, it's 34%. more, and here it comes out that you think it's less. We also have 21 000 in 2017. more employees, and somehow you found that this is less. Also in 2016, there was 11 billion invested capital, and in 2017, it was 20 billion, over 20, that is almost 90% more, and once again, you're reading from the fact that it's less. Let's remember that this is the result... that year-to-year it's going up and how would we turn on these zones that have expired, we'd have more than 100% increase. These permits were issued 10 years ago, they expire, which doesn't mean it's a bad thing, because it looks like it's something very bad. Let us remember that most of these companies still exist, continue to employ, continue to work and now pay taxes, so it is not bad news that they no longer have a license in the zone. That's good news. Mrs Hennig-Kloska raised the aspect of pay. I absolutely agree that in the old law it was the amount of capital, the number of jobs, that was the target. This year we added, as regards the new law: the whole Poland investment zone, this qualitative aspect. Now, to get a license, it's not the most important amount of capital or jobs, it's the quality, whether the salary is above average, whether there's high technology, or if there's cooperation with our universities. It is also about what you have raised, whether there will be cooperation with the professions, etc. Clean energy. The answer is that pure energy is also being processed in zones. There are no new zones because there are new zones here, too. The new law does not implement new zones, but introduces that there are no longer geographical boundaries. All Poland is a zone, but the zones remain the same as before. We will answer all the questions in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u229	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[One correction, if you don't mind.]] Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd just like to correct it, because you pointed out here that this data isn't fully passed on. I just read it thoroughly. Your report makes it clear with regard to new jobs that there is indeed a decrease of 12.5%. This is exactly in your report, which is why new jobs are at stake. This decrease is 5.5%, i.e. 12.5. And that's what's written in this report. The main point is that this decline was caused by the expiry of 202 permits and the termination of operations, which does not mean that no action has been taken to preserve these jobs, but this decline has indeed taken place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u231	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection of the information submitted was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 19 and 20 of the agenda: 19. Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2017 (print No.2421) and the Commission's draft resolution (print No. 2643). 20. Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017 (print No 2419) together with the Commission's draft resolution (print No 2644). I ask the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council of Mr Witold Kołodziejski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council shall report annually by the end of March to the Sejm, the Senate and the President, as well as to the President of the Council of Ministers on its activities for the previous year and on the fundamental problems of radio and television pursuant to Article. The 12th Radio and TV Act. I am pleased to present a report for 2017. This 2017 was the first full reporting period in the term of the National Council of Radiophony and Television started on 12 September 2016 in a 5-person composition, I remind you, shaped by the Sejm, the Senate and the President: Mrs Teresa Bochwic, Mr Janusz Kawecki, Witold Kołodziejski, i.e. me, Mr Andrzej Sabatowski and Mrs Elżbieta Więcławska-Sauk. Mr Kawecki and Mr Sabatowski are with me today at the meeting and represent the national council together with the directors of our institution. Please note that the report contains information on the implementation of the various tasks assigned to the National Radio and Television Council, including tasks related to the conduct of concession proceedings, control over the activities of broadcasters, the fixing and distribution of subscription fees, the fixing of concession fees, the organisation of international cooperation and many others. This report is several dozen, more than 60 pages of the text that we have given you, so I will not discuss it in detail, but, of course, I am waiting, I am ready with the whole team to answer questions. We also presented an analysis of selected market phenomena and processes. This part is included in the 2017 market situation information. This is also a comprehensive document, relevant to the market itself, as I will say two words during my discussion. I will also refer to the original text because of its extensiveness. I'm not gonna focus on a thorough discussion. In addition, I would ask you, these works, which were carried out by the National Council of Radiophony and Television, were carried out on the basis of strategic objectives and actions adopted for the implementation of the regulatory strategy for 2017 and 202022. This is a supplemental document, a book that allows you to see and also discuss our actions in a slightly broader context. Ladies and gentlemen, 2017 was quite an important year for the Polish audiovisual market. There were major changes both within television broadcasters and within radio broadcasters. The main changes observed took place and continue to take place under the motto of faster development of services and online platforms. It dictated the pace and direction of these changes. Also under this slogan was announced, among others. the most spectacular acquisition on the Polish media market, i.e. the acquisition of TVN by Discovery. I would like to remind you that the purchase of the mother company, Scripps Networks, by Discovery is a global transaction involving the participation of these companies worldwide. But in Poland this had a special dimension due to the market position of TVN programmes. As far as these and other processes are concerned, they are relevant from the point of view of one of the statutory responsibilities of the National Radio and Television Council, i.e. the tasks of protecting pluralism in the media, due to the convergence process, please countries, and the transformation of the media market. The threats to pluralism are noticeable all over the world. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a rather serious problem. I don't think I'd take that as a reason for mockery. The recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers of 7 March this year are worth mentioning. Other institutions also take the convergence and concentration process very seriously, above all, of the media. Convergence and concentration have been forced by new technologies, new distribution channels, also a new way of consumption of the media and consolidation processes that take place worldwide. This carries signs of the threat of pluralism through globalization processes. That's what happens all over the world. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe pointed out the need to introduce appropriate legislation on media ownership, including on the control of media ownership and funding, supporting the transparency of ownership, public access to information and databases showing the structure of media ownership. At the same time, he stressed the importance of protecting pluralism in the media, the diversity of content and institutional framework of pluralism, as well as the role of public media and local and environmental media. This part concerning the concentration of market mechanisms, changes in the Polish media market is very widely presented in the information of the National Radio and Television Council for 2017. I mention this because it is quite important, it is about fulfilling the statutory obligation, which was imposed on the National Council of Radio and Television. In addition, we carried out activities on a number of other sections and fields, including. further development of digital terrestrial television and digital terrestrial broadcasting is taking place. The National Radio and Television Council is preparing to announce digital frequencies in 34 cities. We want local digital radio multiplexes to be created there. I remind you that these are large cities such as Kraków, Gdańsk, Warsaw, Szczecin and Poznań, but also smaller cities such as Łomża, Koszalin and Siedlce. It's 34 cities, which is a very large population coverage. We hope that this will be a great support for the development of local radio, because this process, which has been going in the right direction for many years, namely the consolidation of radio broadcasters and in fact the fall - can also be used this quite dramatic formulation - local radio stations. At the beginning of the trial there were several hundred, now there are only a few dozen, and those really independent - even less. This is therefore an important challenge for the State, including for the regulator of the market, which is the National Radio and Television Council. So we want to announce these frequencies. At the same time, Polish Radio continues broadcasting in DAB+, and the other two multiplexes prepared for national radio stations, i.e. trans-regional radio stations, remain undeveloped and are waiting for an offer from current broadcasters who broadcast in analogue technology. We do not postulate what was an important signal for the market in 2017, the exemption or we do not specify the date of the exemption, so-called. Switch-off, analogue frequency. This was the basis for a rather profound dispute between the previous regulator, the previous composition of the national council and radio broadcasters. We do not believe that there is a need for a statutory order to disable analog radio or a statutory order to conduct so-called. simulcast, i.e. parallel analogue and digital broadcasting. On the other hand, we informed the broadcasters, we informed them that these frequencies are, of course, intended for their digital offer, but at a time when the digital radio will be sufficiently developed, they will simply no longer be reserved and will be issued in the tendering procedure. A concessional one, not a bargaining one. As far as digital terrestrial television is concerned, a communication on the future of the free-of-charge television market is important because it concerns this issue. We have identified that the issue of multiplex 5, which is still a multiplex to be used, undeveloped, will be announced as soon as possible, but no earlier than 30 June 2020. Until then, Poland is obliged to release the 700 MHz band for mobile broadband systems. This involves planning frequencies for digital terrestrial television, and therefore this multiplex according to the position of the Electronic Communications Office will be possible to run after the date of full refarming of these frequencies, and the release of the 700 MHz band. Therefore, we will then announce concession proceedings concerning this multiplex. We have announced that we will want to introduce this in the new technology, DVB-T2 terrestrial digital television technology with HEVC encoding. In short, it comes down to the fact that we will offer high-resolution television as a standard. We will gradually also want to move on to other multiplexes with this technology, so we are counting on the relevant regulations of the Ministry of Digitalization, which will clarify and define this, but we want to gradually move on to better, more efficient and better quality technology after 2020, which involves the adaptation of consumer devices, i.e. the exchange of televisions, or the installation of suitable adapters, which is happening anyway, i.e. The new TVs are already being implemented today. For the market this is important information, in which we have made another message that we do not foresee a significant extension of the free television offer on terrestrial television. About the current DVB-T multiplex capacity will correspond to DVB-T2 multiplex capacity in high resolution technology. This is important for broadcasters who must predict with what competition They're gonna face it in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, of the other things that we have undertaken and to which the Act obliges us, I will mention the provision concerning the organisation of research into the content and reception of media services. It's about TV and radio measurements, telemetry and audiometry. The National Council has this written down in terms of its tasks, and has not used it so far. Last year we started working on the implementation of this project, this year we already have the money in the budget for it, and next year we will continue to use it and we will organise these studies. What is important, we want to invite to this study all market players who use this research and work with their use, i.e. media homes, advertisers, marketers, and broadcasters themselves. To this end, we are working to create institutions like other countries, such as the Joint Industry Committee, which will bring together all stakeholders, so that they participate financially and have an impact on it as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm on my way to the end. Ladies and gentlemen! Another task is to develop financial and programme plans in consultation with the media and to divide the subscription. I'll be brief, well, I'm not going to dwell on a case that you all know, that the subscription is insufficient and, above all, the way it's collected is insufficient. By the way, in Switzerland, it just took place. referendum on the abolition of the subscription fee and 72% those taking part in the referendum voted in favour of maintaining this fee, which shows how important the issue of public funding is from a citizen's point of view. In Poland this problem is still not solved. We support one of the projects that were on this issue...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u233	Please come to the end, Mr President. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Excuse me? Just point out, because you're out of time. The speaking time is limited. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Okay, of course. Then I'll be done. All I can say is that quite important events of the past year and this year are meetings within the cycle of the Round Media Table. There, we are trying to achieve different objectives through agreement, which can be achieved more effectively together at a time when, together with the media, we will establish some principles that we respect together. Many of these meetings are very promising, and it is not only about various types of ethical codes, but also about market issues, such as the question of the approach to advertising dietary supplements or the presence on online platforms and many, many other similar ones. It is within the round table that the national council also proposes in such a form of dialogue and self-regulation. Thank you very much and I ask you to accept the report. Thank you very much, Mr President. And I would very much like to ask the chairwoman of the committee, Mrs Elżbieta Kruk, to present the justification for the draft resolution in print 2643.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 6 June this year considered the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2017, together with information on the basic problems of radio and television this year, print No 2421. The Committee on Culture and Media presents a draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the subject: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopts the report of the National Council of Radiophony and Television from its activities in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u235	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the President of the Council of National Media of Mr Krzysztof Czabański to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, last year, the National Media Council carried out its functions under the National Media Council Act. The main focus was the establishment of programme councils in public media, in all media companies. These software councils are over 30, because they also operate in Polish Television field offices. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that within our activities there is also a Polish Press Agency. We also set up a program board there. As you know from your own experience, there is a parity established by law in terms of the composition of the programme councils, that 2/3 of the seats are filled by candidates recommended by parliamentary clubs according to the parity defined by the Marshal of the Sejm, depending on the size of the club concerned. The Act does not provide for this kind of solution when it comes to the Polish Press Agency, but we decided to act in accordance with the spirit of setting up programme councils and the Polish Press Agency, where the number of the board is smaller, because the board is 9-person rather than 15-person, we also decided to ask for candidates in such a way that 2/3 of this number, or six, we called on the board from parliamentary clubs. In addition, we have appointed people who have been reported by various associations and social organisations. The role of the Programme Councils is not fully defined in the Public Radio and Television Act, but it has become so clear that they mainly deal with, according to their name, the programme sphere, and since the composition of each of these councils is very pluralistic, this view of the public media programme offer is made from different points of view. In our view, in the opinion of the National Media Council, programme councils should be strengthened in their activities, should have a significant role to play in the issue of a kind of ongoing monitoring of the programme offer of media companies, as well as in certain programme interventions, if necessary. I do not want to bore you with this purely formal report. It is not particularly large, as far as the National Media Council is concerned, it has been delivered to you as a parliamentary printing, so who's interested can dig into it. But I think it is worth saying two more words here, that we have also done, if necessary, changes in the boards of companies according to our competence, i.e. with regard to supervisory boards and public media boards, as well as dealing with particularly interesting or shocking events of the type of interference of the TVP signal via the Emitel network at the time, and we have dealt with such a matter that there are no officers and co-workers of the special services of the Polish People's Republic of Poland in the public media. If there are specific questions, I serve as the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u237	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present the justification for the draft resolution in print 2644.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Culture and Communications at its meeting on 7 June 2018 considered the referral addressed to it, in accordance with Article. Paragraph 125. Section 4 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, on 11 April 2018 by the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. The Committee on Culture and Media presents a draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. The draft resolution of the Sejm is very short, it reads as follows: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopts information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. However, I think it is worth adding a few more sentences here. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, the National Media Council presented a written but concise report on its activities in 2017. In a short speech, Mr President mentioned the implementation of the main task of the board - the formation of boards and supervisory boards of public media and of public media programme councils. He also reminded the Council of two important positions: on VAT for money entering the public media, which reduced the small resources available to public media companies at the time, and on the second point - so that the public media would not employ or cooperate with secret co-workers of communist special services. A member of the opposition board gave his opinion, which he described as separate, informing, among other things, that he thought there should be more changes in the boards and supervisory boards of regional radio companies. Members have asked many questions to the Chairman of the Council and the National Media Council. Some demanded the disappearance of one of TVP Info's journalists from public space, others on the contrary. [[Applause]] Some suggested that there was too much change and others that there was not enough change. However, a very important issue was also raised - the matter of the form, content and communication of advertising addressed to children. Many members of the Committee on Culture and Media raised this issue. This is a matter that media institutions should deal effectively with, I think, also with the participation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in monitoring this by the Committee on Culture and Media. This issue has been raised many times, but I think it is still waiting for an effective solution. The President of the National Media Council and the Deputy Minister for Culture and National Heritage have given comprehensive answers to Members of the Committee on Culture and Media. At the end of the meeting, the committee adopted by 10 votes, with five votes against and two abstentions, information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. Thus, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High Sejm adopt information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Puda, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u240	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on information about the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council for 2017. It is worth recalling that after the 8-year government coalition Platform and PSL the situation of public media, which was found, was very difficult. As a result of the deliberate activities of PO and PSL politicians, the subscription fee collection system was dismantled. The ratio of politicians ruling coalition to public media Their comments are best illustrated. For example, it is worth recalling the one from November... [[But it's not an electoral rally, sir. It's not an election rally. The election's in six months.]] ... 2007 Donald Tusk Civil Platform leader: We want to eliminate the scandalous tribute of subscription. There's no illusions. Public media owns their own. That's what you are. So first of all, they need to be weakened to the maximum so that they're not the dream loot for the ruling crew. Unfortunately, the announcement of the termination of the subscription fee resulted in a drastic drop in revenues from this title, which contributed to the further commercialisation of the offer of public media, and above all TVP SA. Attempts of maximum weakening and tearing of teeth of the national council, as Donald Tusk said in the above-mentioned interview, were detrimental to public media. The public media and PAP systems in place at the end of 2015 were characterised by far-reaching shortcomings that had to be eliminated in order to ensure their implementation of the mission. One of the first steps of the government to be able to implement measures to improve the situation in public media was the establishment of a National Media Council. In 2017, the National Media Council held 17 meetings. At and outside the meetings, the National Media Council adopted 75 resolutions on matters falling within its area of activity. In order to ensure the functioning of Polish Radio, the Council continued its competition for the position of President of Polish Radio SA in 2016, which resulted in its appointment for a four-year term. During this year the Council also dealt with the situation of the Polish Press Agency. In October 2017, the National Media Council decided that the new board would be double. The result of the National Media Council's activities was the establishment of a new board already in early 2018. As regards the formation of supervisory boards, the National Media Council, instead of the seven-member Supervisory Board, set up a new, much less numerous, because the three-member Supervisory Board. On the Polish Television, a new member was appointed as chairman of the Supervisory Board of TVP after having resigned from the Board of the previous President. In connection with the expiry of the current programme councils, the National Media Council has set up 37 new programme councils in public broadcasting companies, TVP, TVP Polonia and the Polish Press Agency. The Council also exercised other powers arising from the provisions of the Act, inter alia. agreed to change the statutes, initiated amendments to the statutes, agreed to appoint directors of the regional branches of TVP, defined the minimum share of broadcasts created by the field units of TVP in national programmes in 2018. On several occasions, the Council took a stand on matters important for the functioning of public media. Special attention should be paid here, among others.: to appeal for the non-employment of former officials, employees and collaborators of the special services of the Polish People's Republic, to appeal for respect for journalistic independence and to refrain from using the language and actions of aggression, a position on the negative effects on public companies of radiophony and television resulting from the amendment of the VAT Act. In order to obtain detailed information on the matter of broadcasters, the National Media Council met with representatives of public broadcasting companies, particularly TVP SA representatives. By safeguarding the wider public interest, members of the Council also met with representatives of different backgrounds. Following all events known in December 2016, the Council met with representatives of Emitel in order to explain the causes of multiple disturbances of TVP signal. It is also worth mentioning here a meeting with representatives of the Advertising Council. In the framework of a broad discussion, among other things, there was a discussion. about advertising properties of dietary supplements, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and additives. Ladies and gentlemen! Legal status prior to the entry into force of the Act on the National Media Council did not favour cooperation between individual public broadcasting companies and PAP SA. This has often resulted in a waste of energy and resources for repeating various initiatives, and even cooperation with commercial media, which competed on the market for public media. It is worth pointing out once again that, for the first time in the history of the National Media Council, two seats in the five-person opposition were legally guaranteed, which ensures pluralism and guarantees access to information about the activities of companies. In 2017, the National Radio and Television Council exercised its competence during 55 meetings during which it adopted resolutions in the field of its activities. During the reporting period, 24 concession competitions were decided by the National Radio and Television Council. Radio broadcasters have received three new concessions for the dissemination of local programmes. As part of the so-called process. The National Council adopted 10 decisions on the renewal of radio and television programmes. In addition, 25 licences were issued for the dissemination of programmes on cable networks. In total, 244 concession decisions were issued during the reporting period and 15 decision to impose financial penalties on broadcasters for a total amount of 274 000. zł. During the reporting period, within the reporting powers, the Board worked on issuing six regulations implementing laws, four of which were published in the Official Journal of the Laws. The work on the other two continued in 2018. The National Radio and Television Council distributed over PLN 1 billion to carry out missionary tasks by public broadcasters, including PLN 697 million from licence receipts collected by the Polish Post, and the remainder for compensation of revenues lost in 2010 and 2017 due to statutory redundancies of certain groups of subscribers. The distribution of these funds is as follows: Polish Television received almost PLN 621 million, Polish Radio - more than 193 million, and 17 regional radio stations of Polish Radio - more than 188 935 thousand. zł. These amounts were transferred to carry out the tasks agreed with the National Radio and Television Council, contained in the 2017 financial and programme plans. The National Radio and Television Council, like the National Media Council, held positions on key issues for the functioning of public media. In her statement of 23 February, she objected to the content promoted in the TV programme of Superstation, in which there were violent and hateful statements directed at journalists working in the company Television Polska SA. At the end of the proceedings, the President of the National Radio and Television Council issued a decision to punish the sender. In its statement of 14 December 2017, the Council critically referred to all manifestations of a rapidly increasing wave of verbal and physical aggression directed against journalists. The revenue generated by the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 amounted to more than PLN 24 million. They consisted mainly of revenues from concession fees and penalties imposed on broadcasters. The operating costs amounted to over 24.6 million and were higher than the budget revenue by PLN 0.5 million. High Izbo! In view of the above and given that the reports on the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council objectively represent their role, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the actions taken and will vote in favour of the adoption of information on the activities of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council for 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u241	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will now speak with Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so happy to see you here. Indeed, the national council can share money. First, the public media got a loan that they should probably start paying back, but I don't know what they're gonna pay them off and then they got compensation. So the national council has something to do, and for now it may think that it is a necessary institution. But I'll allow myself to look at what's going on a little bit differently, although I must admit that happiness has happened to us, because we discuss media in broad daylight, not deep nights, and clubs have at least 10 minutes to present their positions, not for example. Three minutes, which could happen because it becomes a rule. Even this combination of the debate on two separate agenda items this time seems to me good as if it brings clarity to the message. Two solid documents were presented to us: the report of the National Radio and Television Council for 2017 and information of the National Media Council on its activities this year. Like my previous speaker, I will talk about 2017 and not about 2007 because it was already, I think, discussed. So I'm going back to 2017. I'll admit I've been a fan of the National Radio and Television Council reports for years. I'm really saying this without a snack. So many exciting details, charts, quotas, percentages. I'm really collecting these documents because there's always something about this media market that comes out of them and you can learn something. Without malice - I face the competence and diligence of the council staff. Only she is not responsible for the strategy, the action of the constitutional body, only the 5-member council set up in the current September 2016. And we are to judge this advice in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have doubts that the word "making" is here because the report actually has more future time: we will do, we will consider, we will deal with, than any real tangible evidence, I do not know, in the name of the public interest, the right to information or freedom of speech on radio and television. Looking for a visual comparison, I would compare the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 to a pond with an eyelash. Same ghost and still. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry - still. Just as several years ago in this Chamber, the words of the Council of all things and nothing sounded, so today, if it were not for respect for the Constitution, I would gladly repeat them. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public television ratings and public radio audiences - I apologize for colloquialism - fall on the head. However, this does not change the fact that public television together with its 12 programmes, which are widely available, is almost 28% A media cake. In other words, it's the power ahead of the Polsat Group or the TVN Group. And what did the national council say? To tell you the truth, nothing. Whenever he can, he pretends public television doesn't exist. I repeat, he splits the money. But what about the money, what do they go for? Oh, it's quiet. I don't know what to think anymore: Are you afraid of President Kurski, or do you share his view that he is the best psychic in the world? I see a lot of colleagues in this room, so I'm in a hurry to report that a month ago we were supposed to have the best football team in the world, and when it ended, we all know. So perhaps President Kurski is wrong and public television is not from promoting bad tastes and spreading lies, harassing the opposition and maintaining the spirit of the rulers, but from setting standards that are completely alien to President Kursk. So that this National Radio and Television Council isn't good. The National Media Council remains in dissipation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Do you remember the debate in the Sejm on the creation of this creation? It was then possible to assume that it would be the authority to manage the national media, which you were supposed to call to life, exchange and carry out on a pedestal. And who else remembers those bubbly announcements? So? Nothing. The media as they were, they are, and I'd say it's even worse. The balloon grew, grew until it broke and out of it was raised by a staff office filled in 3/5 by the promoters of the concept of members of the governing group who wrote the bill themselves, themselves with the help of disciplined colleagues elected themselves and ruled by the management boards, supervisory boards and programme boards of companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I really appreciate the diligence of the National Media Council. 17 meetings, some programme councils appointed and at least twice wondered how public media journalists were attacked here by the opposition. I would prefer the National Media Council to think at least once about how they are treated in public media by all who have the courage to think on their own, and all who are not necessarily before the Law and Justice, its sanctity and the saints fall on their faces. So that, if you allow me, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I propose two amendments to the draft resolution of the Committee on Culture and Media. The first relates to the report of the National Radio and Television Council and reads: the Sejm of the Republic of Poland does not accept the report. The second, identically, concerns the National Media Council: the Polish Parliament does not accept information. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u244	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! My previous speaker has touched on a lot of threads. I will focus on the element of basic problems, because it seems that the fundamental problem is the lack of integrity. I will not refer to the report on the activities of the National Media Council because the President himself said that he did not want to bore us. It's hard to write a report on something that doesn't work. And I admire you so much that these dozen sentences have been composed. On the other hand, as regards the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, it must be said from this point of view that it is a constitutional body to uphold the freedom of expression and the integrity of the information provided, and unfortunately, in this respect, the President does not carry out his tasks. Information in its essence is knowledge that cannot be controlled by one party or another. If you have a constitutional duty to uphold the mission, unfortunately, Mr President, from this point on you must be said to be a missionary of the ruling party, a missionary of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] With regard to your passiveness, because you pretend not to see what is happening on public television, you do not hear what is said on public television, you should be made aware that it is a shared responsibility to allow. And you are co-responsible for the harm that is done to citizens by public media, because, in fact, public television insults the human mind. You do nothing to break the avalanche of lies, manipulations and contempt for the dignity of another man. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would allow your growing children to watch the editorial programme red. Ziemkiewicz, who makes jokes about Jews? Do you accept the entries on the stripes in the press programs? Excuse me, I'm quoting. Unfortunately, Poles had to watch such entries on screens of their TVs. I quote: the veil of the Jews has fallen. I'm not going to quote any more anti-Semitic jokes or leading statements, but you're not responding, you're not doing anything to resist these behaviors. I wanted to ask you if you ever watch public television. It's about the stripes on TVP Info, because TVP Info is ahead of it. That's not what the guy says, and that's not what you read on the stripes. The creativity of these people has shown that there is no bottom. We thought TVP Info had already touched the bottom, but it turned out that the creator of the TVP Info stripes was knocking from underneath, who can surprise us with more. That's why I'm asking, why aren't you responding? Not only in Poland is the famous belt translated into many languages: Poland fights to lie about history. This isn't an editorial error, ladies and gentlemen. This is proof of total amateurism. And you're responsible for that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u245	Elżbieta Zielińska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the reports of the 2017 National Radio and Television Council and the 2017 National Media Council. I'll start with the National Media Council report. As we learn from the report, the main task of the National Media Council is to appoint members of the Supervisory Boards, Management Boards and Programme Boards. We remember that when she was called, it was completely different. In the interviews of the then Deputy Minister Krzysztof Czabański said that this was a very important change in the system. There have been visions that we will now have a comprehensive media reform. In fact, we may need to consider the direction of change, because technologies and the Internet are changing the functioning of the media completely. But it wasn't done. We all remember how the attempts of this reform looked and how the projects from the committee were thrown in the trash. The report we received from the National Media Council is not sufficient to make any assessment of the action last year. There are only mentioned decisions concerning programming boards, supervisory boards and management boards, but there is no precise presentation of the decision-making process, evaluation of certain actions, and this would be important, given that in fact the open competition was held only on Polish Television and Polish Radio, while in regional centres it was completely different. If one of the objectives of the Council, which is also set out in the Act, is to guarantee the independence of public media from the executive authority, we can safely say that this is not the case. And since the Council does not fulfil its statutory tasks, it should be terminated. The Council also dealt with the aggression against journalists of public media, which is, of course, always worthy of condemnation, but did not address the extreme lack of objectivity of journalists. This confirms that the independence of public media against the executive authority and the governing party is fiction. It would be appropriate if, at least the intervention part requested by the National Media Council was presented in detail in the report. With regard to the report of the National Radio and Television Council, it should be stressed that it is much more abundant in information on the media market. However, it ignores many important issues, especially those concerning pluralism in national and regional media, where opposition groups are often denied participation. Sometimes even media representatives invited to press conferences at the last minute get information that they should not appear there, and do not appear at these press conferences. We, Kukiz,15, have met with such situations many times in regional centres. If the National Radio and Television Council is a constitutional body and it does not deal with matters as important to society as access to unmanipulated, full information, it seems that the rest of the statistics that we have received in the report is no longer so important, because this means that this authority does not speak on these key issues. It speaks on public media journalists, but only unilaterally when they need to be defended. However, it does not deal with the crossing of borders by journalists, nor does it deal with the fact that they are repeatedly aggressive towards opposition groups. I understand that this is a 2017 report, but the lack of reaction forces us to tell the National Radio and Television Council on current issues, which are very shocking. One of them is that public television shows where meetings will take place with representatives of Law and Justice. I hope that we opposition groups can count on this kind of publicity, too. If President Kurski wants to prove himself, Paweł Kukiz will be in Opole next Sunday. We invite public media very cordially. Let them be objective, show themselves to work in providing full information on the activities of parliamentarians, including those of opposition groups. 'Cause, you know, like... The fact that a Member of the Law and Justice has allegations that he has bought a driver's license to the left will no longer be heard, but the rest, yes. The National Radio and Television Council is usually silent in such cases. The second current and important issue to be said is the filming of a negative message against disabled protesters in the Sejm this year. Neither did the National Radio and Television Council show any reaction to what was happening. The report deals with disabilities on several occasions. The social successes of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, formerly Beata Szydło, are being announced, but how they dealt with people with disabilities, i.e. the weakest people to be defended, the National Radio and Television Council has not decided to move at all. Therefore, if the constitutional body has such a policy that it is unable to speak on these key issues, then the statistics presented in the report, as I mentioned earlier, is merely an attempt to hide the inability to conduct an objective media policy. The Kukiz Club15 negatively assesses the reports submitted by the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council and will vote against them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski will now speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm going to start with the National Media Council, because this is an exceptional puriazum in our legislative reality. There's no reason for it, but there's a reason for it. I would like to mention to you a spectacular vist, in bridge language, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, who said on June 15, 2018 in his interview on Radio ZET: Public media must present the position of the government and parliament, because they have a duty to present the Polish state of affairs. The Polish state's reason is to support the Polish government. This is the expression of a man who has spent his entire life in pluralistic media, and today he understands the role of the media so pluralistically. There are five people on the National Media Council, three from Law and Justice. All these people are messengers and messengers. They chose themselves, as Mrs Katarasińska mentioned here. It's also some kind of novel. I think it's worth saving in the history of our parliament and everything. I think that the European Parliament could also look at this. Maybe you should use these patterns and put them into wider water. I must tell you that I have a problem with the decision of the Civic Platform, which, knowing what the structure of the National Media Council is, has designated its man for this advice. I believe that such an intellectual-organizational-media formation cannot be legitimized. It's unnecessary for anyone. And I think that the presence of a very outstanding media expert, a journalist, after all, the excellent president of Polish Television years ago of Mr Juliusz Braun is simply unnecessary there. If I could do something about it - and our advice, as you know, is not always customs - he could give it up and leave it to you. Then you can ask one more person of your own. [[Applause]] It is not enough that Mr Czabański defines the role of national media and knows what they should look like in public communication, of course he also has an attitude towards those who attack journalists. This has already been mentioned here, but it is worth mentioning in extenso Mr Krzysztof Czabański's statement, because it may also be some kind of indication for future power, or maybe also for European Union officials, or maybe for someone else, the devil knows who can benefit from it. These soaring thoughts are really special. It is known that on 22 June 2017 and 14 December 2017 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] The Council discussed examples of repeated and increasingly aggressive behaviours of opposition politicians against journalists mainly public media. A number of aggressive, insulting and challenging Twitter entries were cited for specific journalists as well as direct attacks. I wonder what that means: direct attack. Perhaps Mr Czabański will explain these categories to us here. That's the category. Rather from a different mental order than a media one, but perhaps Mr. Czabanski has hidden secrets here. Following the discussion, the Council issued a statement calling on representatives of political forces to respect journalistic independence and refrain from using language and aggressive actions (...). I think we're going to use that indication. Not divorcing too much about this bizarre and absurd propaganda tool of the PiS state, the Posel Club Modern calls for the rejection of information about the activities of the National Media Council and calls for us to simply give up this information immediately if possible. On the other hand, when it comes to the information of the National Radio and Television Council, it has already been mentioned here that the National Radio and Television Council is showing extremely weak vigilance when it comes to citizens' rights to creative freedom or freedom of expression. Art. 213 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland says: The National Council of Radiophony and Television upholds freedom of speech, the right to information and public interest in radio and television. In turn, the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the Act on Radio and Television states: "The National Council protects (...) the public and ensures the open and pluralistic character of radio and television. The members of the National Radio and Television Council showed incredible passiveness in the face of extreme politicisation of public broadcasting and even shocking overzealousness when it came to alleged failure of private media, with particular emphasis on TVN24. The activities of the National Radio and Television Council in 2017 sum up its decision of 11 December to impose the biggest financial penalty in the history of the Third Polish Republic on a private broadcaster, TVN24. If it wasn't for an American brother, we'd probably be dealing with the punishment of this station. The report, on the basis of which it was decided to impose a penalty of PLN 1.5 million, was prepared by Hanna Karp, co-worker of Tadeusz Rydzyk and lecturer of his school. This is the element of objectivity of the National Radio and Television Council, Minister. TVN24 journalists, according to the National Radio and Television Council, have undertaken to promote illegal activities by encouraging the audience to participate in the assembly in front of the Polish Sejm building, not informing the audience about the resolution by the Police of the assembly before the Sejm, one-sided presentation of events through selection of invited commentators and guests, false images and lack of immediate correction of false information. The actions of the National Radio and Television Council were rightly read as an attempt to intimidate the media of the unsubstantiated Law and Justice. A wave of criticism, including in the international arena, led to the withdrawal from this compromising decision. At the same time, the National Radio and Television Council showed extraordinary passiveness in relation to propaganda abuses on Polish Television antennas. Nachalna, bringing to mind the deep Polish People's Republic, the propaganda of TVP1 and TVP Info's information and publicity programs, did not meet even the slightest criticism from the officials of the National Radio and Television Council. The best, most spectacular example in the Orwellian spirit was the account of last year's protests defending free Polish courts, where empty squares were shown, where there are no protesters. It's just something extraordinary. The president of the Polish Television Jack Kurski was not reprimanded when he declared that the public door of the sender would be closed to the actress of the Warsaw Theatre of Powszechny Julia Wyszyńska, who appeared in the loud Public television was actively involved in the chase at the Powszechny Theatre in Warsaw, extremely objectively reporting the premiere of the Curse. She was broadcasting illegally recorded videos of an escalating emotional performance. The language of hatred has become the main tool of this narrative. Of course, it's not a coincidence. The outstanding Polish philosopher Leszek Kołakowski, the victim of Marc.68, wrote: No authoritarianism can give up hatred because pure negativity of hatred immobilizes any human agreement. It was dominated by a clear, extremely critical tone of statements from journalists and invited guests. No other perspective was taken into account at all. The plurality and diversity enshrined in the Act were abandoned. The lack of tolerance and professional imagination, but above all elementary competence, is an unacceptable criterion of public television managed by President Jack Kurski. The Council did not take any action when, as a result of the decision of the president of TVP, the festival of the Polish song in Opole was compromised. TVP practices primitive, unprecedented manipulation in democratic countries. The National Council of Radiophony and Television should defend constitutional records and uphold freedom of expression and the right to creative freedom. The National Radio and Television Council has not taken any action, pretends to be apolitical, and is essentially a political body representing the interests of the ruling party. Without responding to the actions of President Jack Kurski, the National Radio and Television Council accepts human rights violations. This is unacceptable. Therefore, as I have said, I am submitting a Modern proposal to reject the resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council from its activities in 2017. Such a National Radio and Television Council is simply unnecessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u249	Mr Michał Kaminski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u250	And the Union of European Democrats. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is necessarily not only a debate about the media as such and bodies which in constitutional order supervise these media of the Republic of Poland. This debate in its essence is also a debate about the state of Polish democracy, I will tell you more about the state of Polish freedom. Why? For democracy, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, is not just a technical process of counting votes and ensuring that these votes are counted exactly as they were given, but of course this is crucial for democracy and, as for this, also in Poland, doubts are growing. But democracy makes sense not only when the electoral process is guaranteed, but also when the debate is guaranteed and freedom of expression is guaranteed, in other words, when access to the truth is guaranteed. 101 years ago, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, when on October evening and day 1917 Wlodzimierz Ulyanov with a party nickname Lenin made a Bolshevik coup in St. Petersburg, the first decree he introduced was not a decree about the land he promised the peasants, there was a decree about the peace which he promised Russia, but there was a decree about press control. Because the more filthier the dictatorship, the more he fears the truth and the more he wants to control the information. [[Applause]] And that's why Vladimir Lenin realized that lying can't be half-hearted, that the trait of the worst, most filthy dictatorships is total lie. That is why Vladimir Lenin the Central Committee body of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks) and later the KPZR called the truth, although for 70 years of its existence from the first to the last page was one big lie. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because even reading the public television stripes brings back the worst patterns of totalitarian propaganda, which is not only a lie, but is primarily about disgusting the opponent, denying him moral and human competence to be a participant in the public debate. Who do you think the belt was about on public television: Pedophile Defenders? Or one or the other bishop who moved a paedophile from parish to parish? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, about the Polish opposition. Is the belt: The wages grow like yeast, and the wallets of Poles are getting thicker - this was the belt that illustrated the famous appearance of a woman from that bleacher who screamed that her bonuses belonged to her? No. Did: June 4th, the symbol of betrayal and conspiracy of the elite - this was the belt that spoke of any historical truth? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. It was just a lie. And now, both gentlemen with beautiful resumes, I am saying this to both the Minister at the head of the National Radio and Television Council, and to the Member who is at the head of the National Media Council, both of which are gentlemen of intellectual qualities, which are beyond doubt: gentlemen, this graphics is one big accusation that you are unable to cope with the duty that the Republic has imposed on you. [[Applause]] This graphic shows the politicians in the program News Guest: 415 times did PiS politicians, PSL politicians - 2 times, Platforms - 48 times. Well, what I'm trying to say is that this isn't pluralism, this is lying to reality. But, Marshal, High Izbo, the problem isn't just what lies Poles can hear from public media antennas. The problem, and this is also very significant, is what they do not learn from them. E.g. on this television, which, apparently, should seem, is very sensitive to Russian influence in Europe and Russian imperialism. From this television. Poles did not learn about Russia's funding of extremely right-wing political parties in Europe, which spread artificial hatred for immigrants. This aspect of Putin's activities and his regime was not informed by public television. I'll tell you more. In fact, public television - and this is Jack Kurski's great success, who has been placed... The task that he was tasked with was very difficult, namely the target group to which he addresses his message Jacek Kurski is unique on a media scale in the world, this target group counts one person. What this TV shows, what is a projection of your fears, your hopes, your concerns and your overall image of the world, is the worst review you can give your characters. This television speaks very little about the world, it speaks very little about Poland, while it speaks very much and very clearly speaks about you. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will allow myself on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats - it is a long and complicated name, Mr. Marshal, so difficult to learn, but I hope that one day will come - I will allow myself to make two amendments on behalf of our club. The first: the text of the resolution is replaced by the following: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland rejects the report of the National Council of Radiophony and Television. The second of these amendments is: The Polish Parliament rejects information about the activities of the National Media Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u251	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! Today in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, head of the European People's Party, asked Prime Minister Morawiecki a short question: Why is public television, TV Poland, propaganda television of the government? 3 years of management, I turn to the right side of the room, public media have led to the fact that this situation is already known throughout Europe. So far, public media has been characterised by honesty, pluralism and a third feature - focusing on local problems in the regions. Today none of these features are present in public media. There's no integrity for a penny. There's no pluralism for a penny. The PiS state often accuses us of being ignored. A program called Mr. Red. He hosted TVP Info on the air throughout the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Why didn't you leave Thomas Lisa live? That would be symmetrical, Madame, to prove that you are not worse at least. [[Too smart.]] The issue of dealing with matters of life of Poles in regions, all over Poland. Why do we not hear anything on public television about the drought that has been affecting farmers for weeks? Why is there nothing about ASF, there is nothing about problems of municipal Poland and district Poland? So far, it has been very important to ensure that Polish Television and public radio are very close to these issues, as few of which medium. Why do we not hear about what is happening in our regions today watching any regional television programme? Unfortunately, this work has been lost recently, and these features, which defined it, defined public media in Poland. My club friend Michał Kaminski brought this data up to speed. I recommend such short statistics, which will complete what we talked about, on the example of the News Guest. I will include the result of the support to Parliament with the presence in this programme. PiS received, as we know, 37,5% support, while almost 80% This program is being completed by the guys from the PiS. The platform received, as we know, 24% , only 9%, as the biggest opposition party, guests in this program. Finally, the Polish People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, received 5,13. Guess what percentage our representatives were hosting. 0.4% , and it was exactly two Members, including I was lucky. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I really...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u254	...dramat, collapse of public media. Too bad, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u255	The question has been asked...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u256	...I'm going to repeat that you're unfortunately firming this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u257	... 13 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: Why not alternately?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, for two reports one minute?]] That's enough. [[Voice from the hall: This is the pluralism you use every day. Classic example, Marshal. Shame.]] Don't yell at me from the gym, sir. [[Voice from the hall: I won't scream, I've got a sick throat. It doesn't come to you sometimes.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! Mr Kołodziejski. Mr Czabański! This was the case last year. In March I was invited to the TVP Info program, my name was already shown on the belt, it was announced to the audience, but suddenly I got a text from the publisher of the program: Mr. Sorry, we have to cancel your participation today. The PiS Bureau maintains its decision not to participate in the programs with you. I do not regret, I do not come, but this shows who runs the Polish Television, Mr Czabański [[Applause]] and Mr Kołodziejski. PiS office. PiS office, PiS Press Office of Mr. Marshal Terletki and Marshal Mazurek - these are the managers of public television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u259	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! Mr President! I remind you of the date: 13 December 2016 - judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which states that the exclusion of the National Radio and Television Council from the process of appointing the authorities of TVP and Polish Radio is incompatible with the constitution. I have a question for you, and I would ask you to answer: do you have any secret knowledge when these constitutional powers will return to the National Radio and Television Council? Gentlemen! Public media should be a public good because they are paid by the taxpayer and have become the weapon of unprecedented political struggle, the weapon of the PiS, ladies and gentlemen, to fight a thoughtful spectator. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What public television shows, you cynically accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u261	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! Question to the Chairman of the National Council: Did the National Council, or maybe the National Media Council, verify for what purposes in the public media the enormous amount of compensation and the gigantic amount of the loan? Question to the Chairman of the National Council: How many complaints during your activity have affected the reliability of public television and what kind of punishment have you imposed on public media? I would also like to inform you whether you are aware of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 13 December 2016. What action did you take to execute this sentence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u263	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President! Of course, I have a question for you whether we have pluralist public media in Poland. [[We don't.]] Of course, I agree with the answer that we don't have, because we have media that lie about reality and are politicized by the PiS government. For this is an example: huge money is spent in public media, huge money is spent by a Polish taxpayer, to put just such faults and information on websites, e.g. Polish Radio, as follows. Polish Radio 24, Internet radio. Seven times in different combinations the title was repeated: the IPN Act is great, the IPN Act is the best here. I want to ask how much these advertisements cost the Polish taxpayer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's why... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...is the Polish National Foundation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u265	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This point should be called: as in 2,5 years for state money to do its party media, PiS-Polish media. Since the acquisition of power in Poland, you have managed to carry out a number of purges in public media, throwing away most journalists. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] You've replaced them with party officers ready for any rudeness directed against the opposition. An example of this is the program "Woronicza 17" or the scary stripes on TVP Info. To be honest, this television is a party television and it has nothing to do with public good. That's the good of PiS. For a long time the Białystok branch of Polish Television has ignored my press conferences. Despite every invitation to most of them, they just don't come. Not to mention the set-up with Mr Żalk, who entered the City Office in Bialystok, and TV, like this private TV PiS-owska, broadcast everything, and it broadcasted it live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u267	Mr. Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President! We spoke from this speaker, we said in 2015, at the beginning of 2016, what will become television, with television, which was public good. Television has become PiS-owska TV. Unfortunately, this is also seen in the studies that have been carried out. Here in 2016 the public said that 50% Communications on public television are not objective and in May 2017 are not objective. - 66.7% public television communications are not objective. In October 2017, the public, 85% The audience demanded the objectivity of Polish Television. What happens to television that shapes the consciousness of Poles? What is happening is a propaganda crime on the public awareness of the Polish society. And you can't keep quiet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From this speaker, you should answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u269	Member Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to see what you have done with public television in Poland, because it is already such an informational deviant. In the broadcasting bands of public television, government television actually, because public television is a bad word, as well as public radio, there is no critical information available to the government. What is the information in the public media where we can't find any positive material for the opposition? How do you receive such public media where broadcast events under the Supreme Court are completely different from the reality there? Can you gentlemen sometimes turn on two screens: one with commercial media, the other with TVP Info to see the two parallel realities you've created? I'm gonna say this: what you've done to the public media is such a mess, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't see it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u271	Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! At the beginning of the Sejm's term I said that Polish Television and public media are like Goebbels propaganda. It was a metaphor at the time. Yeah, it was a certain allegory, but it's been two and a half years, and I don't think it's an allegory anymore. The public media are really starting to look like Goebbels propaganda. I've written to you several times about when and where the media lie. These letters were left without rational and reliable answers. I have a specific question: How much TVP spent on the uniform - on the law - and what is the profit and loss account of the entire project? I would very much ask the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council to answer that question. I think Poles should know how much public money this uniform cost them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u273	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President said that the risks to pluralism stem from certain globalisation processes or from the emergence of new technologies. I think most of us won't agree, because the greatest threats to pluralism stem precisely from the desire to influence power towards influence on the media. If something in Poland needs to be defocused today, it is the public media that are in the hands of the authorities. The media need to get them out of the hands of politicians so they don't spread Goebbels propaganda to the corrupting nation. Because how else do you call these stripes on TVP Info, manipulation of text and image, complete bias in the message, or fueling anti-Semitic moods? And that's what you've done, is that these are the opinions that are best featured today by the media, which used to be a glory... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...our nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u275	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! Minister Kołodziejski informed us a little with regret that the Swiss voted in a referendum to fund public media. I probably regret that this is not the case in Poland. Don't be surprised. It was necessary to build national media, fully pluralist media, fulfilling a public mission and then ask Poles - they would probably agree to it too. Poles don't fall for it. Poles do not want to pay their subscription and oppose the financing of the TVP PiS. And since I'm at Jack Kurski's PiS TVP, I'd like to ask him what he spent a billion zlotys on last year's grant received in December Ub. R.? If we look at the ratings, they're on their heads, on their necks. You think a dark people will buy it. No, he won't. Poles are a wise nation, they won't fall for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u277	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is what we have against you: on June 4th - the symbol of treason and conspiracy of the elite. Mr Czabanski, if it weren't for these people in 1989, you would probably still be a member of the PZPR. How could you agree to these people being treated like this? How embarrassing are you? [[Voice from the room: Sentiment.]] The question to the rapporteur, but he died, disappeared, I don't know what's going on at all. [[Voice from the room: On TVP Info.]] When I listened to his speech, I thought he was the author of all the stripes on TVP Info. It's just a scandal, what you're doing. And let me be honest: people who have at least a little bit of honor after watching two editions of news and a piece of the TVP Info publishing program would either hide deep or resign. Behave yourselves honorably at least once. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u279	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. I don't have one for you, Mr. President of the National Media Council, because you know what kind of institution this is. But to the Chairman of the National Council: When will you start watching Polish Television? When? [[The voice from the hall: Russia Today is watching.]] I'm asking because it's art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 of the Constitution requires you to uphold freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. It's clear you're not watching this TV. [[The voice from the hall: Russia Today is watching.]] Really, you're not watching. If you'd all just... I know it can't be seen, I share that, but you have to do it, [[Applause]] Really, you have to watch TV in Poland and draw consequences. After all, this scale of propaganda, this scale of falsehood and lies demands a reaction from you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're obliged... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...a constitutional record. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u281	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm not gonna leave you alone about Jack Kurski's human rights violations. Tell me when you're gonna deal with it. This is a really serious problem. Denial of the right to creative freedom enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in Article. 73, but also in Article. 54 - everyone has the right to preach their views - it is something extremely important and creates space not only symbolic, not only axiological, but also ordinary, human in the Republic of Poland. I really want you to have a very interesting professional, professional past, and I value it, just to deal with it somehow. It's a big challenge. I understand that opportunism, conformism in the situation you're in is natural here, but fight back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u283	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would you like to speak? There were no questions. [[Voice from the room: How was it not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were actually no questions to the National Media Council. There were disgraceful personal tours from the Modern Member, completely outrageous words. I hope the marshal will pay attention to that. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[I'm not ashamed of my story.]] In addition, there were quotations twisted by Mr Mieszkowski, because I did not mention that public media should report or give only government arguments. I told you there should be a government argument in these media. 'Cause where's the government's argument if it's not in the public media? [[Voice from the hall: In Trwam.]] I didn't say it was. So please, if we are talking about some quotes, so that we quote precisely, what you as a creator know is that then it is easier to talk, how the quote is precise and unabated from context or sometimes even twisted. Unfortunately, he was. As far as this creative work is concerned, since you mentioned it, I wanted to point out that the Television Theatre, typically creative activity, is currently grouping the most outstanding theatre creators in Poland. You know that very well because you know these people, you know what they've done. There is the rebirth of the Television Theatre in front of us after years so praised by the state when this theatre fell. Since there were no questions for me, I will not prolong my speech. [[There was a question.]] Yes? [[How many critical materials were there on the government?]] Mr. Speaker! A journalist once asked me about it, and there was silence on the radio... [[Yeah, I heard.]] ...because I was amazed at that question. It's like journalists are asking me to sit in the heads of journalists, know their views, and tell you who has an attitude towards what political party. It was about the radio, not your questions. [[There are no objective journalists.]] It's true. As far as these materials are concerned, I am very sorry, but I do not do such monitoring to assess whether a given station is criticizing one party or another. [[I'll answer that.]] What do you gentlemen or do you want from me? You talk a lot about the independence, the objectivity of the media, but you want to manage these media. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, I will answer: no such materials.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u285	Please don't disturb me, okay? [[You can punish me.]] Yes, I can punish you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u286	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. If there are any questions later, I will answer. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But if you'll excuse me, do you want me to run the media every day? [[Voice from the Chamber: There has been a complaint about this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u287	Mr. Chairman, please don't argue with the court right now. This isn't a committee meeting. You've already had the floor, and now you can't ask questions. Don't argue with the Members in the Chamber. [[This isn't a piss show.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Then I'm just gonna answer one topic from the conversation, from the questions in the previous statements, and I'm gonna put an end to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u289	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u290	Well, there was a single complaint, which was recently lodged with the National Media Council, about the violation of journalistic independence or, strictly speaking, about the suspicion of an infringement. We asked for clarification from the media company concerned. The case is in the middle of an explanation. It's the only one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There have been complaints, among others. Mine. There were individual complaints.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u291	Thank you very much. The representatives of the committee shall not speak. Mr. Chairman? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Do you want me to comment?]] It's up to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u292	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! There were actually very few questions to me, although there were many, even more accusations, but these are not accusations against the chairman of the national council or against the national council, but this is actually a debate and discussion about one of the broadcasters whose national council, among other things. is engaged in, or even one programme or group of information programmes of one sender. I am President of the National Radio and Television Council for the second time, and it is not for the first time that I have the opportunity to present my report in this Chamber. I explain the same thing every time. I understand that some of you are either Members of the first term or Members with less experience, so I will say it again. The National Radio and Television Council was created in the early 1990s after the collapse and change of the entire system, including the media system, and the basic records that are introduced there concern the creation of an institution that is to deal with the entire market. Most of the entries concern guarantees for the media, guarantees for independence. The prohibition of preventive censorship is mentioned several times in the law itself and in the Constitution itself. No office... I repeat, we're not... If Mr Szczerba waits a moment, I will answer him when it comes to this text, because it is also a bit crazy that you ask... [[Why?]] But I'm gonna answer that, right? [[It's crazy he got a text like that.]] If someone doesn't want to talk to you, I, as chairman of the national council, will not force him to talk to you. [[Why do you choose Mr PiS instead of Mr Platform?]] If she doesn't want to talk to you, and there was a discussion planned, it's just not going to be a discussion, because I can't help it if they don't want to talk to you. So we have a question addressed to the chairman of the council about why no one from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice wants to talk to you, and that really is not a question for me. [[And that doesn't have to be on that TV, Mr. Chairman.]] But it wasn't a monologue, it was a dialogue. I understand the dialogue didn't go well, so they didn't invite you either. Well, in any case, it's not a question for the national council, nor are questions about the program design are such questions. Is the principle of pluralism implemented and the tasks of the public broadcaster being carried out? Yes. Mr Michał Kaminski showed the graphics and left. He showed it, but only showed it because it had data, among others. Main data, from the report of the National Council. We're the ones running the statistics, but not just to order and censor, just to show... [[But you're not responding.]] ...and, among other things, Mr Kaminski could have printed himself such a poster. [[Where's the reaction?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u293	Don't disturb the President. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Ladies and gentlemen, another graphic, which is in the report of the National Council and in the information on the state of the market - and Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska noted this and mentioned it - this is the one presenting market share. We deal with the entire television and radio market. Television Poland is the largest television group on this market and its shares do not decrease at all, as it has been said many times here, but grow because it strengthens its position as a group. This is 28% the market. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha...]] It's not funny, it's just facts, they're just numbers. [[She needs to be distracted.]] This is the market share of public service television channels. We're talking money-sharing. There was a question about how much. TV spent on the world championship. I have no idea how much she spent. It's an internal matter, and it's a company secret. If I get that information because I'm gonna ask for it, so I'm gonna get it, it's confidential, so I'm not gonna be able to share it either. I just see the balance sheets as they are, and these balance sheets are positive for TV so far. The current president's declaration shows that television will make a lot of money on the uniform, but I don't know how much, I don't know what the rules are and what the cost of advertising are for each match. [[Voice from the room: And you know something or not...]] [[What about journalistic integrity?]] You've already spoken, Mr Zembaczyński, and please don't disturb me. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I know I'm not a censor. You'd want me to censor, and... [[I'd like you to be competent.]] But you want me to censor not TVN or Polsat, just public television. So I... Mr President, please do not discuss this with the Members in the Chamber. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: ...I say I have no ambition to censor any of these stations. What the sender cannot, at only one point, defines very specifically the Radio and Television Act. It's an art. 18. And all complaints from the state, with a very large representation of opposition politicians, to the national council, are being examined in this respect. They concern both public broadcasters and commercial broadcasters, mainly information and publicity programmes issued by TVN. Therefore, our approach is the same, unchangeable and equal for all, and it results only from the application of the exceptional restrictions imposed by the law. We won't talk, and we can't tell the sender what to say and how to build his programs. Our duty is to clear and ensure that the money that is spent from the envelope to the mission, from the subscription, is actually spent on the production of missionary programs. First of all, when it comes to public television, it is financed from subscriptions in less than 30%. So if we're talking about the program shape of public television, then I can only refer to the 30% that are funded by the subscription. And that's what I settle, and that's what I'm watching, and that's how I analyze the financial and programme plans, and then all the reports. And I can say that it grows, for example. the number of premieres of the Television Theatre on public television, which are financed directly by subscription money, because today we are already dealing with three premieres in a month, which was not before. There used to be three, four premieres a year, not three premieres a month. And this kind of work is really done by a public broadcaster. You are focused only on one information program, i.e. TVP Info and... [[Because the other one's gone.]] There's a second TVN24 that has a similar audience. But why aren't we talking about the entire market when the national council is the body to watch it and regulate the entire television market? Unfortunately, we are talking about stripes, unfortunately we are talking about text messages, we are talking about off-screen activities. Mr Mieszkowski reported a problem. We've been explaining this problem. There's no violation of the Radio and Television Act. Is there a basis for making your case on a civilian basis, I do not know that, because I did not conduct such analyses, but in the light of the Radio and Television Act it is not a restriction of freedom of expression and, above all, it is not a violation of the article. 18 Radio and TV Act. But, of course, I asked for an explanation. Since you've filed a complaint, I'm the one who asked for explanations to the president of television. He prepared them, filed them, and I think I've been texting you back about the complaint. As far as the other reservation is concerned, there are actually a lot of understatements, inaccuracies or pure ignorance here. If there is a question about what 1 billion of compensation has been allocated to television - this is a question to the national council - then I will answer: Nothing. There was no compensation of 1 billion in 2017. Did she pay off the TV... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: 960, indeed.]] First, not in 2017, second, not... [[Voice from the room: How can I not? Budget of 2017.]] Mr President, continue your speech, not discuss it with the Members in the Chamber. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes. In 2017, TV did not receive a billion PLN compensation, but received 250 million. Mr. Chairman, can you hear me? Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: That's all I'm gonna say. This information is in the report. 950 million were for all public media, i.e. regional public radio stations, nationwide public radio and public television. This division is also set out in the report. As far as I know, the TV loan paid off. How much she made on the uniform, I don't know. The president says she made some money. I'm sure her position, as far as the audience's market shares are concerned, has gone up a lot on these broadcasts. [[It's gonna fall in two weeks 'cause the uniform's over.]] Maybe, maybe not, I don't know. I'm not the president of television, and you're here to see me... Mr President, I ask you not to argue with the Members in the Chamber. That was the time on the committee. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Don't lecture the guest.]] Members now simply interfere with the proceedings. Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Good. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, what belongs to the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council... I repeat this once again: neither the Constitution nor the Act gives the National Board of Competences of the Radio Committee, because it was just created at the time of the liquidation of the Radio Committee. All we care about is not to exceed the limits set out very strictly in the Radio and Television Act. I'm sure we can't resort to preventive censorship. On the other hand, with regard to all the statistics that are produced in terms of political statements, the participation of politicians, we conduct them fairly for the next months and publish them. On the basis of these statistics, you can criticize the President of TV if there is a basis for this, but there is often no basis for it, because these statistics are different in different months. On the other hand, you did not talk about Polish Radio, about Polish PR24 information radio. As I understand it, there are no objections. You didn't tell us about the Polish Radio regional radio stations, you didn't tell us about such programs and new public television projects as open TVP Sport on terrestrial television, as well as the well-growing TVP ABC, TVP Seriale, TVP Culture, TVP History and others. [[And this is the National Radio Council or TVP?]] These are the money that is spent on creating and carrying out missionary tasks by a public broadcaster. The share of information programmes is up to 4% shares in the entire television market, and as far as subscription funding is concerned, this is a zero share, because TVP Info is maintained and financed by its own resources. The full list of complaints and responses is contained in the report of the National Council, so it can be read there - also about penalties imposed on broadcasters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolutions. If I don't hear any objections, I'll be careful... [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] What's the objection? [[Voice from the room: Passage.]] [[Voice from the room: We do not agree to join...]] But it will be decided in the vote. [[But I object.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: First the opposition, because we want a referral to the committee.]] [[There's an objection because we want the second reading to take place on the committee, and there's an amendment...]] Objection, I understand, regarding the transition to second reading. [[Voice from the room: Direct. Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, you understand the marshal well.]] [[Member Iwona Sledzińska-Catarasinska: Why do you object? Where do you want to report these amendments?]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, the opposition is withdrawn!]] You don't understand the situation. No amendments were tabled. If amendments are tabled, what will be sent back to the committee. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We understand now.]] In order to submit amendments, you need to start a second reading. You object to the transition to second reading. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: No, no, you have already withdrawn.]] [[Voices out of the O.R.: We've withdrawn.]] [[We've got corrections, we're pulling back.]] You're withdrawing the amendments? [[Voices from the room: Objection.]] Objection. There you go. So I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolutions? [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Yes, please.]] Mrs Iwona Katarasińska is reporting. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Thank you.]] You're welcome. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Is there a time?]] Three minutes. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: 3 minutes? Well, maybe I can make it. I don't know.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u294	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. It's not like that. That you got rid of the possibility to fill the boards of media companies and set up a HR office for this purpose. The National Media Council doesn't mean that right now no one is responsible for what's going on in public media. I didn't say 28% for that. the participation in this audiovisual cake, the public media, so that you can see that I read the report, just to say that if this group becomes leading and there is such power, then, with all respect for independence, there can be no such thing: do whatever you want, do what you want, on this television. It's not like that. You're not the chief accountant who just shares the money. That's not true. Even with the art. 18 however, there are grounds for applying any rigour and restrictions to these broadcasters. And if Mr Czabański is from these boards, I ask what else President Kurski is doing, if, I believe, Mr Czabański, as a longtime journalist, is also not satisfied with the offer of public television programme. I mean, you're the one who fills the board and eventually changes it. Gentlemen! It's not like you got rid of your responsibilities as part of that swing. There are many Poles who only watch public media and listen to them, and you shape these people. Let me quote something to conclude: Public television makes people addicted to stupidity, and it should rise to a higher level, show culture and art, do it in an attractive form. There are no more creators on TVP, only 3.5 thousand. bureaucrats. And further: Public media have not been depoliticised and need to be repaired. They're the government's propaganda tube. It's not me, it's not the Civic Platform. This is the voice from the Congress of Delegates of the Association of Polish Journalists, Mr. Red. Skowronski, who, as we know, is a sympathizer of this power, this political camp and these governments. He's not from the Platform, he's an enemy of the opposition. This was said at the convention of the association led by him. That is why we are requesting that both reports be rejected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u295	Amendments, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u296	Here are the adjustments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to strengthen your voice. It has come to our attention that Prime Minister Morawiecki is dissatisfied with how public television talks to his audience from the level of programs. It may be worth considering, therefore, that this public television really leads to a situation in which it will be even minimally pluralistic. Try to refer to the constitution's provisions, as well as the laws, to restore this television dignity, to restore this television to the public, to the people who dream of this television, and have forgotten about it. The state has led you to believe that television has simply become a government dumpster into which everything is actually thrown in. Those journalists who are so politically explicit on TV leave virtually no room for manoeuvre for all those who are trying to conduct any dialogue. Public television has become a denial of political dialogue. This is an absolutely unacceptable situation. The level of public television programmes falls under the jurisdiction of the National Radio and Television Council. You can influence this and you must influence it. Without it, this television will simply be caricatureal and grotesque. There can be no situation that propaganda television will be the only public television in Poland. Remember the situation when Andrzej Wajda died, I was talking about it from that bleacher. Well, public television has given some minimal information about the death of this outstanding director. At that time TVN24 broadcasted all day programs and videos related to Andrzej Wadza, memories, etc. It's not a matter of the state just sharing money today. Well, you can't take responsibility off your hands and transfer it to the National Media Council, which actually replaces states with certain competences, to some extent, the responsibilities that the National Radio and Television Council has always had. Wake up and try to engage in a dialogue with all those who today believe that public television is PiS television. This is a very serious problem. For all these reasons, we apply for rejection. Here are the corrections, Mr. Marshal. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u299	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! To begin with, I will refer to the words of President Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council. Well, Mr President, the data presented by Michał Kaminski, as well as I, concerning the key programme of the Polish Television, did not come from your statistics, these were our calculations. It is not, I assure you, the High House, difficult to do such analyses when it comes to the participation of politicians representing certain political parties in the publicist programmes of the Polish Television. I would ask you to take such an approach, to talk about how you focus in the national council on analysis, statistics, and not to obscure in the House the report for the past year the essence of the problem that most of the parties present in the Sejm have reported. We are dealing with the collapse of public media, and the state - I have such an irrefutable impression - you are ironic about these arguments which are falling here, speaking about the theatre, about other things. No. We have a terrible situation because we don't have pluralist public media. We have fallen the standard, which has become permanent in the countries of Europe and, unfortunately, is failing in our country. You can't freeze it, Mr. Chairman. That's the truth. We don't agree to that. Public media, as I pointed out in previous years, but they have reached a certain standard, which was mostly used by society, because we had a pluralism of debate, and TV reflected what we had, for example, in the national political scene. I'm afraid that's not the case today. Today, the average Kowalski, including one, the second or the third television programme, receives such an image as if every step of the way only the Law and Justice in this country cared for the down and misery of each of the inhabitants. That is unfortunately not true. We really recommend - this is an appeal on the occasion of this debate - to lean on this problem, because it is not, let us take into account, for example, the words and part of the discussion in the European Parliament, with the participation of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the problem present only in our debate, but unfortunately it has already spread throughout Europe. Mr. Marshal, thank you. I also allow myself to make amendments to reject both information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u301	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolutions tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on these drafts after the report of the amendments tabled has been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. [[What about the committee, Marshal?]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection. Will these amendments go to the committee?]] No. [[Well, that's an objection.]] Okay, we're gonna vote in the O.R. over your objection. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment (prints Nos 2651 and 2664). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! The first reading of the Government's draft law on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, print No. 2651, took place on 27 June 2018 at the meeting of the Sejm. On 27 June and 2 July 2018, the Joint Committees: Infrastructure and Local Government and Regional Policy appointed for the substantive examination of the draft law worked over the draft law article after the article. The legal solution consisting of financial assistance in the form of rent subsidies pursues two main objectives: the social objective - by addressing income subsidies for people who are able to purchase housing on their own, with the right standard on the current housing market, taking into account the intended pro-familyness of solutions that show preference for more than one household member; the investment objective - by addressing subsidies for people who settle new buildings, whose implementation increases the volume of housing investments. In addition, the rent subsidies strengthen the local dimension of housing policy by the leading role of municipal authorities in the selection of investors and the establishment of the rules for the qualification of tenants. Aid may also be part of a policy encouraging investment in areas undergoing regeneration. The rent payments are addressed to households with a certain level of income and without any other apartment. The rent payments will be granted for the period indicated in the project and will depend on the local cost of building the apartments, the occupied area of the apartment and the number of household members. An annual verification of the right to aid and the amount of aid is foreseen in terms of compliance with the criteria, as well as the conduct by the municipalities of the selection of tenants taking into account the criteria set by the municipality's board and the conclusion of lease agreements with tenants after examination of the ability to pay the rent on time. The aid will be applied for first-time housing. These may be newly built apartments or apartments located in existing buildings located in the area of a special revitalization zone, undergoing renovation or reconstruction. Such a solution is intended to create new housing investments for rentals that would fill this identified market gap. It is assumed that the result of the programme will be the creation of a housing sector for rent built by institutional entities managing entire buildings with apartments for rent. It is possible that, thanks to the payments, rents in these apartments will also be available to people with average income for whom there is currently no adequate market offer. It was proposed that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2019 with the exception of certain provisions which should enter into force after 14 days from the date of publication. Several substantive amendments were adopted to the draft law. In addition, legislative and editorial amendments were tabled by the Legislative Bureau to clarify some of the proposed provisions. The two joint committees have completed their work and recommend a further legislative process in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u303	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Bogdan Rzońc.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I would like to recommend support for this bill, prints 2651 and 2664. We are aware that the whole housing policy is an absolute priority of the rule of law and justice, and I believe that this opinion is also shared by all parliamentarians of law and justice, namely that housing policy is an absolutely important instrument for the implementation of requests made to parliamentary offices. The National Housing Programme, which operates, therefore receives further statutory support. This national programme will also be implemented through this law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not wish to extend, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice I am proposing a number of amendments which will be the subject of the proceedings of the High House, as well as the committee on tomorrow. The amendments are absolutely necessary and meet the public opinion and the demands made to the parliamentary offices, to the parliamentarians. These amendments extend the maximum period of application of aid to 15 years. These changes are linked to an increase in budget appropriations for this purpose and the possibility of applying subsidies also for subsequent tenants of the apartment during this extended period. I ask the High House to accept these amendments, and I am handing them over to the marshal at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u305	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u306	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform maintains its position that we need to look for effective solutions to help Poles, Polish families, solve housing problems. But we think that we need to develop forms of aid, not just to limit them to one way. And today we are talking about a bill to replace the existing forms of aid. This is clear from the justification of the Act that, after the closure of the scheme, the residence for young people, who replaced the previous scheme, the family on their own, since 2023, will in principle no longer be any other form of support for access to housing than this mechanism of rental payments. And that, in our opinion, is the wrong method. We also have a lot of comments on this submission. We discussed in committee, expressed doubts and concerns. Some of them have even been divided by the Minister. But in Mr Dzońca's speech, apart from one proposal to extend the funding period from 9 years to 15 years, I did not hear any other. And we pointed out: It may turn out that this goal of increasing the supply of apartments will not be achieved or even those built apartments that will be rented will lose the quality of the first settlement. And then what? The number of apartments will be limited and we will find that we will have a law, we will have guaranteed budget resources that will not be otherwise managed, because you have excluded residence for young people, other forms of support for access to housing the government has not foreseen and the law will not be implemented. We didn't find an answer to that. We also have doubts about the very bureaucratic mechanism for allocating apartments and verifying the statements of potential tenants. This is not what we like, and we drew attention to it during the committee meeting, which is why we have tabled amendments in this respect, which I am about to make to the marshal. We also want the article to be amended. 35, because we believe that since there are so many unknowns, the government must be systematically informed by the Minister responsible for the implementation of the programme and these reports, proposals, recommendations on how the programme works, must be submitted annually. It cannot be postponed until the next half a decade, because it may turn out that money will be wasted. We will appeal, we will also submit our own projects on solving housing problems. Let me remind you: The residence for young people and family on their own allowed 250 thousand. Polish families get access to the apartment only within 8 years of the Platform and PSL government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in your term of office, another over 60,000. the people also gained thanks to this apartment program.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u307	Thank you very much. You will now speak to the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u308	No, we're not gonna conclude...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u309	... Jakub Kulesza, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u310	...to reject this project, but we ask you to lean on these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna try briefly, but I'm gonna try hard, 'cause with your ideas, it's only fair. Alexis de Tocqueville noticed in the 19th century that democracy ends when Parliament realizes that it can bribe its own citizens with its own money. What you've come up with is not just an idea for action, it's your modus operandi. Once again, the government wants to give away not its money, citizens' money, and spend it on other pre-election social transfers. After 500+, after the school expedition, there came another project, Of course, they have been preceded by various forms of taxation, because, as we all know, the government is not giving away its money. Margaret Thatcher has already noticed that the government has no money of its own, only the money it will take from its citizens. And that's the idea. Instead of fishing, you want to give the citizen the fish you took from him. Thus, this dependence of society on social transfers is a deepening of poverty and strengthening it. If you say that you will give different social benefits if you or your family do not exceed a certain threshold, you will not encourage them to improve their efficiency, improve working conditions - you will encourage them to maintain this poverty. And that will be the effect of your actions. The worst thing about all of this is that we have a good global economy, thus a good economic economy in Poland. Instead of taking advantage of this prosperity for reform of the collapsing pension system, health reform and tax reduction, the country eats over and wants to eat through, even further in debt to the next generation. This project has a number of flaws, apart from ideological problems also has technical problems. First of all, it assumes that at the beginning support for the tenant will be greater and then smaller. This will easily lead people into the trap of poverty: make the rent of an apartment dependent on social transfers, on support to reduce this support later and basically leave the tenant on ice. The second problem is that the State is predicting an increase in the cost of this programme from year to year, which is that you are transferring the costs of the programme to the next governments. Moreover, subsidies may increase the volume of cash on the demand side, which may increase rental prices, as has been the case with various other ideas of this type, and thus may worsen the fate of other families, e.g. Those who won't try to finance it. In short, we oppose this idea. We are opposed to further social transfers at the expense of society, and from the outset we stand in the position of reducing public spending and, above all, reducing taxation. Of course, there are housing problems in Poland. I'll tell you how to solve these problems in a friendly way. It's a very simple way to lower labour costs, which is to give people a fishing rod. If someone's working and making money, maybe we should stop taking 40% of it. His salary, the one he's already working on at the start? It's a good recipe. We have proposed a number of such projects, among others. increase the tax-free amount that reduces labour taxation. But what did you say? That you have no money. That is to say, a tax reduction, i.e. not to take away the citizens, the state has no money, but to take away, spend on bureaucracy and pay some back, the state already has the money. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. So that as Kukiz,15 we are opposed to this law. At the third reading, we will be in favour of rejecting the project in its entirety and we hope that it is a modus operandi of the Government of Law and Justice - which is only aimed at elections and at bribing citizens with their own money, as Alexis de Tocqueville said - will change. If not, I hope that in Poland really right-wing governments, i.e. those that reduce public spending, and those that reduce taxation, especially taxation of the poorest, i.e. taxation of labour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u313	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The comprehensive program of building apartments is really necessary for Poles. The apartment program for rent should be part of it. Supporting housing for rent is an extremely important issue, which is also included in the Modern Programme. However, the form proposed by the PiS is unacceptable. We support apartments for rent, but we oppose the form of implementation of assistance in this bill. If you want to effectively support construction for rent, first of all, stop taxing investors. Start reducing VAT rates, shorten the depreciation period, end up with adverse tax rulings to the detriment of investors. Secondly, eliminate the tax on commercial real estate, because the taxes paid by developers charge construction, and therefore citizens pay for all of this. Thirdly, eliminate the progressive tax on the income from the rental of apartments, because it will be, like other tributes introduced by you, paid by Poles who will rent these apartments. Fourthly, eliminate the bank tax because it's the bank's customers who pay this tax, not the banks, as you beat us two years ago. If this tax had not been available, firstly, mortgages would have been cheaper and secondly, they would have been more accessible. The lack of an apartment is a pain of thousands of young Poles entering adulthood. Translating or failing to solve this problem only results in a layering of further problems that affect our society. For three years, you have not been able to fulfill your promises, which is why you will not fulfill them either. Now you want to take the money out of the program, living for young people, who, or whatever was working well and helping thousands of Poles, allowed them to dream of having their own apartment. We can't give people, ladies and gentlemen, apartments for nine years. And then what? Are they gonna stay on ice? Wouldn't it be better to support Poles through loans for their own apartment? Isn't it better for the state to guarantee loans to people who don't have credit? This would encourage people to work hard for their own homes, while the project will deactivate young people on the labour market because if a young person or a young couple gets this apartment, they will not want to exceed the income threshold. They will do everything they can to keep this threshold under control, and if the employer offers such people a raise, they will either not agree to it, or they will want in some other way, maybe even illegal, to get this raise. That is why we do not agree to this solution. In the amendment we would like to propose: a zloty for a zloty, i.e. if you exceed the threshold by a zloty, the funding is also reduced by a zloty. We also have the 2nd amendment, which says that the verification of income will not be every year, but every 2 years, so that there will be no pressure on Polish residents that next year, if someone makes more money, they will have to move out of the apartment and will not be able to receive funding. Ladies and gentlemen! We should have a proactive policy, and you're doing the exact opposite. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u315	Thank you. Do you want to speak? There's one more minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u316	Yes, I'd love to, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u317	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Using a certain allegory, you could say that we liberals give people a fishing rod that they can fish for, and we help those who can't do it themselves. But you Socialists take these fish from people, eat meat, and give them the bones. And that's the way it is with this bill. Well, I remember when you raised the minimum wage, they set the minimum hourly rate. You said it would solve all the problems, that now young people would be able to live on their own, live on their own, and so on. It turned out that after the introduction of the bank tax, commercial tax, excise duty on new goods, increases in ZUS for self-employed people, recycling fee, tax on commercial property, issue fee, third tax threshold - in a moment will be - the elimination of the upper premium threshold, the maintenance of VAT rates and, attention, the introduction of progressive tax on the rental of these people's apartments cannot afford... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop taking their money and then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u319	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u320	Everything's gonna be okay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u321	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking at the first reading, I expressed my opinion in the debate to my club, I said that an objective such as securing apartments for young people entering into life, who are often in a difficult material situation, is very important. I also said then that our club is in favour of continuing the debate, that we will support solutions until the finals. Today I want to uphold this statement. Yes, we will support it, we are in favour of continuing the debate. Nevertheless, all these issues that have been raised during my first speech and by my previous speakers today should give us thought and should be a factor that will affect us not only to think about it in such a narrow way as this law is talking about, but also to expand this scope, to deepen our thinking and to give opportunities to other solutions as well. The provisions of this law restrict and practically extinguish those programs that existed. We'll only have one show. Well, it's good to have one. The rapporteur says that an amendment has been tabled to extend the duration of the programme from 9 to 15. Okay, but what happens after 10, 12 or 15 years? Minister, I think it would be good in the meantime or in the next period to come up with other proposals as well. It's okay with the economy now, it's okay with our budget. We hear that it is very good, so let's use it and make it so difficult in this area as it is in terms of carrying out projects and tasks, adopting solutions, making young people get an apartment where they can operate, paying rent so that they can still have a normal life, there is also a programme that will be complementary or alternative. Very well - and we have already stressed - that the programme is directed not only to one side, but that local authorities are involved, that investors are involved, but I think it deserves attention here the need to prepare and submit cyclical information about the implementation of the programme, so that in 2 or 3 years, or maybe in a year - I am not talking about what option the government will create then - it has not turned out that we are in as difficult a situation as today after the implementation of Resolution 115 of 2016, and we are not even talking about the effects it has brought. That is why we are in favour of this - we will support this action - for this situation to result in the adoption of a legislative act, but I ask you to take a broader look and not narrow it down to just one programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u323	Thank you. Nine ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to find out what fund, what financial support was provided for local government units in the administrative management of this programme. Unfortunately, I regret to say that the local government is only becoming a middleman in the transfer of public money. It seems to me that a much better solution would be to give money to local governments so that they can satisfy housing needs in any way possible. They vary according to the municipalities. There are very different needs. It would definitely be better to transfer this money, and here we are dealing only with a certain administrative service. Second question: Will people who receive State aid under this law also be able to apply for a housing allowance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u325	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, during my first reading, I asked myself how many investments from the I'm still waiting for an answer. I hope I get it in writing. And today I would like to ask: How many apartments for rent will be built in Podlaskie Voivodeship, how many families will be able to enjoy these apartments and in what cities? Will these be the three largest cities of the Podlaskie Voivodeship: Białystok, Suwałki, Łomża? Are these cities going to build these apartments?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u327	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. She's not here. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to get back to what I was talking about during the club performance. Well, I wanted to ask you if you're talking to each other in the government, Minister. I'm asking because your government has introduced a dozen new fees and taxes, left VAT at 23% and 8% And now, instead of making such an assumption that these taxes are oppressing the economy, harassing people and either not adopting them, or the ones you have left on a high level, lowering them, leaving behind money, not giving them to people, just programs like this, trying to convince Poles that you are giving them something. Meanwhile, this is their money, drawn out of their pockets. I have a question for the Minister: Wouldn't it be wiser, rationaler - I know that propaganda couldn't handle it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] - would leave this money in the pocket of Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u329	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u330	High Izbo! I understand that there is a need to support the program, because people have doubts as to whether to sign contracts, since, as in Biała Podlaski, they get an apartment in the state of development and have to add 20 and 30 thousand more. PLN or rent is more than PLN 13.14, and this is a lot. Why is the rent so high? That's the first question. The second question is, do you have to break the law on this occasion? Because you're applying a completely new definition of a single-family house, leaving out the definition of a single-family residential building known from the Construction Law. The difference is that in this single-family house there are only residential premises, and not, as defined by the Construction Law, that there may be 30% of the total area of the building as a commercial element. Why is that? And the question is: in the law that we are now looking at, about the facilitations in the preparation and implementation of housing investments [[♪ The bell ♪]] will you apply the definition of this law or the Construction Law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u331	Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start by saying that I think that this is a very good bill that Poles are waiting for, and young people are waiting for, families who want to decide to have children. Thank you very much for being born before them the opportunity to have an apartment and be calm, so to speak, being. Minister! However, I have a question about the granting of aid for these 9 years. It is clear to us that this amendment is to be introduced or is the amendment proposed to extend these subsidies to the years 15. I wonder why not until 20, and I'd like to know for a simple reason. About from the time of starting a family and having the first offspring to the time when the offspring were born. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He leaves the house, it's about 20 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u333	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you want to sum up the achievements of the PiS in terms of support and dissemination of rentals, first, you can't miss the fact that it was the PiS a few months ago that raised the flat rate from the rental of 8,5% To 12.5%. [[Applause]] And not so long ago - the commercial real estate tax, which was originally intended to cover only trade, but ultimately will also cover apartments for rent. It's a very specific lease and construction support for rent. I do not know if you can see this glitch, especially since it is clear on the market that the effects of your existing activities are simply an increase in prices when it comes to renting apartments. So the question is, aren't you going to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] withdraw Are you okay with this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u335	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During my first reading, I formulated the question: What are the effects of the National Housing Program? Law and Justice alone has ruled for almost three years. The National Housing Program has been established, the apartment+ programme is being implemented. How much money has been spent on solving Poles' housing problems, and what are the tangible effects of this? How many apartments have been paid as part of the apartment +? And one more question. The construction industry is in crisis right now. We know we're shorthanded. What happens if these apartments don't rise? Please answer me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u337	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question of a more specific nature, it's the provisions of the law. Well, in your vocabulary, you point out that the housing investment is a renovation or reconstruction of buildings in a special regeneration zone, which means that the renovation of the housing facility was carried out for an amount of 1,000. PLN will also be considered as a residential investment and thus such an apartment will be eligible for payment. And the second question concerns Article. 6. There you indicate that aid may be granted if the first residence takes place within 12 months of the construction. Are you not concerned that this period of 12 months may cause investors [[♪ The bell ♪]] won't they want to invest in this type of construction? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u339	Thank you. Now please speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Mr. Arthur Sobonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna refer to the club appearances, but I'm gonna start by thanking you. I thank the Members for their substantive work, for the fact that they had tabled proposals for amendments during the committee's work. I would like Members of this debate to register these amendments because I feel that not all of them have been recorded. The honourable Member has tabled an amendment in his speech, it is a zloty for a zloty, and this is an amendment which has already been accepted by this committee. I don't mean to be malicious, but let's note that it was a zloty for zloty, it was the introduction of open priority criteria in the municipality's decision, it was a security through an investment fund in the absence of participation in situations where such participation was required, and it was also covered by the payment scheme for investments in the last 12 months. Back to this debate, I would like to stress once again that our idea for housing policy differs from that we are completely convinced, and the reality surrounding us confirms that in Poland there is no problem with the demand for housing. Each month of this year, when there are no subsidies under the scheme, more than 15 thousand are sold. apartments. Without stimulating demand, we have a situation in which this market is growing. I'm talking about this year, I'm talking about this year. Strengthening demand by spending money e.g. for own contribution when borrowing a loan is a housing policy on this principle: We help those who do not need help so that instead of a 40-metre apartment, they buy 45-metre apartments. There's no point in running this kind of policy. That is why we address this policy to those who have not yet had state support, i.e. up to 40% societies which do not fall within the social criteria but are not able to obtain housing in the market at the same time. Will the subsidies we are proposing now be the only instrument for housing policy in the state? Of course not. We have a lot of these instruments. Just look at the BGK subsidy fund, how many support instruments it offers to municipalities in the field of municipal construction. This is over PLN 6 billion, an absolutely record amount, which we give to local governments for construction within the municipal housing stock. We also do not eliminate housing allowances. I promised during the committee's deliberations that we would propose systemic changes in this area and that this element of the state's social policy will also remain. I would like to draw Mr Grabarczyk's attention to two amendments - this is about the 15 years and the first settlement. In my opinion, they illustrate what we discussed at the committee meeting. On the other hand, as far as the article is concerned. 35, then every year we will report a set of expenditure through reports from the BGK subsidy fund. [[Let's put it in the bill.]] Because these subsidies go through BGK, so there is no need for additional reporting. I think 2025 is good to see how the programme works in some medium term period. Is the mechanism very bureaucratic? I wouldn't call it that, because we focus the whole mechanism on local governments, knowing that local governments have competence in this area. Should local authorities receive additional remuneration for this? Well, first of all, I am absolutely convinced that the local authorities will deal with this, secondly, and I would like to reassure the Member that the local authorities have agreed on a project in this area at the meetings of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. They believe that, since it is their own task, it allows them to conduct rational housing policies and smart local governments such rational housing policies will lead. And today these powers in local governments are flexible - because Poles are getting richer and every year we have 400,000. less decisions on housing allowances - so the personal reserves for carrying out this task in local governments exist. That's why we don't put money on this task for local governments. Mr Kulesz asked us who we were doing this for. Let me repeat: The programme is for all people - as we estimate, even for 40% of the population - who do not meet the criteria for granting social aid and at the same time cannot buy an apartment or build a house out of their own money, nor do they have a chance to make a mortgage commitment because they will leave the bank with a receipt. Mr Hayek, I will also quote to you, I think you have read the Constitution of Freedom. Well, even such a liberal economist said that the state could withdraw from different spheres of life, but the state could not withdraw from housing policy for one simple reason: in this part of the world, in this part of the world, Europe is four seasons and winter is cold. The state must never allow people to freeze in the streets. That's what the most liberal economists said. That's what I'm considering, if it's worth living policy. I'll tell you more, housing policy is something that's definitely worth driving, because other countries are doing it. As far as expenditure on Polish housing policy is concerned, in relation to Western European countries we are the country which spends almost the least. We spend more per capita GDP only from Croatia, Serbia and Bulgaria. Everyone else spends more, some several times more on GDP. Thatcher's British economy also spent a great deal on housing policy. Why? Because it's not just an investment in these buildings. This is an investment in the future of those who decide whether to stay in Poland or leave Poland. This is how we treat policy and commitment from the state. The state that you have withdrawn from the housing policy, leaving this exclusively to the free market, we are restoring as an important actor who will not build the apartments, as we said in the first reading, in this debate, but can support all those who need these apartments and in Poland it needs 2 and 3 million apartments. On these comments, which I have read and what I would like to say, Mr Kulesza, I would like to say to Mr Kulesza that there is no degression in this project for a long time, we have not proposed a degression project at all to the High House. Yes, there was a project that was discussed, but a project went to the High House without a progressive system. Mr Truskolaski's statement was some profound appeal not to tax developers. I understand that this is a modern programme, but you will allow us not to share it, a programme in which no public danin should be imposed on those whose sole purpose in building housing is to earn money. [[Lie!]] If anyone rents apartments on the commercial market or builds to achieve the highest margin, they should pay taxes in Poland. [[But you raise those taxes.]] We do not share the view that the developers are not doing so well. I understand that it hurts you that there's been a miracle that without raising taxes, the revenue goes up to the budget. What is much to say here is that there are different methods of fiscal policy than raising taxes. That's what our predecessors did. [[You're raising taxes.]] I address Mr Kotowski. We are in such a situation that these amendments address to a large extent those comments which have been adopted and which Mr Rzońca, for which I thank, have been tabled. Why 15 years or 20 years? We give 15 years of payment, 20 years of payment to the apartment, i.e. The same tenant may have 15 years of aid as a result of this amendment, while the situation may be variable, so there is this 20-year period. We assumed that in 2025 we would carry out a verification and we would have a serious discussion about it. That is also what is written in this bill. Will the people, I call upon the King's Member, who will receive the aid, be able to apply for an apartment allowance? Yes, if they meet the criteria, they will be able to apply. As for Mr Truskolaski, yes, Białystok, Suwałki, Lomza. You'll get it in writing. As far as Mr Suchon is concerned, I replied, because this is still the expectation that we should not tax developers. I'm sorry, we can't live up to that expectation. [[That's bullshit! Lie! The Member lies in the mouth of the speaker.]] Mr Wilczyński. Accommodation+ is always lower than on the market. We have shown that this rent is lower on the example of the realization that we have already given up. In White Podlaski it is 13 PLN. This is a rent lower than the market. This rent will vary in different places in Poland, but it will always be lower than market rent, because we have shown that technologically, organizing a scale, acquiring cheaper land, wisely using investment money, we can build cheaper. [[The difference in definition.]] The difference in definition is only for conversion purposes, but of course we apply in the so-called. the housing specialty definition of the Construction Law. Mr Grabarczyk asked how much from the budget, how much from other sources, if I understood the question correctly. [[And what a result.]] What effect? I was answering. You see and see this effect, because these declarations of this number, the scale that we are talking about, are still valid. [[No, but the effect is already.]] At present, the effect is 7,000. apartments built under the two pillars of this programme, i.e. under the social, municipal and investment programme, because I want to emphasise... [[Breaking into...]] Mr. President, listen to me. I want to highlight one thing. We have money for both support for the poorest, and this is the money that we secured in April's amendment of the law which gives, as I said, a record 6 billion PLN for municipal construction, and we are building the program We invest in this program, we invest money that we don't spend from the state budget. I would also like to stress that, because we treat, once again, construction or housing policy as an important investment. What happens if these apartments don't rise? It would have been very bad, which is why we are the guarantee that these apartments will rise. Is the industry able to implement such an ambitious project? This is today's most growing industry. I realize that this is also its advantage and its disadvantage, because the resource that this industry is sucking in is huge, and expectations, also in terms of labour market resources, material costs, are huge. Without government programs, we can't respond to the industry's expectations. And of course, this bill is not the only answer. There will be further projects that will respond to construction expectations. Once again, construction in the first quarter of this year increased by 25%. If anyone knows a little bit about the economy, he realizes there's no better way to assess the economic condition than the growth in construction, because it's... [[In 2008, there was such an increase, then there was a crisis.]] It's just that he's healthy now. ...because it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u341	Don't disturb me, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: ...produce that other sectors of the economy will also develop. This is the importance of building growth for the economy. To answer Mr Pampuch's question, I wrote down: no, there must be an apartment, but honestly, I forgot exactly what the question was. In any case, this period of residence was recorded as 12 months. That's the result. The whole procedure... [[Uh, bureaucratic.]] ...council agreements with the investor. That's how we wrote it down. Is the procedure bureaucratic? Well, sir, we're spending public money. We must have a guarantee - we must rely on the competence of the municipality - that the municipality, first of all, will choose the people who should be in these apartments, the people who need it most. We give the municipality great freedom in this regard, because we leave statutory priority criteria, such as: Childhood, help for people with disabilities, help for the elderly or for repatriates, Poles from the East, but we also say... we give the criterion open after these changes. Perhaps there is a community in which a specific social group, a particular profession, is needed, for example. missing in the local hospital - there may be a preference for this professional group. Is that very bureaucratic? I don't know. Perhaps you hate self-government. We believe that we need to work with the local government, and that is why this programme is based on a partnership between the state and the local government. And in the end, he is to benefit from who is at the very end and who you forgot, the Pole who is waiting for the apartment. I think we'll work on this project together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Correct, Marshal.]] But no, it's not a discussion. There was time on the committee, gentlemen. You had time on the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, 30 seconds.]] 30 seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u342	Minister, we are working for Poles, for Poles, and we want them to pay as little taxes as possible, and you are constantly increasing these taxes. You're the ones who raised taxes: banking, commercial, rent-a-houses, increase water fees, waste water, increase the fuel charge. What else... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Will you raise the tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u343	Mr President, you are not making things right, but you are going to argue. [[You told the minister that... taxes, so...]] Here you go, 30 seconds, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you absolutely didn't understand what I said. Well, I clearly said that it is not art to spread money after people, but art to build a program that will actually provide real support and a real alternative when it comes to the housing needs of Poles. Of course, such a programme needs to be run as much as possible and housing policy needs to be pursued, but this policy is not about giving away money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing I have to correct... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] This program will put money in the developers' pockets...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u345	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the... Wait, I'm sorry. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is to be an expression of the implementation of the announcements from the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki. According to the project, the first aid will be granted in 2019, with PLN 400 million foreseen for this purpose in the first year and PLN 2 billion per year between 2023 and 2027. How will this costly game be financed? Are further public danins expected to be introduced? According to the justification of the project, the family at its own and the living for young people, the budget for individual housing aid will be lower than the current scale of public expenditure for the first years of the scheme's operation. How, then, does this have to do with the loud announcement of putting greater emphasis on housing policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u347	Until the third reading of the bill... The amendments were, indeed. In view of the fact that the draft amendment was tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws (prints 2626 and 2700). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first reading of the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws took place on 27 June this year. at the Sejm meeting. The motion to reject the draft law at first reading was rejected. The project was addressed to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On 3 July this year. the project was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. Four amendments were tabled during the three-hour discussion, which were voted after the opinion of the Government representative and the Legislative Bureau. The essence of the first amendment was to change the way banks communicate information about IP addresses and related information. Amendment 2 deletes the words "indemnities" in Article. 119zy in § 1 in point 2. The other two amendments were technical in nature. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft Law amending the Tax Order and certain other laws annexed to the print report No 2700. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u349	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Gosievski will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u350	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance, print No 2700, draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, initial printing No 2626. The amendments to this Act include provisions on blocking in the account of the eligible entity. In order to improve the efficiency of the split payment system, the bill introduces the possibility of using the STIR channel, i.e. the IT system of the clearing house, to send information by the head of the tax office to banks or SKOKs about the decision to release funds from the VAT account. Changes to ensure greater completeness and legibility of the so-called Black letter will support entrepreneurs in the proper performance of tax obligations, among others. through the ability to verify the integrity of their counterparties. During the committee's work, it was confirmed that the right to challenge the blocking of the eligible entity's account for a period of up to 72 hours and to challenge the limitation of the scope of that blockade was abolished. This is the right solution because at that time the tax authorities will be able to coordinate with other services, including in particular the prosecutor. The obligation to provide information on IP addresses is introduced so that the risk indicator and the risk analysis carried out by the Head of National Tax Administration can be more precise. Data that facilitate the identification and residence of persons actually using a blocked account are necessary to establish networks of interconnections and relationships of persons actually using accounts that are usually organisers or participants in tax fraud. In the case of fiscal offences, sham economic activity is registered with other persons, so-called. poles which have no assets and often have no knowledge of the real purpose of the project in which they participate. During our work in committee, we changed the way banks provide information about IP addresses and related information. The proposed amendment takes account of the demand of the banking environment. We have also implemented the deadlines for implementing the amendments introduced by the Tax Order. We have also introduced an amendment that will allow the head of the KAS to issue a provision for the transfer of funds from the blocked account of the eligible entity to any maintenance pension, not just a maintenance pension which is deemed to be compensation. The proposed changes are intended to further seal the tax system. The amendments introduced in the Committee on Public Finance for many hours, including a dozen legislative amendments, improve the original bill. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the report of the Committee on Public Finance, print no.2700, draft law amending the Tax Order Act and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u351	Thank you. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Revision of the amendment and still to be amended. That's what I assumed at first reading. I was right because this was the announcement of the next amendment that we heard during the work in the Committee on Public Finance. [[Applause]] This is a bit of a pity, because the finance minister first presented the amendment through the PiS Members, pointing out its particular importance in the statement of reasons, it was about the proper fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the law, and then the director - because the Minister left the committee meeting - felt that he was withdrawing his support for the amendment because it was underdeveloped. He felt that it was better to do this with the next amendment and that after the summer we would proceed to this amendment, indicating further places where we have systemic defects that need to be addressed. Then we will have another amendment. And this is proof of what sounded like, a few times already from this bleacher I said: We have a huge legislative mess when it comes to tax law. I would like to remind you that this amendment concerns a law that applies for 4 days from 1 July 2018. Can anyone else be surprised that we are falling when it comes to the competitiveness of our economy? World Forum ranking, lawmaking, transparency, I don't remember, 116th or 118th place in 137 countries. What shocks me in all this is that the Minister announces to the public the transfer of the Interministerial Tax Order, the new ordination, 3 years after the adoption of the assumptions. Incidentally, today we find out from the Minister that it has been corrected according to the Minister's guidelines. It's not good for her, by the way. But the Minister said a few days ago that this new ordination was based on the need to create a balance between the public interest and the private interest. It's like one side of the coin. The second - through the Sejm passed a package of laws on business rights a few months ago. You said it was a business constitution. You have appointed a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to protect the interests of these entrepreneurs. Great, you'd think so. There is a business constitution, a new Tax Order, spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And then boom! We have a new project that assumes a waiver of the right to sue an account lock. At the same time, these changes actually result in a complete lack of control as regards the demand for a blockade. This violates three fundamental constitutional principles: the principle of trust in the citizen, Article. 2 of the Constitution therefore, Article. 78 - the right to challenge, and the principle of proportionality. I talked about it when I first read it. And that is not my private opinion, because it also sounded quite clear in the committee meeting. My opinion has been confirmed by the Legislative Bureau. By the way, the Minister of Entrepreneurship also reported doubts earlier. And what did the spokesperson of a small and medium-sized entrepreneur say? Nothing, there's no time, because he's in the furniture business of his office. That's what we heard in our mouths... [[It's outrageous.]] ...Mr. Chairman. He was invited, but he didn't show up. And what will he say about what a taxpayer will do, who will not be able to settle his obligations and will not even know about it? What will a taxpayer do, to whom an account has been blocked by mistake, through which regular orders have been executed, e.g. on the rent and subsequent rent, will the contract be terminated? Neither the spokesperson nor the finance minister nor the PiS really cares. Thank you very much. Of course, we will vote against because of the unconstitutionality of this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u353	Thank you, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Grabowski, on behalf of the Kukiz-15 club. But I don't see your MP. There is also no Paulina Hennig-Kloski from the Modern Club, so we are moving to the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats. Ms Genowef Tokarska will be speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee, in print no. 2626 and 2700. The draft law includes provisions on the blocking of eligible entities' accounts. It introduces far-reaching constraints, especially for entrepreneurs, and at the same time provides for new, extensive responsibilities for financial institutions, banks and SKOKs. The definition of the eligible entity's account has been extended, including the fixed-term deposit account and the VAT account resulting from the Act introducing the split payment mechanism. The most important element of the project is the abolition of the possibility to challenge the blocking of the eligible entity's account for a period of 72 hours and to challenge the limitation of the scope of that blockade. Only a provision to extend the period of blockade for a period of up to 3 months may be challenged. The examination of this project at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance did not bring about significant substantive changes. The votes of the opposition and the request not to analyse or debate this project without the presence of the appointed spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises in this discussion, as well as a representative of the Minister of Finance in the rank of Secretary or Undersecretary of State. Following numerous comments from the Legislative Bureau, a number of changes were made in order and legislative terms. The substantive issues were only amended by the provision on the transmission by banks and SKOKs of information on the IP addresses of qualified entities, which will only occur at the request of the Head of National Tax Administration, and it was established - as if the second change - a uniform date for all categories of banks and SKOKs, on 31 August 2018, the start of the transfer of information on the VAT account. There are still many questions about the protection of honest entrepreneurs in particular. We agree, of course, that tax frauds must be prosecuted, but mistakes with 72-hour lockdowns will certainly occur, and so what? Art. 119zv § 4a reads, I will quote it literally: The bank or the cooperative credit and savings bank shall not disclose to the qualified entity information about the transfer of the claim or the blocking of the account of the eligible entity. This provision, as a form of system sealing and tracing fraud, is extremely harmful also for honest entrepreneurs, and also undermines the authority of the bank, which is supposed to pretend to be mute. In terms of billing, above all banking, everything should be clear, clear, and banks are institutions of public trust. What happens to a client, an entrepreneur that the bank doesn't do, e.g. the payment of the security at the tender or will it not carry out a standing order which it systematically executes at the request of its client? We find these restrictions unacceptable. The bank has no right to provide information about the blockade, and the client is to be the default here, and at any time the National Tax Administration, its boss, can block his account. We cannot therefore support this project as the Polish People's Party - European Democrats' Club. This interference is too far away, unconstitutional, endangers the security of honest entrepreneurs and banks themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u355	Thank you very much, Member. If one of your fellow Members wishes to join the list of questions, please, if not, I will close the list. You are beginning Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Some of the laws that we are improving today came into force 2 months ago, i.e. once again at the stage of writing the laws, the rulers showed their shortsightedness. You won't be able to sue a 72-hour account lock. The account can be blocked from the vending machine without prior notice. These changes give rise to serious concerns about the situation of the Polish entrepreneur, for example. is not a friendly ruling option. Let me just remind you of the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki from six months ago: Small and medium-sized enterprises are our eyes. We want to make life easier for them in terms of their relationship with the tax authorities. Are you sure this is the case in this Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u357	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Listening to the speaker's voice, I find that the government wants to help small entrepreneurs, but the little honest ones, and this is only about the exceptions that will be less and less in the future. [[An honest piss guy.]] In connection with this law, I wanted to ask the Minister whether a 72-hour period would be sufficient for the head of the KAS to properly secure the interests of the State Treasury. The second question is that entrepreneurs have several accounts they use for payment in their business, but only one of them is reported to the tax office. Does the government foresee how to make sure that he has knowledge of all accounts so that in such difficult cases he can do the right thing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u359	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we discussed the provisions of this draft law very closely for more than 3 hours. Many questions were answered by the Legislative Office, Minister, because you were in a significant part of the meeting, Mr Director, and there was no problem, the charge which you had made to the President in your club speech, the unconstitutionality of this project. Are there any areas that would give reason to believe that the project contains non-constitutional elements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u361	And the last question at this point will be asked by Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I actually have three questions. First: In what form will the head of the National Tax Administration block funds? To date, this has been in the form of a provision for which a complaint was due in the legal procedure. Second question: Will the National Tax Administration be held responsible for possible errors in the blocking of the resources of entrepreneurs? Will the trader claim compensation, compensation for error only on a judicial basis, suing whom - the bank or the National Tax Administration? Third. I was hoping that today there would be a spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, by the way, a very sympathetic Member of Lublin land, just like me. I wanted to ask him if he would warn his subjects that they couldn't be naive, that they had to be guessed that something might not be paid and that no one would tell them. He should inform, I think, the entrepreneurs, whether to tell them or not what laws the Law and Justice Government has given them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u363	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Silchoń... I haven't given you the floor yet, so please don't take the floor. Whose speech do you want to correct? Sit down, I'll give you the floor, but after the answer was given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza. There you go. You don't have to name names, you just have to address them. That's how it's written in the rules. This proposal will therefore be taken into account, but after the Minister's statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u364	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to apologize again for my partial absence from the committee meeting last night. This was due, as I said, to reasons entirely independent of me, related to the responsibilities of the Financial Supervision Authority. Ladies and gentlemen! The first question is whether there was a comment on the rejected amendment which appeared at the committee meeting. This is not the result of legislative negligence or any mistake in the bill. It is about introducing an additional possibility to use this system, which was created in the National Chamber of Settlements, for the purposes of the banking system, so that the infrastructure created works not only to combat tax fraud or tax offences, but also in other related areas such as. money laundering or bank fraud. In this respect, this amendment must be assessed by the government from the point of view of the extent to which these additional analyses would concern whether the KIR could analyse data collected from banks or publicly available data, as well as the time at which such possibility should be available to the clearing house and indirectly to banks in the context of progress in the fight against VAT fraud. It is important that these functionalities do not cause collisions and that we have a clear path of action, where the priority is, of course, to counter VAT fraud. So this is not a legislative problem or a problem with the need for another amendment, it is a decision that we believe requires government procedure. A question about a small taxpayer. I understand that you are concerned about the liquidity of small taxpayers. This, of course, is also the subject of our concern. This system is to be used as an exception to the exception and it is a tool, it can be said, in a sense, definitive in a situation where the system reports a number of subsequent financial flows which are symptomatic for the flow of these funds abroad. It is at this point, just before the money flows abroad and the loss of control over it, that a lock-in instrument can finally be applied, so here really there is no risk for a small taxpayer, here is the chance to clear our economic space from these pseudo-taxpayers, pseudo-entrepreneurs, who had previously put a small average taxpayer at risk of getting involved in the VAT carousel. And this unfortunately has been happening for many years, and this small average taxpayer unfortunately today, having fiscal, criminal and treasure proceedings, has a problem due to the State's passivity in this area in previous years. Will 72 hours be enough to assess the taxpayer or the accounts for the risk of tax fraud? They'll have to do. This kind of timespace is provided for in various other laws, such as money laundering. There is a little bit more time there, but thanks to the new analytical possibilities, thanks to the data from the JPK submitted by taxpayers every month, we have much better analytical possibilities, from the point of view of their duration. On the one hand, these 72 hours must suffice, and on the other hand, placing these locks will be much more precise due to the data range and the quality of the analyses. A question about the multiple accounts with the taxpayer. On the one hand, the STIR system allows us to see every day all the accounts of entrepreneurs, the savings and settlement accounts of entrepreneurs, how they change, how they are assumed, how they are eliminated, we see it during the day, so it is a significant improvement in the awareness of the tax authorities in relation to what was before, and this is a certain advantage of this system - the rate of transmission and quality of these accounts data, on the other hand I would like to say that soon there will be a White Letter Act, which also - like the Czech Republic, which many years ago introduced a system of disclosure of all business accounts - improves the safety of business turnover, the security of accounts, when we all just know who is using the account, and there are no understatements of the type of transfers to just established account outside the Treasury radar. It's a constitutional question. I would like to say that these solutions may not even be modelled as much as they are calculators for anti-money laundering solutions. And this is a profiled carbon, i.e. dedicated to this problem of VAT fraud, tax fraud. I would like to remind you that anti-money laundering solutions are modelled on a directive, they have never been challenged from a constitutional point of view, although they have been in force for many, many years, and these mechanisms - there is no appeal from the blockade - they have never been challenged from a constitutional point of view, and they also fulfil their role in clearing financial space from such harmful transactions, transfers, flows. Question about the legal form of the head of the KAS. This is an unnamed legal act, but it is subject to reporting to a prosecutor who has an immediate insight into this situation and an immediate opportunity to assess the correctness of that decision, its protective action. Of course, the real liquidity loss of the entrepreneur by extending the rapid blockade for the next 3 months is subject to full judicial protection, through a judicial assessment of this administrative action. Of course, a blockage for 3 months is the element that should be in accordance with this law - and is - judged by the courts, because it actually leads to real liquidity damage. One more comment about the blockade process itself - thanks to this system, thanks to the knowledge of the number of bank accounts held by the taxpayer concerned, we can lock all accounts that are registered with the entity in question. This means that such action is in a sense much more effective than in the case of single queries as to whether a taxpayer has a bank account, which unfortunately has been a problem for many years in the past. This system allows for precise and effective prevention of money removal from the Polish financial system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u365	Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? Do you want to speak again, sir, or not? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After all, I wanted to thank all the clubs very warmly for their active work on a small, but very important project for the Polish financial system, which lasts over 3 hours. There was an allegation here that the amendment had been withdrawn during the committee's deliberations. It is the committee that is the right place where, as a result of the consultation, we have heard the representatives of the government, the lawyers from the Legislative Office, we come to a consensus, and we are therefore submitting the draft to the High House that has already been refined. And for this activity, for working at the level of the finance committee, thank you very much to all the members of the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform, on the issue of correction. There you go, sir. You have one minute to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I'm gonna talk really short. The issue is, in my opinion, very important. It seems that the President did not mention in his memory that the Legislative Office raised the issue of constitutionality of the blockade, indicating that it was violating fundamental constitutional principles. I suggest you listen to or read the minutes of the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u369	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws (prints 2333 and 2687). The committee report will be presented to Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, print no. 2333 and 2687. The proposed law aims to improve the legal environment of public-private partnerships in Poland, and the most important changes to the rules are aimed at introducing solutions which respect important public and private interests to enable effective preparation of public-private partnerships projects. As part of the committee work, an emergency subcommittee was set up, which worked on 8 May and 6 and 7 June. The Commission has addressed all the proposed amendments in detail. In the course of its work, the committee accepted and took account of amendments of an order nature. The whole economic committee then met on 2 July. Following the examination of the draft on that date, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u371	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Waldemar Olejniczak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honor as a representative of the Law and Justice Club to present to the High House an opinion on the draft Public-Private Partnership Act, print No 2333. This draft consists of proposals for 13 laws from different legal fields. As the name suggests, it is the Public-Private Partnership Act. This is a very important, responsible bill because it allows for close cooperation of private companies with public and public sector entities at business level. So far, despite the fact that the law already in force has been beneficial for all, the application of its records has been very unpopular. This law lays down rules so that both the official and the entrepreneur have a clear and secure legal framework in which they can and should move without the risk of conflict with the law. The main objective of this law is to enable contracts to be concluded consisting in the division of responsibilities and the financial burden of the public sector to the benefit of a private entity, but not to exempt it from liability and supervision. In the case of such an agreement, the public sector makes investments without financial investment or with a very small symbolic effort, and the whole financial burden is taken over by the investor. In a word, this is the allocation of economic competence to a private entity, i.e. he makes investments from his own funds, and the investor, the public sector, takes over only administrative competence, i.e. supervising. Let me give you an example: building a multi-storey parking lot with private funds later using it for 30 years, which gave the investor a return on the costs incurred. This law is very necessary and beneficial, both for the state, public and economic sectors, because thanks to this law the public sector has a chance to so-called. A quick leap to the future, because it can implement both these smaller and multi-billion-dollar investments without engaging its own resources. This gives a chance for a very large development, even an explosion of investment, because the private sector has funds that are willing to invest under rational conditions, especially since - as we know - many municipalities are already on the verge of statutory debt and will probably be forced to use this law. This law is also an opportunity for the Polish economy and Polish companies, because it opens new investment horizons to them, which consequently stimulates the economy, eliminates unemployment and, what is important, because they are mostly long-term investments, they create such a company so-called. positive economic stabilisation ballast. The basic objectives of the Act are: to relieve the budgets of public entities in the investment phase by providing financing for private entities; to ensure better quality of services and the infrastructure provided, as we know, it will be in the interest of the contractor to make quality optimal, because he will be its administrator, i.e. the user for many years; to implement innovative solutions for the construction, maintenance or provision of services and can be implemented in different ways; to define and develop friendly rules for the use of the public-private partnership formula; to raise public-private partnership awareness as an equivalent alternative method for providing high-quality public infrastructure and services. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomes this law and asks the High House to accept and adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u373	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will ask Mrs Anna Nemś to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, print No 2333. The proposed law aims to improve the legal environment of PPPs in Poland, to increase interest in this formula, and to adapt the law to the Act of June 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! From the beginning of 2009 to 2017, 490 procedures were opened to conclude a PPP or concession agreement, of which 380 are unique procedures. At the end of this period 116 contracts were concluded, only 116 contracts, mostly in the area of sport and tourism. The average number of proceedings opened during the whole period 2009 to 2016 is around 50. Unfortunately, in 2017 there are only 20 of these proceedings, it is a drastic decline. The same unique procedures on average until 2016 were around 40, and in 2017 - already 16. You can see that this form of cooperation is being extinguished. Unfortunately, this is very disturbing. The new philosophy of public management is to privatise the performance of public tasks. In this way there is liberalisation of many markets so far dominated by the State, to which access is now obtained by another competitor: national or foreign. The distribution of tasks, responsibilities and risks in PPPs achieves the most cost-effective way to deliver public services. Each side, as its predecessors have said, benefits from this. In the UK, PPPs account for 15% all investments. Unfortunately, in Poland, the most popular form of obtaining additional capital by JST for investments is still municipal bonds, where debt is already more than 10 billion. Unfortunately, interest, as I have just presented, for private PPPs is falling. Of course, we would like to encourage private actors to enter into cooperation, so we propose a few changes to this law that would serve this purpose. In the 1st amendment, we offer the possibility for a public entity to request an opinion on the appropriateness of the PPP project not only to the Minister responsible for regional development but also to the Marshal of the region responsible for the seat of the entity concerned. In the next amendment in Article. Paragraph 7 5 We propose to change the word "conditions" to "rules." The concept of conditions may be interpreted too narrowly as an indication of the conditions, not necessarily including restrictions on the fixing of new charges. In the next amendment, in order to improve the safety of PPP subcontractors, we propose that the entities considered to be an investor under the proposed Article. Article 7b (7) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 were also obliged to apply the arrangements provided for in the interest of subcontractors in the public sector. We also propose to modify the article. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4, which more clearly defines the liability of the entity. In the next amendment, we say that the private partner shall report to the public at least every three months on the implementation of the project. The detailed reporting procedure is, of course, defined by the PPP agreement. We would also like the Minister responsible for regional development to report on the implementation of PPP tasks not only to the Council of Ministers but also to the Parliamentary Committee. That's what happens, for example. in the case of economic zones. I think it is not a great burden for the Committee of the Economy to receive such reports. We propose, in the last amendment, the deletion of the article. 16. The distinction of PPPs in the CBA law in our reasoning is really wrong, unnecessary and creates a bad atmosphere that we now want to avoid. We want to encourage and create a bad atmosphere around this kind of activity. Let us ask ourselves whether these proposed provisions are sufficient to increase interest. It seems that for today, although we all wish there was as much interest as possible, it is very difficult. Hoping that our amendments [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll get your approval, I'll hand them over to your marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u375	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Mirosław Pampuch to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, prints no. 2333 and 2687. There is no doubt that there has been a very low level of public investment in public-private partnerships both now and in the past. Both local authorities and entrepreneurs have repeatedly argued that the procedure for concluding public-private partnerships should be made significantly more flexible. It's not without a fennel that PPPs are three letters. And this is where the Member has already pointed out. The fact that this law is being implemented does not necessarily serve to create a good climate in the implementation of these agreements. However, given this legislative proposal, which amends both the Public-Private Partnership Act and a number of other laws, a total of 19, we can also point out a number of provisions which significantly lead to the flexibility of the contract process in the framework of the Public-Private Partnership. I'll point out, for example. introducing the possibility of creating a partnership on the basis of an existing public entity company. This has not been possible so far. At the moment, these laws allow it. So I understand that the legislator is concerned that there may also be a temporary privatisation of a specific public service sector. This option will certainly reduce the costs of the public-private partnership agreement itself. Local governments also find in this law a provision which allows them to count grants directly to investment costs, which is important from the point of view of local government units, because the Public Finance Act contains expenditure rules, art. 142, which says that current expenditure cannot be greater than current income. Thus, in a very large number of local government units, the lack of the possibility of a direct grant to property expenditure caused that such a procedure by local government units was not considered. Also in the Act we find provisions introducing the possibility of signing a contract in the PPP formula by a company intentionally created by an entrepreneur whose offer was considered the most advantageous. Of course, this condition will meet a number of conditions designed to protect the public entity's interests. It also introduces the possibility, which must also be considered as positive, to amend contractual provisions in relation to the content of the offer on the basis of which the choice of a private partner was made, and to correlate the possibility of amending the contract with the provisions of the Public Procurement Law and the Law on a concession contract. In the current legal situation, if the concession process was initiated under the concession law, it was not possible to move to the Public Procurement Act. This really makes the contract process much easier. Unfortunately, at the end of the day, a little bit in this barrel of honey. Unfortunately, these procedures for selecting a private partner remain time-consuming and costly. I'm hoping that this bill might bring investment back to life, but with the rules so formulated... Unfortunately, not all of these provisions allow for such a very rational approach [[♪ The bell ♪]] to conclude these agreements both by the private sector and by local authorities. But in general, the Modern Posel Club evaluates this project positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u377	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska will present her position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act and some other laws, prints Nos 2333 and 2687. The Polish legal system has been operating for 10 years - but it must be said that without a greater effect - the Public-Private Partnership Act of 19 December 2008. This debated project is updating this law, as well as 19 other laws. In general, it is intended to improve the legal environment of public-private partnerships and remove the shortcomings that limit the emergence of PPPs. The PPP formula is quite widespread in many countries, unfortunately it has not yet worked in our Polish conditions. In 10 years only 116 entities operating on the basis of public-private partnership have been established in Poland. The proposed law aims to introduce legal solutions that will enable the efficient preparation and better implementation of infrastructure projects in the PPP formula. The aim is to increase the degree of private capital involvement in the implementation of public investment and services in Poland. One of the most important changes made is that any investment made by the State budget of more than PLN 300 million, which is not financed by Union funds, will be mandatory at an early stage of the preparatory work, is analysed as to its feasibility in the PPP formula. That's so-called. PPP test. This analysis will then be the subject of the opinion of the Minister for Regional Development. In addition, any public entity will be able to ask the Minister for Regional Development for an opinion on the planned project, regardless of the size of the planned investment. It's so-called. certification. The project introduces an obligation to analyse the effectiveness of the implementation of the project in the PPP formula and introduces rules to facilitate monitoring of this market and to enable projects to be carried out on the basis of existing public entity companies. The project allows local authorities to grant special grants to private partners to finance investments related to the implementation of local tasks. At present, such grants are only admissible for non-profit-making entities. The project provides for a limit on the expenditure of the state budget related to the financial performance of the Act of less than PLN 17 million, and the government assumes that by 2020 100 new contracts will be signed in the form of a public-private partnership. The project provides and describes in very detail, is quite extensive, conduct and activities conducive to the emergence of actors in the public-private partnership formula. You'd want them to be effective and functional. It would be very good if such projects would appear more courageously on the Polish market. My club, the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u379	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We begin with Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a fan of public-private partnerships, but it is a pity that local governments are so rarely using it. Two questions. Perhaps they will help in some way. The public-private market research that I was able to reach resulted - although perhaps it was not the latest research - that more than 40% surveyed entrepreneurs have not heard of the possibility of investing in public-private partnerships at all. Did the Ministry consider, as part of the statutory changes or in the course of these changes, the possibility of carrying out an information campaign in order to reach out to entrepreneurs and provide them with the opportunity to invest in a public-private partnership? Second question. Self-governments are afraid to conclude public-private partnership agreements. Is it considered to set up a body - or entrust it to an existing body - for the verification and verification of public-private partnership agreements, so that it can be sure that the agreement is concluded on favourable terms and in such a way that the local government is not concerned about concluding such agreements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u381	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public-Private Partnership formula builds the District Hospital in Żywiec. The private partner is a Canadian company, which only after signing the agreement took loans to banks for this investment, as a mortgage security indicating the property of the State Treasury introduced by the partnership agreement by the District Starostwo Powiatowe w Żywiec. These are all buildings that are still functioning in a hospital that no longer meets any of the requirements laid down in the regulations. In addition to real estate collateral, banks requested from a private partner other safeguards, including the guarantee of an extended contract with the National Health Fund, which after the construction of the hospital had been transferred to a new management entity. Such guarantees were not obtained. The agreement was signed on 15 September 2011. Construction of snails, and the old hospital collapses and can be closed. I would therefore ask you to determine whether this comprehensive law amending the Public-Private Partnership Act will facilitate the implementation of already implemented investments and their subsequent functioning. What guarantees do partners have regarding the contract with the National Health Fund? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this bill gonna make it better? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u383	The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is intended in principle to improve the legal environment of PPP investments. The legal environment is also tax law. Very many investors, but also local government, local government units, pointed to restrictions on interpretations concerning the tax on goods and services. Many tax authorities, as well as administrative courts, unfortunately indicate that the tax on goods and services must be paid after the end of the investment, and that the public-private entity recovers the debts associated with the execution of such an investment only in instalments relating to the maintenance of the investment. I would like to know the Minister's opinion on whether the Minister would consider introducing a provision in a law that would definitely cut the question when we are dealing with the performance of the service. The public-private partnership investment is a comprehensive investment, so taxation only takes place when the rent payments are charged in connection with this comprehensive investment and not with the fact that the investment is put into use, because then we do not have any revenue under the investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will certainly reduce the costs of implementing this investment and, if it were in the law, also improve such legal certainty regarding the investments being carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u385	Mrs Sophia... Excuse me, Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u386	Minister! As we have all said here, we would like PPPs in Poland to function as in England, Spain. I think it's a little far from that. It is very good that a report has been produced, which shows how this has been going since the very beginning. When I look at this data, it's just a fact that I'd like to ask. All pending proceedings in 2016 were 60, in 2015 - 61, 52. In 2017, there were 20 pending proceedings. Unique proceedings, i.e. those which did not repeat, were in 2017 16. In previous years it was 40, 47, 50, 65. Minister! Tell me what it's like this year because we're over the first six months. Do you have the data for this six-month period, and can you tell us what the trend is? If this continues at the 2017 level, it will be as if we were shutting out PPPs in Poland. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u387	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I remember that time when the Sejm passed the Public-Private Partnership Act. Then both local governments, where I worked at the time, and some entrepreneurs hoped that this form of investment would develop. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Many factors have influenced this. In general, there is a very low involvement of private capital in public investment. Undoubtedly legal barriers, bad examples that have been raised here, but also generally bad atmosphere around this form of investment, distrust, suspicion, excessive controls, as no one has yet started anything - I think these are some of the main factors of such lack of development of private capital investments. Only 116 contracts for nearly 10 years for the amount of PLN 5.8 billion - all this speaks for itself. I have a question: How many contracts and equity are self-government investments in this number of contracts? I believe that local governments have the greatest opportunity to invest in this form. How do you judge that? How can we help local governments to ensure that this form, which has already survived the crisis, can be such an effective form again? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u389	Thank you very much. The last question at this point will be asked by Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to draw attention to other barriers, in my opinion, which are more objective, which prevent the implementation of tasks in the PPP formula in Poland. Entrepreneurs themselves once told me that in this squad is still the fourth P, that was already raised today, which is the prosecutor. Furthermore, I think that the high rate of change in tax law, in the corporate organisation system, creates uncertainty and does not encourage investment at all. After all, private investments in Poland have slowed down very strongly. Recently, I have come across research that has been carried out in the European Commission in the area of financial and economic uncertainty among corporate financial directors. And what did it turn out to be? Poland belongs to a group of countries where the level of uncertainty is very high. As much as 46% the financial directors surveyed in Poland showed a high level of uncertainty. The higher indicator concerned only directors in Italy. My question, therefore, is whether the government is considering such a possibility that this reluctance to the PPP formula is not on the technical or organisational side of the instrument, and it is more likely that this is the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the general fiscal policy of the state and perhaps complicated economic and financial law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u391	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr Witold Słowik for an answer to this and previous questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that there have been many questions, which show that there is still great interest and emotions in the public-private partnership. I will try to answer all questions, or at least most of them, as far as possible. The first question concerned a small knowledge of the principles of public-private partnership among local governments and, in general, among entrepreneurs, about the possibilities of promoting public-private partnerships and whether there are statutory provisions in this regard. I wanted to say that the Ministry of Investment and Development, and earlier the Ministry of Development, has been running a wide promotional campaign for over a year, a training campaign. To date, some 1600 people have been trained, they are largely self-government, but there have also been special trainings dedicated to control authorities, including one CBA-dedicated training - CBA employees have been trained to have as much knowledge as possible in this field as possible. [[This training will improve PPPs.]] I hope so, because the control bodies must have knowledge, too. Besides, the CBA officers were very well prepared for this training. On the other hand, as far as the provisions on the promotion of public-private partnerships are concerned, we have in Article. 16a. 2 entries indicating that the responsibility of the Minister responsible for PPPs will be inter alia. dissemination and promotion of good practices and analysis of the state and financial perspectives of the PPP sector in Poland. So we also have these records. As regards the actual activities to promote and approximate PPPs, there are provisions on certification, i.e. a public entity that will be interested in carrying out a given project in the PPP formula, it will be able to ask the Ministry of Investment and Development to issue a certificate of the project and experts will examine the validity of the project, the economic and financial aspect. So this will certainly be helpful in preparing PPP projects and will give greater certainty, in particular to local authorities, as to the appropriateness of the chosen way of implementing a given project in the PPP formula. The next element is the formulas of contracts. The Ministry of Investment and Development is currently preparing draft agreements, because one of the reasons for the low effectiveness of concluding negotiations with the agreement is that often the partners, when entering into negotiations, do not know exactly what they are trying to do, and at the moment this effectiveness is only twenty-six percent. For the purposes of government policy on the development of public-private partnerships in Poland, there is an indication that at least 40% the negotiations started were successful. I am convinced that developing model contracts will make the partners know from the very beginning what framework they operate in. Of course, these models of contracts will be voluntary, not mandatory, but I am convinced that at least in terms of estimation and risk sharing, it will be from the very beginning - at least, though - you know how this can be done. The next question concerned the interpretation of VAT and the introduction of regulations in this area into the Public-Private Partnership Act. I wanted to say that in December 2017. The Ministry of Finance has issued interpretations on VAT and at present there is no doubt about VAT settlement. These interpretations from a private investor's point of view are beneficial. There are no longer, as before, different interpretations, and some of them spoke of the necessity of a de facto double payment of VAT: once when the investment was finished within the meaning of the construction process, it was insectified and then the availability fees were charged if it was carried out in the form of accessibility charges. At present, VAT is only paid once and this is clear from this interpretation. The following question concerned the reasons why there were fewer pending proceedings in 2016 and, in fact, in 2017. I would like to point out that the amendment of the Law on concessions was being examined in 2016 and 2017. Due to this process, some entities abstained from the initiation of proceedings, because most public-private partnerships in Poland are concluded on the basis of the law on works concessions or services. There was also a question about data for the first half of 2018. We do not have such data at present - it is 4 July - but we are monitoring the PPP market and in the coming weeks we will have such data. We have set up monitoring on a six-month basis, with two sets of data published on our website as part of market promotion and monitoring. One set is a list of existing public-private partnerships. On this list there are 117 existing contracts worth less than PLN 6 billion. The second list, on the other hand, is potential projects in the form of public-private partnerships. There are currently one hundred and fifty projects on this list, of which at least a few dozen are already in the process of selecting a private partner. This list is treated as a public sector offer to the private sector, which is also a big promotional element when potential private companies, potential partners in one place can find the entire public sector offer, covering both the local government sector and the government sector. At the same time, we wanted to point out that among others. Thanks to our actions, the quality of the proceedings is improved and more procedures end with the conclusion of the agreement. The next question was quite detailed, concerning the proceedings in Żywiec and the reasons why this procedure has not been completed so far. We will try to investigate this case and respond in detail. On the other hand, the revision of the Public-Private Partnership Act and a number of other laws, nineteen, is aimed at removing barriers to the development of public-private partnerships. I hope that such situations and lengthy proceedings will be less and less. Another question was the bad atmosphere around the public-private partnership. It seems to me that here we are partly based on the common understanding of public-private partnership rather than on the statutory understanding. In the common sense, any economic agreement which combines the public and private sectors is understood as a public-private partnership and is not in the statutory sense. Indeed, in this connection, especially in the 1990s, there were a number of agreements that caused these negative stereotypes, but in my opinion they were largely overcome. In the Responsible Development Strategy in the area: Development capital is a special subsection dedicated to the public-private partnership, with a clear indication that public-private partnership is an equivalent source of funding for our country's development, in line with budgetary resources, grant funds or other sources of funding. Thus, already in the most important strategy paper is a clear indication of the development of public-private partnerships. In July Ub. The government adopted a public-private partnership development policy setting out very ambitious objectives for its development. It has been pointed out that by 2020 100 new public-private partnerships are to be concluded, at least 10 government-private partnerships are to be launched and 40% are to be launched. the proceedings initiated are to end with the conclusion of a contract. Fourth objective, most ambitious - 5% Public budget expenditure is to be implemented in 2020 through the implementation of the public-private partnership formula. The government is therefore trying to create the best possible atmosphere for the development of public-private partnerships. It also served to re-activate the Public-Private Partnership Team, which, with broad consensus, with the use of public-private partnership experts active on the market, with the participation of local governments, the government sphere, developed the principles of government policy in the development of public-private partnerships. Thus, this policy was created with a broad social consensus and broad arrangements. Also what we are currently looking at, i.e. the amendment of the Public-Private Partnership Act and 19 other laws, was created with a broad consensus, as a result of the long-term work of experts who first identified barriers to the development of public-private partnerships in Poland, and then prepared laws to eliminate these barriers. I hope that the adoption of this law will eliminate at least a significant part of these barriers. In addition, as part of the promotion of public-private partnerships, with my and my colleagues' participation, there is a very large number of articles in various types of press, including in the specialist press, to promote this model. I personally participate in a huge number of conferences, in various types of panels promoting public-private partnerships. Therefore, I hope that as Prime Minister Morawiecki wishes, the fourth P will become the history of Mon. The prosecutor and will be replaced by universality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law serves to ensure that public-private partnerships are as universal as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u393	Thank you, Minister. After that, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959 (prints Nos 2546 and 2632). Mrs Barbara Bartus will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959 and contained in print No 2632. The bill entered the Sejm on 11 May this year. and concerns the determination of the legal situation of the assets, assets and activities of the Council of Europe Development Bank and the legal status of the Bank's bodies and its officers. As Minister Piotr Walczak said at the joint committee meeting, ratification of this protocol is important from the point of view of the Council of Europe Development Bank, which also provides loans to Poland. Since Poland's accession in 1998, it approved loans to Polish entities for a total amount of nearly PLN 5 billion. Poland is one of the main borrowers of the Bank. Among other things, local governments and banks and financial institutions benefit from funding. The Council of Europe Development Bank was involved, among others. in projects for the promotion of rent building, restructuring of coal mining in the Silesian region and currently contributing to the financing of flood protection of the Oder and Vistula basin. As part of its ratification, Poland intends to reserve that it reserves the right not to guarantee exemption from tax on income derived from interest on bonds or loans issued by the Bank. This is due to our desire to reduce tax concessions and to treat entities and institutions operating in the country equally and not to undermine the State Treasury as an issuer of securities. The commitment to the Third Protocol shall not have direct financial consequences. Indirect effects may arise in the event of redemptions and reimbursements of indirect taxes included in the price purchased by the Bank of goods and services. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commissions: Public Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice and Human Rights, following their first reading and examination of the project on 13 June 2018, shall request that the draft Print Act No 2546 annexed to the report be approved without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u395	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dominik Tarczyński will be the first position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Act on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement. It is very important what we heard from the rapporteur at the committee meeting. Firstly, that this protocol will not be adopted without reservation, i.e. Poland will raise objections and the right to object to non-compliance with the protocol, it is Article. 7. This is very important, protocol, if we don't mention it, we won't have to apply it. It is also very important what we have heard that Poland's association with the Third Protocol will not have direct financial consequences. I think that's the most important thing. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My club, the Law and Justice Club, will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u397	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Marta Golbik will present her position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u398	Thank you, Marshal. The proposed law aims at agreeing to ratify the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe under the ratification procedure, in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 points 3 and 5 of the Constitution. The Council of Europe Development Bank provides funding for projects of high social importance in the Member States and related technical knowledge, actively promoting social cohesion and strengthening social inclusion in Europe. It is an important instrument of solidarity policy in Europe, participates in the financing of social projects, responds to crisis situations and contributes to improving living conditions in the Member States. The Bank is implementing investment projects through three sectoral orientations: sustainable and inclusive growth, the integration of refugees, displaced persons and migrants and climate action. It was originally created as a humanitarian instrument for helping refugees, but the growing diversity of Member States' needs in the social field has led to an extension of the scope of action both geographically and sectorally. Thus, while assistance for refugees, migrants and victims of natural or environmental disasters remains a statutory priority of the Council of Europe Development Bank, it is now increasingly contributing to strengthening social cohesion in Europe by supporting investment projects targeted, among others. supporting housing, creating, maintaining sustainable jobs, improving living conditions in rural and urban areas. The rapporteur mentioned that a very large part of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe focuses on Poland. I will mention here examples of the river basin or coal mining. Ratification by Poland of the protocol already in force means that the Republic of Poland will become its party, and all the more so should we do so. As parliamentarians, we have an obligation to play an active role in promoting the initiatives of the Council of Europe Development Bank at national level, and joining the signatories of the third protocol will provide a certificate of Poland's integration and cooperation with the Member States within the Council of Europe. In view of the above, joining the important mission carried out by the Council of Europe Development Bank should be a pure formality for Poland. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform states that we wish to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u399	Thank you, Member. Mr Wojciech Bakun, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. I don't see your MP. On behalf of the Club, Ms Cornelia Wróblewska made a written statement. And on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, Mrs Genowef Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u400	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up in Strasbourg on 6 March 1959, print No 2632. The first reading, as the rapporteur said, took place at a joint committee meeting. As far as the Council of Europe Development Bank itself is concerned, it is a financial instrument of the Council of Europe, involving 41 countries from 48 countries of the Council of Europe, without, inter alia. Russia, Ukraine, Austria, Great Britain. The activities of this bank relate to a number of immunities and privileges of similar scope to those adopted in the case of the diplomatic corps. The signing of the Protocol and its entry into force are in line with the principles and objectives of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards the Council of Europe. We belong to the bank since 1998. The bank is already financing our projects, and we have received loans in the amount of PLN 5 billion. Mr. Messengers, my previous speakers, have already told us what tasks to do. These are mainly self-government tasks, of a social nature. The Commission adopted the report in the form of a submission prepared by the government party. My club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u401	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, Mr Sylwester Khrushch also made a written statement. As there are no questions at this point and a representative of the Ministry, as well as the rapporteur said that they would not speak, I am closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni in relation to the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the Council of Europe. A number of immunities and privileges relate to the activities of the Council of Europe Development Bank. The ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on Privileges and Immunities shall be linked to the response and projects required to be implemented. Poland as a country must implement the declaration contained in the article of the Council of Europe Social Development Fund. The signing of this Protocol and its enforcement will be in line with the objectives and principles of our country's policy towards the Council of Europe. The ratification of this Protocol will determine the legal situation regarding all matters relating to the Council of Europe Development Bank. The whole essence of the government project is to increase cooperation between Poland on the international stage with other countries of the Council of Europe. First of all, our national interest is also being pursued, because our values and our strategic interests will be strengthened. Over many years, the Bank of Development of the Council of Europe has granted various budget loans to Poland, which cover various areas such as: flood protection of the Oder basin, mitigation of the effects of restructuring related to mining in Silesia or the promotion of rent building. Moreover, the binding of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe will not entail any financial burden for Poland. In addition, social impacts will also be important. This will facilitate the Bank's operation and thus foster processes such as supporting housing for low income people, creating and maintaining permanent jobs or improving urban and rural life. The protection of the environment or the protection of cultural and historical heritage forms part of the financing of the Council of Europe Development Bank and it is thanks to it that the development of these areas is so visible. The ratification of this protocol will make it clear that both the Council of Europe Development Bank and the authorised officers will benefit from a number of immunities and privileges in order to perform their functions effectively. Officers shall benefit from exemptions from taxes and customs duties, prohibitions and restrictions on entry and export and shall not be subject to immigration restrictions. Therefore, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Third Protocol to the General Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the Council of Europe, drawn up at Strasbourg on 6 March 1959, in print Nos 2546 and 2632. It concerns the determination of the legal situation of the assets, assets and activities of the Council of Europe Development Bank and the legal status of the bank's authorities and its officers. As a result, the Bank's activities will be linked to a number of immunities and privileges similar to those of the diplomatic corps. The draft ratification act is clearly in line with the Polish state right. This is the last of the six protocols that Poland should still ratify, and I hope that it will do so soon. The very fact that it has so far been signed by 31 countries demonstrates its high quality from the legal and international side as well as political side. Concerns raised with regard to Article. Paragraph 7 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a, i.e. The concession provided for in this provision concerning the income tax exemption on interest on issued bonds or loans taken up by the Fund, as well as the question of arbitration proceedings, does not raise our objections. Other countries also raised similar concerns. That is why I am pleased both with the whole club's desire to join this fine group of countries supporting the Council of Europe Development Bank. I sincerely hope that this step will bring us closer to this institution and facilitate our cooperation. I would also be delighted if the government's forecast to deepen our cooperation within the Council of Europe would come true in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u404	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws (print No 2638). I would like to ask the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek Grybarczyk, to present the justification for the bill. Oh, I see there's been a change of person and it's going to be Minister Anna Moscow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the Water Law Act results from several months of experience in implementing Water Law and Labour of Polish Waters since 1 January this year. The project takes into account the voices of entities cooperating with Polish Waters, mainly entrepreneurs. The amendment is a strictly sequencing and reducing burden, mainly administrative, on the part of economic operators. First of all, we are converting the form of water management control from the charging system to the quarterly declaration of entrepreneurs, which will significantly facilitate the collection of fees, but also reduce the control burden on these operators. In addition, we depart from charging up to 20 PLN so that we do not initiate proceedings and generate additional costs. One of the most important changes is the possibility of continuing existing contracts with entities without the need for a tender. This makes it particularly efficient for tourism services during the tourist season, when cooperation can continue. In addition, it is important to remove the obligation to have a water permit in the case of temporary locating, up to 180 days, construction facilities in areas of special risk of flooding, e.g. a box of fries or other small objects that are found in a flooded belt. From other major changes we add a provision that will result in the obligation to submit a single dossier. In the event that water permit activities cover the scope of several regions, one single dossier can be submitted in one place and several applications cannot be dealt with in parallel. And a slight change: removing the obligation related to the State Water Management of Polish Waters to publish in the local press information about the initiation of proceedings, which will reduce costs, but also speed up proceedings. There is also a provision ordering the prohibition of rainwater entering groundwater and the prohibition of rainwater containing substances particularly harmful to water equipment. These are the fundamental changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u406	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Zaremba will be the first to take the floor of a representative of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Club will, of course, support the draft amendment submitted by the government. As mentioned here, it is a project that clarifies and regulates the Law of 20 July 2017. Water law as regards the details that came out simply during its application. Additional formal barriers, tightenings and restrictions on the ecological part in relation to the exploitation of water are abolished, in particular what was mentioned, as underlined by the Minister. The ban on the emission of harmful substances in watercourses is clearly clarified, rules are laid down on permits for the creation and use of State Treasury real estate facilities, including water management. This amendment is needed, all the more so as many environments have signalled to the government that it is needed. As we have said, when adopting this law, we will be open and, in the course of its application, those comments which will come from the interested parties themselves, we will take into account what this project is exhausting. As I said, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government's submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u408	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Sibińska will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister was willing to say that you listened to the voices of the entrepreneurs. Certainly not those of Mazur, Minister, and not those who have been eliminated from the market because of the absence of a change in the article. 36, which, as we all remember, aroused a great deal of controversy and suspicion of wrong action when it comes to the adoption of this law. I would like to remind you that your Marshal has been asked by the Civic Platform to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify any irregularities related to the adoption of this law and to strange records that have been introduced in the unknown way and by whom. The main culprits of these provisions: the then Minister of Gajda, Mrs Paluch, who at such an express rate has followed this law, is not here today, and I would like to ask what they have to say. After all, there's still time for PiS to add that to the presentation of his position. You didn't listen to us at the time of this bill, and today you're making amendments. Such a significant example is, for example, the addition to the category of flood-grade structures. We made these amendments, but then you just threw them away, you didn't want to hear it at all. I read the justification. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame to even mention it, but there are such wordings that the aim of this amendment is to resolve the problem, to clarify that the error has to be addressed, to clarify, to eliminate interpretation doubts, to allow entities to continue their contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, we have really paid attention to all these things. Nobody listened to us, you didn't want to accept our amendments, and that's where this huge legal bullshit came out. I have already said several times that instead of Polish Waters, Polish swamp came out. That's what we should evaluate. And already such a really embarrassing statement in the explanatory statement is the record, here I quote: "The change will also result in the preservation of the image of Polish Waters as a reliable counterparty in the long term." Ladies and gentlemen, a truly better justification for this amendment could no longer be found. It's just... Polish waters did not even begin to operate. Let me remind you that the problems are even with correspondence, with staff equipment, because I'm not going to mention the employees themselves anymore. That's what happens. I would like to ask the Minister by the way - but I would also like to ask the marshals, because it will depend on the continued conduct of our club - on which committee this project will be addressed. I would like to remind you that the bill was examined and examined by the four committees which set up a special subcommittee. These were: the Committee on Public Finance, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. According to the Civic Platform Club, this amendment, which is quite extensive, should go to these four committees and a subcommittee should be set up on this. If your marshal's intentions are different and that's what we can expect, I'm already making a protest - and I would like it to be voted out - along with this proposal. We believe that this bill should go to these four committees I have mentioned. On this occasion, I would like to ask once again for information about the awards that Minister Gajda received, among others. For such an outrageous conduct of this bill. I'd like to ask for a written reply. How high did he get it? When? Where did he put it? Did he hand them over to charity? I think that this information to all those affected by this Water Law, who today have to bear the enormous costs involved, will be of interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u410	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz15, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u411	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz club15 against the government draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws, print no. 2638. The water law which the Sejm has adopted for this term of office has been in force for almost a year. From the beginning we have pointed out that it is bad for people, it contains many regulations which increase the cost of the use of water, water reservoirs and areas which are at the disposal of the company of State Waters of Poland. But in addition to increasing the cost of water use, this law introduced a number of regulations that hinder the economic activity of Poles. Therefore, this draft law on the reduction of formal rigour related to administrative procedures for the granting of water law consents and promises, limiting the requirement to submit data or documents held by the decision-making body, the Kukiz15 supports. The elimination of obligations related to the publication in the local press of information on the initiation of proceedings on the issue of water permits, the shortening of proceedings and the reduction of obligations of the Polish Water Farm conducting administrative proceedings on water permits we support in full. We also understand the prohibition on the introduction of rainwater into groundwater and the introduction of rainwater containing substances that are particularly harmful to water equipment, because it is an expression of genuine concern for the environment. We also support the reduction of interference of Polish Waters in the activities carried out by the plants and the reduction of burdens associated with, among others. with water management control at the premises. We support and other provisions concerning transparency of activities of Polish Waters e.g. when calculating the fee for water services and providing information to establishments in this respect. Thus, in support of the general direction of this law, we look forward to clarifying its rules when working in committee. At the same time, we stress that the Water Law Act still has too many restrictive regulations, so restrictive that it cannot be enforced by the beneficiary of this law, the State Water Farm of Poland. So we hope that they will not be repealed in the next amendment, but will certainly be relaxed. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u412	Thank you very much, too. Mr Marek Sowa will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Water Law Act. I very much regret that neither Prime Minister Beata Szydło is in the Chamber today, who personally assured that the Water Law was perfect, nor Mrs Anna Paluch, who, so to speak, forcefully and outrageously pushed this bill through the committee together with Minister Gaza. I regret that there is not a single Member of the Law and Justice. They've chickened out and they don't have the courage to face us here today... [[Voice from the hall: Shame just.]] ...and tell the Poles what they did with the new water system that was undoubtedly introduced under this law. Before I move on to the specific provisions that the Minister has spoken of here, I must refer to and share some reflection about the entire mechanism for implementing this law. I would like to remind you that during the work on the Water Law Act, which was adopted in July 2017, both myself and representatives of the Civic Platform Club have repeatedly, very often stressed and pointed out that the water system needs to be reformed, improved. But what you proposed was a simple path to disaster. You just paralyzed him. And that's the effect of today. The environments concerned expected effective changes in water planning, water management, water management and maintenance. Today they have no hope that the changes made will improve the existing state. Today, one year after the adoption of this law and six months of its validity, I regret to say that this worst-case scenario has been fulfilled. Water management under the new law does not exist, and the water management company Polskie water does not carry out its statutory tasks because it does not have a budget that would enable it to do so. I have monitored the whole process of implementing Water Law, I have submitted a great deal of interpellation in this area and I have to admit with pain that the first victims are employees of Polish Waters. Nearly 5.5 thousand employees of Polish Waters were simply impudently deceived. In 2016, the Minister of the Environment concluded an agreement with trade unions under which workers were to receive PLN 850 increases and their wages were to be close to PLN 4300 gross. Not only was the increase not triggered, but also, moreover, the average salary - this is the Ministry's response - in January this year. amounted to PLN 2740 gross for all employees. Employees from local government units who had higher salaries did not maintain these salaries. They were deprived of all allowances, on average about 850 PLN per employee. That's just the effect of your politics. You bought yourself the peace of the workers of the RZG in order to support the introduction of the new Water Law, and today they are the greatest victims. But it's not just money that's short of pay. The Polish waters do not have any budget for investments or for the maintenance of equipment at their disposal. Therefore, there are no Members of Law and Justice, because they know very well that no task, which is included in the scope of Polish Waters, is being carried out. Although it is July, there is still no work on the maintenance of water equipment, drainage ditches, watercourses, rivers or shafts. Nothing's preserved, mowed. I'm afraid to think what's gonna happen if there's a flood, what's gonna be a very negative effect. This is the effect of the changes made. Of course, I have to say that this change made... I have a few quotes written here, too, but I won't be able to read them. In your own explanatory statement, you simply acknowledge in a complicated language that you want to eliminate this legislative bullshit. So I will translate it into such a language maybe more understandable, Polish language, which should go to Poles. You want to eliminate the legislative slop we saw last year when the bill was being processed. You want to eliminate often mutually exclusive records. You're lowering the energy sector's fees a little bit. You're bringing it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a further amendment of the Article. 552. Of course, these changes are needed. You want them to come into force - I'm finishing up, your marshal - in the second quarter of 2018. I was going to say it's impossible because it's July, but I came back from the Supreme Court building today and I have to say that anything is possible for the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u414	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u415	It is enough that the quarter will be 4 months and then July quietly by the second quarter will catch up. This resolution would be as constitutional as shortening the first term of office of the Supreme Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u416	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, made a written statement. Similarly, Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his speech on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle in writing. Would any of you, your messengers and your fellow Members like to join the list? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Bańkowski's first question. But I don't see a Member from the Civic Platform. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are improving the Water Law Act. Let me quote the statement from the justification for today's changes. I quote: Practical application from 1 January of the provisions of the Water Law has shown that there are certain doubts and inconsistencies in the operation of environmental inspection bodies which make it difficult or even impossible for these authorities to carry out their tasks properly. That's what you write in the explanatory memorandum of this bill. In our country, under the PiS rule, we are a law full of chaos, mistakes, incompetence, not listening to comments. You've already forgotten how that bill was processed. I strongly support all the comments made by Mr Mark Owl. Due to the new Water Law, the procedures for granting building permits and environmental decisions, i.e. environmental impact assessments, are stalled. I will ask the question again: How many entities have applied for compensation for losses resulting from the implementation of the new inconsistent Water Law? And another question, because I can't wait to respond to the interpellation: Is there already a guarantee of means for demolishing Lake Żywiecki and at what stage [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there procedures? I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u418	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You guys write prolongates well.]] He's gonna ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! I would like to ask the Minister the question at which stage is balancing, estimates of expenditure and revenues, above all Polish Waters. But this seems to be an unobtrusive question, even in the light of previous speeches. However, I would like to remind you that at the same time in the Sejm we are currently proceeding with the amendment of the Act on Environmental Protection Inspection, where it is expected that at least 37 million Polish waters will be designated for environmental monitoring, which has not been carried out so far, concerning water, and this is indicated by NIK - Polish waters will have to pay to the municipalities the lost income for exemption from surface water taxes. And it's not what you're writing now, you're calculating -- because this year, for this year's sake, the funds will pay back -- that's PLN 1 million. PLN 1 million may have paid the funds so far, because the municipalities did not demand these refunds, because it was known that it was the cost of grants, support for other, own projects, but I think that in the case of Polish Waters they would not be so generous. I would like to ask: How do you generally imagine financing this water management sphere? ♪ 'Cause one misfortune is ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's water law, and the other is that it's in the Ministry of Transocean and Inland Shipping, because you don't have a concept of water management and sea and ocean sailing, and you're dealing with virtual ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u420	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! Minister! I'm sorry. Water Law is an example of creating bad law, full gaps, numerous interpretation doubts, inconsistencies and, above all, errors. This project is designed to eliminate and fix all of this - 28 changes. These changes won't fix the wrong bill. She's still gonna be mad. The only positive outcome of this project in my opinion is the reimbursement of the lost income of local government units due to the exemption from property tax under surface water, artificial tanks or lakes, because it was the money due to local governments and they were simply taken away by this previous law. But there are many more situations in which the law deprives the local authorities of their powers. And I have a fundamental question: When does the government intend to return to the local governments the powers and money which are due to local governments and which so far constituted their income? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You said that you used in this amendment the conclusions of the functioning of the revised Water Law. Really? Because you probably realized the confusion that caused the introduction of water use charges involving leisure or water sports organisations as part of an economic activity. To the extent that the local government committee will go to Giżycko next week to hear what local governments and entrepreneurs have to say about the regulation that has been issued, setting annual fees for the use of water-covered land. To this day, entrepreneurs do not know whether the rate of 1 gr or 8.90 PLN is to be applied for bathing. Maybe on the committee. Someone will explain it to us. In any case, this solution, which you introduced today, will clean Polish waters, where people used water sports, baths and other forms of normal use of water, will be cleaned from infrastructure. What connection does the floating keja or other floating object used for some activity have with the land under the water? Isn't it important that you consider this category? Because it's not an organization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] water sports or leisure organization, the fact that some entrepreneur built a pier and at his hotel people can go out to the water. After all, this is absurd, this is not the organisation of recreation or other forms for which money can be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski put the question in writing and it will be forwarded to the Minister. The last question at this point will be asked by Marek Owa, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in general, these changes will, of course, improve a few minor elements, but they will not change, they will not eliminate the main problem you have. You must be aware that you will be judged by the prism of the introduction of Water Law, by the prism of the functioning of Polish Waters. This is an entity that today does not carry out, as I said, any statutory tasks. You don't mow the shafts, all the ditches, the watercourses are covered with grass, when the water comes out, all those who live around you will be flooded. These jobs aren't started, you don't start invitations to tender. I do not know whether individual branches have any budget or not. This funding bill doesn't change anything here. If you do not solve this problem, unfortunately you will be glowing with your eyes, perhaps you will blame it on the Ministry of Environment, that it has prepared such a legal bubble, but it is you who have taken responsibility. Because Minister Kowalczyk, as head of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, was well aware of what a wick it was, so when he became Minister of the Environment, he gladly threw this ulcer in your hands so that you could hang out with him. That's the effect. I'd like you to tell me right here exactly when and how much money it's going to be. And to the speeches that we make, please answer, do not extend to simple questions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because simple questions are simple answers. And if there's no money, we ask where the money's coming from. You said 4 billion a year, and there's 1.5 billion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u426	Thank you very much. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Ms Anna Moscow. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for all your questions. It wasn't a question, but I heard a doubt in my voice, so I'll take it back, it's an art. 36. It is difficult to assess its functioning because it has been entering since 2021, so I do not think that any action in this direction can be taken at the moment. With regard to the widely discussed topic of Polish Waters today, Polish Waters function and carry out their tasks, employees have contracts and also carry out their tasks. Tenders shall be announced. [[They just don't do anything because they have nothing to do.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] I think that such living proof is the fact that currently in more than 500 municipalities Polish Waters managed to lower tariffs for water and sewage. This process has been carried out exemplaryly, which is confirmed by the cooperation with the waterworks, with the waterworks, and this is confirmed by the voices we receive on this subject. I cannot address the question of Minister Gajda's prizes. I'm sure he'll answer that question. Nor will I refer to the subject of the committee. We will not fall into your competence when it comes to parliamentary work, which committees should address this issue. Of course, we'll have a dialogue with each committee. As far as the applications and damages that have been received into the Polish Waters are concerned, to my knowledge, I am not the President of the Polish Waters, no claim for compensation has been received at the moment. Of course, we will answer in writing about this lake. I will refer to our water management competences. I understand that if we are able to deal with maritime affairs, inland navigation and water is a coherent area, we are able to deal with the whole range of water management. This is the only right approach to look at water as a whole, and according to this concept we proceed. This did not suit you in the Ministry of the Environment, nor does it respond in our department. It is difficult for you to find a positive solution for the moment. With regard to the return of local authorities, we do not feel that we have taken away the competences that we could return to local governments. The compensation in this law for these competences and taxes is repaired. There is a clear proposal to make, there is a budget for it, and we are waiting for proposals after the entry into force of the law. Let us hope that you will not hinder the entry into force of this amendment and that these proposals can be made quickly. As regards the case of water-covered land, the fees for these land, we conduct a training cycle and a permanent dialogue with the actors. We've got less and less negative votes on how much we charge. We also conduct regular audits. We will be happy to take part in this commission in Giżycko to have further discussions with you. I think I've addressed all the topics. [[Then tell me how many municipalities have a higher price for water. It was $2.5,000. conclusions.]] For the moment, I am unable to provide this information. [[I'll tell you. All of them. All of them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u428	Mr... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: It must be taken into account that the applications are submitted to us by the municipalities. A large proportion of these proposals, where there are higher charges, are still under consideration and we are having a dialogue with municipalities. It is not our intention to support both water and sewage increases. Thank you very much. That's it, Minister? The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u429	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Please answer the following questions: Question 1: According to the wording of the proposed article. Paragraph 552. 2a Water law shall also be determined by 31 December 2020 on the basis of: - readings of measuring instruments carried out in the framework of water management control Or... - declarations by entities required to pay water services for individual quarters. Is the above provision to be understood as meaning that the submission of a statement by the operator using water services will exclude the possibility of interfering with the functioning of the State Water Farm of Poland? As is apparent from the justification of the draft law, the purpose of this amendment is to limit, inter alia, the possible interference of PGW Water Polskie in the activities carried out by the plants, as well as to minimise the burdens which would relate in particular to the control of water management at the premises. Question 2: In accordance with the draft Article. Article 26 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Water rights and the proposed amendment in Article. 298 point 3 Water rights Maritime offices will be excluded from the levy on mining of precious goods in the context of the protection of the seashore and the maintenance/deepening of the waterways. Will the fees to be paid by the maritime authorities by the date of entry into force of the amended rules therefore be reimbursed to the maritime authorities? As is apparent from the justification of the proposed law, the obligation to protect the seashore and to maintain/ deepen the watercourse arises from the provisions of the law and the maritime authorities should not be charged for such activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle towards the government's draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws. This draft law highlights important legal solutions that favour the reduction of administrative formalities in the scope of promises or legal consents. In addition, the draft law limits certain requirements, such as the submission of documents or data that the body already has in its databases. This will significantly reduce red tape and reduce some long-term administrative procedures. There are many changes to the articles in this Act. These changes affect the essence of the Water Law, the improvement of which is required. Many of these changes will lead to very important effects. The proposed law is compatible with European Union law and will have an important impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and medium-sized or small enterprises. The effects that will be achieved after the introduction of this Act will significantly improve many important activities carried out by companies. It will be worth mentioning the effects of the amendments to the Articles of this Act: to eliminate interpretation doubts related to the operation of linear infrastructure in the case of the designation of a shoreline, to prohibit the introduction of rainwater into groundwater and to prohibit the introduction of rainwater containing substances which are particularly harmful to water equipment, to clarify the interpretation doubts regarding the application of rules on the management of buildings and land-use in areas at risk of flooding. Standards will be introduced according to which water facilities which have either been made by the Polish Waters on land covered by inland waters flowing as well as on the property of the State Treasury will be the property of the State Treasury. Contracts will continue without a call for tender, which is another element in reducing bureaucracy. Complaint procedures will be improved in many different cases. Another effect will be to set the minimum threshold charged for water services and to optimise the charging system for water services for power plants and power stations with open cooling circuits. Changes to the Act will result in voivodeships being the data sources for the water management information system. Another effect will be to establish a number of regulations related to waste management. The transfer of competence in water law assessments to directors of regional water management boards will also have a significant impact on improving water law activities. Another important effect will be the standardization of the system of measurement of tariff meters. This is to be based on credibility, which will serve legal and modern measuring instruments. The changes I have mentioned will make a very important contribution to the efficiency and reduction of bureaucracy in relation to the Water Law in our country. Therefore, the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u431	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the PSL-UED Club, I will present my position on the first reading of the government draft law amending the Water Law Act. The adoption of the Law of 20 July 2017 by the Sejm on Water Law with Mistakes gave rise to interpretation doubts, which should be clarified, in particular as regards the granting of consents and water law promises and integrated permits, the management of State Treasury real estate and the application of a new system of fees for water services. It is proposed that water grades belong to the category of flood-proof structures. With regard to the proper application of the provisions of the Water Equipment Act to linear infrastructure, it is recommended to extend the application of the Law to linear infrastructure carried out by surface water without restriction to the shoreline. In addition, it is proposed to amend the definition of water metastases by clarifying the content of the provision, which is incomplete and raises interpretational doubts. Clarification of the provision setting out the tasks of the National Water Management Board as regards the decision prohibiting the use of water in the absence of a water permit and the role of a higher authority within the meaning of the Code of Administrative Procedure by the President of the Polish Waters should be considered important. The analytical situation concerns the tasks of the water catchment management with regard to the clarification of the tasks arising from the performance of the function of the water melioration competent authority in the arrangement procedure for the decision on the location of the public target investment. The bill provides for the possibility for entities that have contracts with Polish Waters to continue contracts without having to conduct a tender. The proposed amendment will not affect the obligation to obtain the supervisory authority's approval of the proposed property regulation, nor will it disrupt the transparency of the procedure. The bill contains a number of changes that result from the wrong way of passing the law - in haste, without taking into account the opinions of experts or common sense. Nevertheless, the club PSL-UED is in favour of further work on the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u432	The discussion requested additional referral of the bill to the Committee on Public Finance, Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, as well as to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the National Debt Register (print No. 2637). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on the National Debt Register. It shall constitute the implementation referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 15 May 2015. Restructuring law requires the creation of a Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment. The project includes solutions adopted in the Act of 26 January 2018 amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. It shall also comply with the obligation laid down in Article. Paragraph 24 1 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on insolvency proceedings, hereinafter referred to as Regulation 2015/848, according to which Member States establish and maintain on their territory at least one register in which information on insolvency proceedings is published, so-called. the bankruptcy register. The project contains solutions aimed at improving the functioning of the judiciary in restructuring and bankruptcy cases, responding to the significant problems of restructuring and bankruptcy courts resulting from a significant increase in the number of cases, particularly in the field of consumer bankruptcy. The register introduced by the law is public, everyone has the right to read the data disclosed in the register and the data covered by the notices via the Internet. These seem to be the basic assumptions of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u434	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak, in this case presenting the position of the Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u435	Nice Miss Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the government draft law on the National Debt Register, print No. 2637. It is appropriate to agree with the government's intentions to develop this project, since the register will disclose information concerning specific categories of entities with a common feature of insolvency, insolvency risk or other solvency problems, which state that executions carried out against a particular entity are ineffective. Notices will also be made in the register if a specific provision so provides and special provisions of this kind are contained in a number of articles of Restructuring Law and insolvency law. The adoption of the project, High Izbo, will enable many goals to be achieved. They are among others. ensuring that creditors have current access to the file of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings through the IT system, the disclosure in the register of a number of data relating to ongoing restructuring and insolvency proceedings, in order to increase the transparency of such proceedings, to increase the safety of economic trade, to improve the supervision of creditors and to the judge of the Commissioner over the judicial supervisor, the administrator or the syndicate. Further: speeding up and improving restructuring and bankruptcy procedures and increasing their efficiency, increasing the level of satisfaction of creditors in insolvency proceedings, introducing and using new technologies in restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u436	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, the position will be presented by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law on the National Debt Register, print No. 2637. The draft law shall constitute the implementation referred to in Article. 5 of the Act of 15 May 2015. Restructuring Law to create on 1 February 2018. Central Register of Restructuring and Impairment. The purpose of this register was to streamline restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings, to facilitate access to information on these proceedings, to improve communication between the authorities and their participants and to reduce the costs of proceedings. This register was not created, while work was being carried out on the extension of its scope. The result of these works is this draft law. The scope of the National Debt Register significantly goes beyond the regulations of the Restructuring Law and insolvency law and will be broader than originally assumed to be the source of information about insolvent entities at risk of insolvency or those subject to unsuccessful execution. This required the repeal of the said Article. 5 The Law on Restructuring and the adoption of a separate law, which at the same time changes to a broad extent the Act on Bankruptcy and the Law on Restructuring. The aim is to build a single IT system that will handle insolvency and restructuring proceedings and the National Debt Register. The register shall disclose information about natural persons, legal persons and organisational units which are not legal persons in respect of which restructuring, insolvency proceedings are or have been conducted, the decision to prohibit, the recognition of the decision to open foreign insolvency proceedings, the shareholders of commercial companies who are liable for the obligations of the company without limitation of all their assets if the bankruptcy of the company, the natural persons, legal persons and organisational units not legal persons to whom enforcement proceedings conducted by the bailiff have been terminated, and the natural persons to whom the enforcement of maintenance benefits is pending for a period of more than 3 months are committed. The register is open and everyone has the right to read the data contained in it. The general principle is the non-removalability of data from the register. The disclosure of the data in the register shall be automatically discontinued 10 years after the date of the final termination or termination of the proceedings. The three-year period concerns a legally approved agreement. When analysing the bill, it should be stressed that such a document, which would contain all the necessary information on restructuring or bankruptcy processes in the ICT system, is very much needed, among others. to increase the safety of trade. However, there are many doubts about the detailed solutions contained in the bill. One of them is the protection of personal data, especially GDPR. The question is whether the publication of the PESEL number constitutes an excessive and disproportionate interference in the rights and freedoms of persons who are to be found in the National Debt Register. These and other reservations and doubts should be clarified in the course of further legislative work, of which I am continuing to request on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have listened to the Minister, I have listened to your Members. You could say that the bill is almost good, but so that we don't fire, ladies and gentlemen, the baby with the bath, as usual. I understand, Minister, the disclosure of data, etc., as regards economic operators, even economic operators as single-member companies or individually engaged in business activities, but I have great doubts as to the same disclosure and the same treatment of ordinary, normal natural persons who do not operate. This is where the 2015 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe is bowing down. So that it does not turn out to be the same regulation as the GDPR, I ask you, if we reveal private, physical persons. I don't want to move entrepreneurs because it's a little different. I'm all for it here. There is the certainty of economic turnover, here I completely agree, but we disclose the name of the person who does not carry out the activity, the place of his residence, the address, PESEL, NIP, if he has, and we keep this data, for example. for a maintenance commitment for seven years. In turn, if there is a ban on doing business - courts rarely issue it, but they spend it - then it is a 3-year period, i.e. those of those large sharks who should be at least 10 years old, are 3 years old and the proportion should be the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, I know we can say that allies have to pay, but there are different situations, for example. health situations. I'll give you a simple example. The Pole who ran the company in Australia had maintenance obligations. The court in Poland sentenced him to 10,000. Alimony a month. During that time, this man retired, wound up the company, returned to Poland. He had a house built in Poland. Aliments ate his house because he paid $10,000. a month, they ate him before he could apply for alimony reduction, etc. The courts did not want to lower him, which is also strange when he remained exclusively on pension benefits. Therefore, the treatment of a natural person as economic operators, of all kinds of economic operators, keeping this data in an open register to which everyone has access, in my opinion, is absolutely in breach of the GDPR. Now I simply ask myself how this law is adopted by the European Union and how we will add it to the Polish law, that on the one hand we are told to mark all names, we cannot keep anything in the parliamentary offices, and on the other hand we will publicly disclose all the data of a natural person. It's not enough that this data could be a cause for fraud, because normal crooks are gonna have... Minister, maybe another example. We're talking about entities that are in debt. And why aren't there people being hunted who cheat people in broad daylight? It is about various telecommunications, energy, gas companies that forge contracts, send them to courts and win about PLN 1500,2000 per person. On a national scale, it's huge money. I don't even want to count. I personally intervened in this Chamber at least three times in the context of current questions. How can a telecommunications company, which is located in Warsaw on the street. Górczewska 41, cheats customers in a permanent way for 2 years, and it cheats mass, because it is also information of the consumer spokesman? Nobody's after her. Her data will not be disclosed because she has income, not debt. So I'm just asking where this equality is before the law. I think the first thing to do is to chase crooks, all kinds of crooks, and absolutely. On the other hand, companies, company data, etc. should be public. Here, I'm for transparency. On the other hand, this project must be modified in terms of individuals and also in one case, as I said, concerning the deletion from the register after a period of 3 years of persons who were banned from doing business. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u440	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u441	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I have the honour to present a statement on the government draft law on the National Debt Register, print no. 2637. The project concerns the definition of rules for maintaining the National Debt Register in the ICT system. The draft law serves the application of Regulation No 215/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015. On the basis of the Insolvency Regulation, Member States shall establish and maintain on their territory at least one register, so-called. the bankruptcy register in which information on insolvency proceedings is published immediately after they have been opened. The Regulation sets out a minimum set of publicly available data. Firstly, the advantage of this project is to improve the information of creditors and courts by ensuring that the electronic system provides timely access to the files of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. Secondly, prevention of parallel insolvency proceedings in Member States is an asset. The establishment of an electronic public access point for information in an e-Justice system will allow access to mandatory information and information contained in insolvency registers that Member States will make available. Thirdly, the introduction of these changes will also involve increasing the safety of economic turnover, speeding up and improving restructuring and bankruptcy procedures and increasing their efficiency. However, there are, of course, reservations, Minister, because this draft law also raises doubts as to the confidentiality of personal data and the handling of cases. It should be considered whether the need to make PESEL numbers available in the National Debt Register does not involve excessive, disproportionate interference in the rights and freedoms of persons whose data could reasonably be included in the register. The issue is that it may also be difficult to proceed in traditional paper form, which will make it difficult for certain groups of citizens to benefit from the newly introduced system. Taking into account all these arguments, on behalf of the Posel Club I am in favour of further work on the bill, and I believe that in the course of the work of the Sejm committees these doubts will be resolved and the project will be fully acceptable to all parliamentarians in this House and in the Higher House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u442	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk presented his speech on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in writing. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, representing the Civic Platform, put the question in writing. And the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, it is necessary to create such a register, but the fact that it is to be public, public and, on the other hand, on the Internet, raises a lot of concerns in many environments. Does the fact that someone has financial problems entitle them to be stigmatized by society? I think the range of people with access to the register is too wide. This is another thing written on the knee. Moreover, according to the project, the debtor's data will not be disclosed until 7 years after the execution or repayment of the entire debt has been completed. So even the liabilities paid back will go on with the debtor for a long time. I believe that this period should be much shorter after payment. It would also be appropriate to separate maintenance debtors from others, since the non-payment of alimony is punishable by criminal liability. I wanted to ask you if these comments I am referring to will be taken into account at a later stage of the process on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u444	Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to go back to personal data protection. After reading the reasons for the bill and the opinions that have been sent to this project, it seems strange to me that then the General Data Protection Officer very generally referred to this protection, saying that it should be considered whether there is too deep and disproportionate interference with personal data. And I think that exposing PESEL is a very deep interference. Despite a very broad, comprehensive justification, I have not found an explanation for this issue. After all, let's remember what happened to the GDPR and the election board. After all, the Sejm recently withdrew its intention to install cameras in electoral sites for the protection of personal data. And here there is far-reaching interference and I think that the General Data Protection Officer, who trained the staff of our Members' Offices, how to protect personal data, which we do not disclose, very generally and without careful analysis, so lightly assessed this situation. I would ask the Minister to explain this in particular so that we do not have to withdraw from it in a moment's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u446	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. The first is the formal one: I will be another Member, another Member, who will, however, ask for an indication of the possibility of implementing this law after the entry into force of the GDPR. The protection of personal data, which has been binding on all of us for years, sometimes becomes so rigid that it is difficult to act. How can this be reconciled? I understand that this is the implementation of EU law, but is this exactly how it should be implemented? But there is a second, extremely important issue, this is a question of some stigmatization of people. Please respond to the reason for such a long period of disclosure after payment of the debt. I consider this, like my predecessors, to be a stigmatization of a person. After all, very often this debt is created without fault by a person who is in debt. So that these are two points that were not actually raised in the Minister's speech, so I would very much ask that perhaps the answers to the questions now be clarified. One thing I think is very important, very necessary, these are maintenance matters. They are still unexplained, still many women suffer because it is difficult to find a maintenance debtor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it is very good that this issue is so strict, unambiguously placed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u448	Mr Tomasz Kostusz of the Civic Platform has put a question in writing, which will be forwarded. And now for answers to the questions asked, I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer three questions I could have listened to. Mrs Navel's question. The existence of financial problems of a particular person entitles you to publish data, including sensitive data such as PESEL - in every question this thread actually appears - or the place of residence. This is not really about the fact that the legislator wants to stigmatize someone in this project, although it works both for those who have led to insolvency in a faulty way - and there is nothing wrong with it - and for those who are innocent in such a situation. And that shouldn't be a stigmatization. But it's not about stigmatization, but it's about the safety of turnover, it's about the fact that contracting with people who are de facto incapable of paying off liabilities is insanely risky. This applies, of course, to professional turnover, to entrepreneurs, but it also applies to normal people who make commitments, they already have debts and these debts increase. Therefore, this is necessary - and not only do we see it as the creator of the project, but we are talking about the implementation of European legislation - so that knowledge about debt holders is widely available, as much as possible, so that it is not that we contract in good faith in professional or consumer trade with someone who is not about to comply or will not be able to meet their obligations because it already has this excess of debt over assets. So it's a question of marketing security, because it's just as important or more important than some people get into financial trouble without their own fault. It's about marketing safety. It is not as if some of your fellow Members have said, that this is a complete novelty, that this has so far been classified, and now we reveal that this has no basis. We have a record of insolvent debtors. Not many people know about this because it's not very popular. Maybe the tool is wrong, maybe the normative basis is archaic, but there is a register of insolvent debtors in the National Court Register, where failing entrepreneurs are registered, are entered debtors who have been found to be ineffective in the execution of a private or public creditor's application. Why this seven-year period? This thread actually appears in every expression. It is because in the case of a register of insolvent debtors, these 7 years are already accepted today and so far no one has specifically questioned it. We're making a new register, modern. We hope that much more friendly and accessible from the point of view of seeking information about insolvent persons, but we are not making some revolutionary change here. There was this period of 7 years, there was the principle of public access to these data, including sensitive data. There's nothing new here. What's new besides some technical changes? There is a Europe-wide requirement that we need to adapt to so that there is a system across Europe that makes it possible to disclose the data of insolvent people. Of course, in this system we do not need to disclose the so-called. Alimentaries, but it's our choice that we want to expose them because we think it's highly reprehensible that so many people don't pay to support their children first of all. So if the register is easily accessible, the public will learn to use it. There will also be data on so-called. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, And that's very good, maybe it'll be another measure that will force more timely regulation of maintenance obligations. Ms Czernow's question about GDPR. There can be no conflict with the GDPR, because the GDPR already takes into account at EU level as an act that we are trying to implement here with the canoe - it works better or worse, but we are trying, we are not the only ones in Europe who have a problem with it, but this is an EU act which forces various types of restrictions - EU law on the obligation to create a register of restructuring and bankruptcy, which we have expanded and called the National Debt Register. Thus, there can be no non-compliance at national level, since Union legislation takes into account the existence of an exemption from the general principle of the protection of personal data of those situations which concern insolvent debtors. At Union level there is no right to be non-compliance and there is no such non-compliance at national level. And there's no such discrepancy, or at least there's no indication that such non-compliance would occur. Of course, PESEL is an identification number that clearly identifies a person, whether an entrepreneur or any natural person. It is not that we now introduce an obligation to disclose PESEL, and that obligation was not. Look who's interested in this article. 51 Bankruptcy rights, ours, in force. As regards the declaration of bankruptcy of natural persons, entrepreneurs shall be reported PESEL. Art. 491 concerns natural persons, but consumers - PESEL is given, address, place of residence is given. All this data is published in the Court and Economic Monitor. The fact that few people use it or even know that there is a Judicial and Economic Monitor is a matter of reality, but we turn the archaic advertising system into an MSiG. This is a modern system, but these announcements that are already publicly available today, only very few who are interested in it, will now be publicly available, only in a much more modern register. We do not change philosophy, it is already, but it was probably noticed on the occasion of work on this law by parliamentarians, by those who submitted various kinds of comments in the course of the public consultation. In Mrs Fabisiak's speech there is a GDPR, trendy, now everyone is talking about it, but there is no way there is a contradiction here. If we see in the course of the legislative process that such a contradiction exists somewhere, we are obviously ready to discuss it, but as of today outside the GDPR's motto, we have not heard any concrete complaint that could be made to our project. What took you so long, seven years? That's all there is. Unfortunately, even if someone paid off the debt, for some time this information about the repayment of the debt should be available, which means that it was the person to whom the contractual risk existed. These seven years have been in the RDN, and that's how we leave it. We are very concerned, especially in the context of the discussion on GDPR, about these issues of transparency. In Scandinavia, all tax returns are public, not only property statements made by parliamentarians, judges and other selected groups. Nobody gets excited about it. There's identification numbers, there's addresses, and there's nothing going on. No great crime was found using this data, much more accurate, much more detailed. There society is used to being more public, not with us, but what we are proposing is really nothing in terms of European law or certain common sense rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u450	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak - corrigendum, right? One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I understand that such records were, but have you not met with the fact that for many people stigmatization was the long period of disclosure of the debtor who paid off the debt? It's stigmatizing. The explanation that such records were, personally to me, is not sufficient, because if a new law is being prepared, then I understand that it is being examined whether it is socially good. The fact that Members make statements, and other professional groups, that is normal, it is my good will, and I agree to it by adopting certain rules. But a debtor who didn't become indebted shouldn't be... In my opinion, it's hurtful, and think about it. I think the committee will be able to work on that, too. But I didn't ask one question, and that's something to think about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are debt registers, banks have them, and banks cooperate in this regard. How are these registers going to fit into this national register? Will they or will they not? This case hasn't been cleared up at all, and it's also important. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u452	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u453	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Please answer the following questions kindly. The proposed law introduces a complete computerisation of restructuring and bankruptcy procedures. In particular, the draft law provides that letters and documents not submitted via the electronic system, contrary to the statutory obligation, will not give rise to the legal effects which the law entails in bringing a letter to the court. In view of the above, have the authors of the proposed law taken into account the possibility of introducing a transitional period during which letters and documents can be submitted in plain writing so that participants in restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings are prepared to handle the IT system and acquire the necessary skills to handle it? According to the justification of the proposed law, the amendment of the current article. 2 (2) 1 of the Act on the National Court Register is dictated by the results of the previous 17-year practice of registered courts in each voivodship. The proposed amendment involves adapting the structure of the national registration courts to the number of cases affecting individual courts. Consequently, what number of cases or other grounds will determine the jurisdiction of the registry court in question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the newly created register, the data of maintenance debtors are to be disclosed, the rules adopted by the government are to allow the identification of the debtor and, at the same time, allow a relatively easy search for the person concerned. It is therefore necessary to disclose PESEL numbers in the register. Aren't these provisions contrary to the current GDPR regulation? The draft introduces a general principle whereby in bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings letters and orders are served through the electronic system. Do the current ICT solutions allow for a complete departure from the traditional paper service? Will there not be a repeat of the situation known from the introduction of the rules on the CEPiK?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats our position on the government draft law on the National Debt Register, print No. 2637. This project assumes the creation of the National Debt Register. It will be public, which means that everyone will be able to read the data revealed in it via the Internet. The government proposal also envisages facilitating the restructuring and bankruptcy of entrepreneurs. This is a response to the important problems of the restructuring and bankruptcy courts resulting from a significant increase in the number of cases relating in particular to consumer bankruptcy. Projectors propose to introduce an obligation to submit applications and documents by electronic means in the restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings of entrepreneurs - this will enable the automatic transfer of data from the application submitted by electronic means to repertoires and the court's and the judge's rules on the matter. An electronic service is introduced as a principle in the project, which is intended to significantly speed up the communication of the participants in the proceedings with the court. From this principle, an exception has been proposed to allow applications to be submitted outside the electronic system - workers, maintenance creditors and consumers' debtors will be able to submit paper applications - and orally - in the application office of each court. The files of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings are to be kept in electronic form from now on. Access to them will be possible both in the file reader's room in court and through the created public internet portal. The draft also introduces an obligation to submit letters on forms set out in the electronic system, which will be mandatory for participants and bodies of the proceedings. An important change is also the creation of a single account for the entity, which will allow for communication with the court in restructuring and bankruptcy cases and registered cases. With the entry into force of the proposed law, the obligation to publish notices in the Court and Economic Monitor will disappear. This is expected to bring savings of PLN 3.6 million per year to the interested. The newly created National Debt Register will disclose the data of persons subject to restructuring and insolvency proceedings and those subject to ineffective execution. The project assumes that the National Debt Register will also be visited by people who are behind with alimony payments. The aim here is to increase the collection of alimony, since the register will contain information on the persons subject to the execution of maintenance benefits and whose arrears exceed 3 months. High Izbo! The proposed changes should be assessed positively. They will help to save businesses and reduce the costs of proceedings. Less paper correspondence and faster circulation of documents will allow for better functioning of courts. An important aspect of the project is also to facilitate access to court files and significantly reduce the time needed for access to the data contained in the documents on restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. It is also important to emphasise the European dimension of the changes being made. The new system will combine bankruptcy registers and the European e-Justice portal, which will act as a central electronic public access point for information in the system. The system will offer a search function in all official languages of the Union institutions to allow access to mandatory information and any other documents and information contained in insolvency registers maintained by Member States, which will also decide to make their resources available via the e-Justice portal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u456	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the National Debt Register to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 4 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the first vote. There is no Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, also the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the commemoration of the life and work of the great painter and poet Wlastimil Hofman. The year of Wlastimil Hofman in Szklarska Poręba ended very solemnly. The city, inhabitants of the entire region and numerous tourists celebrated artistic events specially prepared for this extraordinary anniversary. Wlastimil Hofman, born in Prague in a Polish-Czech family, spent his entire life in Poland, including many years until his death, lived in Szklarska Poręba. During his studies of painting at the School of Fine Arts and at the beginning of his creative work he lived in Krakow, the most important place for Polish culture at that time, during the most colourful period of Young Poland. The fame of the young Hofman brought the painting of a confession made in 1906 in Zachęta. Shortly after that, Wlastimil Hofman was the first Pole to be nominated as a member of the Vienna Secession. After the war wandering in 1947 he chose Szklarska Poręba as his place for life and creativity. In painting he continued the symbolic and allegorical line initiated by Jack Malczewski. He was also a follower of the rich tradition of the artistic colony in Szklarska Poręba. He had a warm relationship with residents and tourists who often posed him for the paintings for which he had been close and friendly. He mainly painted portraits, but also paintings about ancient, fairytale and religious themes. From under his brush came such works as a series of 30 paintings, our Father, the Four Evangelists, the cycle of the Rosary, the Triptych, the Adoration of the Child, the Eucharistic Christ and others. His paintings adorn the altars of many churches. Permanently lived and created in a small wooden house called Vlastimilówka today. Hofman was also a poet. Beautiful and touching are his poems about religious themes, but also about the beauty of the Krkonoše and surrounding nature, which he constantly admired. Hofman's paintings are found in all the most important collections of Polish paintings. Especially numerous are the collections of paintings in the National Museums in Cracow, Poznań and Warsaw, but also in the houses of the Franciscan Fathers of the Cracow Province. A large collection of paintings, sketches, drawings, photographs and letters of the painter is located in the Krkonoše Museum in Jelenia Góra. The selection of images from the collection can be seen in the museum of Carl and Gerhart Hauptmann in Szklarska Poręba. Hofman's canvases have a large number of private collectors throughout Poland and abroad. Hofman considered himself a Polish painter and was perceived as such. Today Wlastimilówka is a private property in which there is a museum filled with the artist's spirit, reflecting the climate of space and time. The city authorities have decided to honor the life and work of an outstanding artist by establishing the Year of Wlastimil Hofman. A series of exhibition events, artistic workshops, tours in the footsteps of the artist, discussions, poetic evenings and painting outdoors inspired by the artist's work were organized. The inhabitants of Szklarska Poręba are proud that an outstanding painter chose their town for his small homeland, loved this place and lived among them as a friend. Wlastimil Hofman rests on the municipal cemetery in Szklarska Poręba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u458	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15 to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a statement, which kind of forced me to say that my friends visited me today and yesterday. Today there was a granddaughter of a colleague from our Kukiz movement15 with an employee of the European Parliament. I would like to appeal to our marshal, Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland Marek Kuchciński, so that there will be no problems with entering the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on... I know that it is for fear: we remember the coup, we remember how the Sejm occupied the disabled, but Poles want to visit this place, want to visit the Polish parliament, want to enter the Sejm, see the hall, the Sejm, see how Members work. They deserve it like a dog's bone, and it can't be that they can't get in. For some time, it was possible to leave - any Member or Member could leave - and introduce five people and answer for them. It's gone now. You have to come to the office, report it to the office. It's a mailbox. Then you have to notify the Marshal's Guard, the commander. If he says yes, you just walk in. This can't be right. Our citizens, but also our guests from abroad must come in somehow. I know this is a problem. We remember this coup, as I said, and this occupation of the Sejm, but it can't be. We need to be open. This is what the Poles expect. My second remark and such a request to the Marshal Marek Kuchciński's Seym. The point is not to build fences, not to build moats. I would like to see the costs that are needed for this, to limit access to the Sejm, for some kind of world, some heated room. Now it's summer, but then it's autumn and winter. I see trips coming from all over Poland. They have to come early sometimes because they have a bus, and they wait 20 minutes, half an hour in the cold, in the rain. It's a shame for kids and older people who can't hide. There should be a room at the pass office, because the one that's... It is known that people come there all the time for passes or for committee sittings here in the Sejm, and this room is too small. The point is to make such a small storage room for those who are waiting to enter the Sejm, especially in autumn and winter. We must take care of it, we must show that the Sejm is friendly to our fellow countrymen that this place is. Because people are dreaming about what I said, and they want to get into this room. They see it, they know it from the media, they know it from TV, they know it from work and they want to see it, they want to see it. So, Mr. Marshal and the Sejm Bureau, we must lean on the Sejm to be for our fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated, will now make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 April this year, the Civic Committee of the legislative initiative was registered by the Marshal of the Sejm, whose purpose is to collect signatures under the law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Immortal Diseases. The fundamental objective of this law and its amendments is to abolish the compulsory preventive vaccination, i.e. those that concern children, as is the case in 20 European countries, of course civilized countries, countries such as Germany and many, many others. At the same time, this initiative has led to very unpleasant attacks on those collecting signatures under this law, e.g. They are called so-called. Anti-vaccines. I would like to state at this point very strongly that they are not anti-vaccines, at least I do not know anything about such and I personally have not met any such person in my life. The change is intended, as I said, to introduce voluntary vaccination in the case of children. This concerns an amendment to the provision of the Article. 17 Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, while the project does not change Article. 33 of the Act, which introduces the so-called. vaccination, necessary in the event of an outbreak or emergency. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to this basic objective, i.e. voluntary vaccination in children, the aim of this bill is the following: firstly, the main aim is the voluntary vaccination which I said 20 European countries, the citizens of these countries, secondly, the thorough medical history and written information about the risk before vaccination, thirdly, the thorough medical history after vaccination, then the possibility for parents to report adverse vaccination reactions and judicial supervision of the register of these reactions, and finally the possibility to comment on changes to the vaccination calendar. Ladies and gentlemen! For unknown reasons, Poland is a country in which an enormous number of forced vaccines are still maintained, to the extent that the child receives three compulsory vaccines in the first day of his life, in the first day of his birth. I know from court practice, because I go to cases related to this problem, that very often there is not even a proper medical interview that could rule out possible contraindications. This results in undesirable vaccine reactions and various health complications and even permanent health damage. This cannot be the case, and the right to whether or not to vaccinate children should, of course, belong to parents. As I said, this is happening in 20 European countries. Then, too, the problem is that parents do not have the opportunity to report possible adverse vaccine reactions on their own, as the doctor does. However, the problem is that the doctor has some sort of conflict of interest, because it is he who qualifies for vaccination. If it happens that his diagnosis before vaccination is not very accurate, he will not really have any interest in reporting this reaction. Then the parents are not able to, in fact, have a judicial remedy in relation to the reporting of this type of adverse vaccine reaction. It's all about eliminating this bill. So once again I stress: It is not intended to combat vaccines or vaccinations as such, but to allow parents to give them the right to choose whether they want their children, especially the smallest ones, to vaccinate or not. And it's not a strange solution, it's not some sort of departure from the prey of civilization, but, on the contrary, it's giving parents the right to choose. Especially since there is no compensation system in Poland related to the adverse effects of vaccination. If there's a forced vaccination, there should be a compensation system. There's obviously no such thing. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to be a civilized country, we cannot treat people as breeding animals, and this is how we treat Polish children at the moment - you apply vaccines to them whether parents want it or not, and whether there are real indications or not. If we want to treat people as free and responsible, this need for preventive vaccination must, of course, be abolished, which in no way reduces the safety of society or the population in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-07-04-sejm-66-2.u462	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 5 July 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 43]]
