ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I cordially welcome your fellow Members and guests. I am calling for the secretaries of today's deliberations Marta Kubiak, Piotr Olszówka, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Kinga Gajewska. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Piotr Olszówka. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 72nd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandates: Mr Stanisław Huskowski, Mr Grzegorz Schreiber, Mr Bogusław Sonik, Mr Dariusz Starzycki, Mr Jarosław Stawiarski on the basis of the article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I have decided to take their place accordingly: Mrs Iwona Małgorzata Krawczyk, Mr Paweł Piotr Rychlik, Mr Gregory Cezar Lipc, Mrs Danuta Czesława Nowicka, Mr Sławomir Skwark, who have volunteered to take the oath of the parliament. I ask Members to come closer to the Presidency table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Iwona Małgorzata Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u3	Mr Paweł Piotr Rychlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u4	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u5	Mr Grzegorz Cezary July.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u6	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u7	Mrs Danuta Czesław Nowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u8	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u9	Mr Sławomir Skwarek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u10	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u11	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I note that Iwona Małgorzata Krawczyk, Mr Paweł Piotr Rychlik, Mr Grzegorz Cezary Lipiec, Mrs Danuta Czesław Nowicka and Mr Sławomir Skwarek have taken a vow of their own. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Labour Code Act, print No. 2088, - First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the repeal of the Trade Limitation Act on Sundays and holidays and on some other days, print No 2423. At the 72nd meeting, the Sejm did not vote on: - requests for rejection at first reading of Parliament's draft laws amending the Labour Code in print Nos 2520 and 2584, - the committee's report on the request by the head of the Western Pomeranian Department of the Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin of 24 June 2018 to allow the Sejm to exercise criminal liability and to apply a preventive measure in the form of a temporary arrest by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679, print No 3050. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, print No 3052. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act, print No 3034. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these Documents, - amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, - to amend certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. These are printers 3055, 2966 and 3062 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future, prints No. 2960 and 3063. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to keep it on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future, prints No. 2960 and 3063, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 221 votes against 181 and 3 abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, print No 3054. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018, print No 3054, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 223, against 165, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws, print No 3053. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and some other laws, print No. 3053, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 226 voted against - 183, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. High Seym! The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion of the committee's report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the decree of the State Governor on the establishment of the Councils of the Commonwealth in the area of the Congress Kingdom. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting the scale of the increase in electricity prices for households, local government units and entrepreneurs, the reasons for the increase in electricity prices and the planned projects in order to mitigate the effects of the changes in energy prices proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u12	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 16, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the Environment Children of War - hour 3.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Layer Property Rights - hour 5:30. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u13	We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Civil Code Act (prints No 2876 and 3006). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Civil Code Act. Marshal of the Sejm at the 71st meeting, on the basis of Article. 87. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent the above draft to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The Extraordinary Commission considered the project on 20 November 2018. Let me remind you that this project concerns a very important issue, so-called. Anatolysm, i.e. interest on interest. In this respect, the committee recommends that the draft no. 2876 be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u15	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the presidential draft law amending the Civil Code Act, print No 2876 and 3006. The draft provides for the deletion from the Civil Code of the provision contained in Article. 482 § 2, i.e. simply abolishing this unjustified advantage for credit institutions, banks regarding the calculation of interest on late interest. After this change, there would be only two exceptions to the principle of anatolysm: one when the parties have agreed to capitalise on interest, and the other when this capitalization takes place at the time of the lawsuit. During the committee's work, there was doubts about the inter-temporal rule contained in the draft. The suggestion was to clarify more precisely the rules that would apply to the new rules. It is proposed - and I will make such an amendment on behalf of the club - to Article. 2 is replaced by the following: The existing provisions shall apply to interest due before the date of entry into force of this Law. Here we have a clarification of the wording of the inter-temporal regulation and at the same time an indication that the existing provisions will apply only to interest due until the date of entry into force of the amending law. In this situation, on behalf of the club, I request that the bill be adopted with this amendment tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u17	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform wanted to present a position on amending the Civil Code Act in print No 2876. As the previous speakers mentioned, the proposed amendment concerns a certain modification of the rules on the principle of anatomy in the system of Polish law. These rules are currently provided for in Article. 482 Civil Code, which bans so-called. Anatolysm, i.e. making an appointment in advance for payment of interest on interest outstanding. It's the so-called. compound percentage. This principle prevents the debtor's debt from multiplying indefinitely. This provision is absolutely binding; beyond its scope, it is only the exceptions laid down in the Civil Code. These exceptions for today are three: the situation where the admissibility of contractual interest collection regulation is provided for in the agreement between the parties, secondly, the situation where the creditor has brought an action after interest and, thirdly, the case of long-term loans granted by credit institutions. It was a group of privileged entities which, by law, had the right to charge interest on late interest. The amendment provides for the repeal of one of these exceptions, namely the favour of those credit institutions which granted long-term loans. The repeal of one of these exceptions essentially means a return to the rule of law that was in force under the Code of Obligations in the field of the principle of anatomy, and that is to say, Article. § 249 § 1 Code of Commitments, which gave the possibility to calculate interest for late interest only from the moment of filing for it, unless by the will of the parties the interest was capitalised upon the backlog. Attention should be paid to the return to the rules of the interwar period in this respect, on § 2 of the provision referred to in Article. 249, which indicated that this provision does not prejudice different commercial rules and practices. I think that this is also a good regulation, which is worth leaning on when we are thinking comprehensively about how to regulate the principle of anatoism in the system of Polish law. On behalf of the club, I can support this amendment to the Civil Code, but seeing the need for further work on the shape of the principle of anatolyzm in the system of Polish law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to put forward a position on the issue of Seym Printing No 2876. The Presidential draft law providing for the amendment of the article. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code deserves special attention. It is also a solution which, I agree with my previous speakers, deserves to be further processed and introduced into the Polish legal order. This change is based on the deletion of the article I have already referred to. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code. Of course, we are talking about one of three cases of anatolysm, a compound percentage, in the Polish legal order. We are talking about a special situation when one of the parties to a civil relationship is a privileged entity, however much to look at, due to the position of banking institutions, credit in the Polish legal order. In view of the above, the bill submitted deserves to be introduced into the Polish legal order. I also agree with the remark made by the previous speaker, Mr Marek Ast, on the issue of the implementing and inter-temporal provisions of the bill submitted. We will also support this amendment. So on behalf of the Kukiz club15, we approve and vote for the presidential bill. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern. Your envoy isn't here, because he's there, apparently, confusion at the moment. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Oh, and neither is your Member. Do we have any questions? No questions. [[I'm sorry, but I signed up, and I'm here.]] Question? Please, sir, I would like to invite you. If any of you wish to join us, of course I would like to invite you. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u22	I signed up. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The President's proposal aims to introduce a real ban on the use of anatolycism, i.e. capitalising on the interest in debt. Such a solution restores our legislation to the framework already set out in Roman law and civilizes the relationship between the borrower and the lending institution. This is important because by its very nature the relationship between such entities is usually uneven and the law should protect those weaker than abuse of position by stronger objects. Most of the most important philosophers and legislators of the whole history, culture and Latin civilization, from St. Thomas of Aquinas at the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u23	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The question to the applicants and, therefore, to the Minister: How do you assess what kind of actors this is? These are cooperative banks, savings and credit banks, loan companies that used this method of anatolyzm, counting interest on interest. How big do you think this is for today? Because we are talking about principle and we agree, but in order to know the scale of the phenomenon that we are regulating this bill, I would kindly ask for such information. And two: How did you collect this information when it comes to the birth of this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u25	Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to positive changes, this law also has negative consequences for borrowers. It may lead to an increase in the number of court cases and the costs of the courts, as well as to the burden of the legal costs of borrowers. In 2017, there was an increase in credit demand resulting in an increase in credit, but only a slight decrease in 2018. Thousands of cases relating to the bringing of actions by banks in respect of borrowers who are late in payment of interest may be brought before the courts. I wanted to ask briefly: Why has this project not been consulted with the banking community? Were they taken into account when working on the draft comments of the Sejm Analysis Office? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u27	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u28	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The position I'm going to present will be short, because also matter is not controversial. From what we have heard, it is clear that all those who have spoken were positive about the presidential initiative, and I will not be the exception here. There is no formal government position. On 30 November 2018, a proposal was sent to adopt such a position - a positive position prepared by the Ministry of Justice. I can only say from this point on that we very much welcome this initiative by the President. This is a step in the right direction, a step that eliminates the undoubted archaicism of the previous system, which unfortunately functions until today, until 2018, in the Civil Code, a step towards protecting the interests of weaker parties, consumers, a step towards eliminating unwarranted creditors' privileges. With regard to this thread, which has appeared here, concerning the burden of the courts, as the person responsible for the Minister of Justice for the administration of the courts, I consider this argument to be impossible. We do not foresee a greater burden on the courts for the entry into force of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u29	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of the Minister Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u30	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly for those voices of support which have been voiced here by all those who have so far supported the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland regarding the proposed amendment of the Civil Code. Of course, as rightly noted, this was mentioned, one of the exceptions to the prohibition of anatomy, this exception, which is the subjective preference of credit institutions, is not justified and this amendment of the Civil Code is an unjustified advantage for credit institutions. In answer to the questions that have arisen, I point out that as far as the concept of a credit institution is concerned, actually We have pointed out that there are controversies about how to understand this term. On the other hand, the prevailing view of doctrine, Judaism, indicates that we are talking about banks and the rule applies to banks. As far as the long-term loan is concerned, we have also pointed out that there are interpretational doubts as well. I was talking about this during the committee meeting, I was also talking at the first reading. As regards the issues related to the assessment of the scale as regards the impact of the change of law as regards the financial performance of banks - i.e. I also refer to Ms Krystyna Skowrońska's question - such hard data were also included in the letter of the President of the National Bank of Poland, where it was pointed out that the information from the banks confirms that the change in the removal of this provision of the article. 482 § 2 k.c., here the quote, will have little effect on their financial results and this is shown by the relatively small total value of all capitalised interest, i.e. approx. PLN 46 million, and a low ratio of these interest rates to the loan value, i.e. Approximately 0.04%. So this change of law is not a phenomenon that could have any significant impact on financial performance. So there are no threats or doubts here. As we have already said at the first reading, as Minister Łukasz Piebiak rightly pointed out, and as confirmed by the positions of the Supreme Bar Council and the National Judicial Council, the Minister of Justice's statement, we do not foresee any significant influence or increased number of court cases. This privilege is, of course, an archaism and a relic, this is a recipe that has been operating in Polish private law since 1965, because in this respect the Civil Code was unchanged. This will not contribute to any more court cases here we do not anticipate such risks. On the other hand, as regards questions related to the doubts of the Sejm Analysis Office, which in fact represented a very significant repetition of the arguments contained in the letter of the Polish Bank Association, one thing that was discussed was the question related to the article. 2, with the wording of this intertemporal provision. In our reasoning, the content or the current article. 2 contained in the original submission, or the one contained in the amendment to the bill, leads to the same result of interpretation. However, we do not oppose this amendment. This is the result of the discussion, which was also conducted with the legislators of the Sejm Analysis Office. So this proposal made by Mr Mark Ast on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is intended to clarify this inter-temporal regulation. In our opinion, whether it would be the original version or the version expressed in the amendment, the result of the interpretation would be the same, but if this is to remove any doubts, we do not see any contraindications for such clarification to take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats a position on the report of the committee on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Civil Code Act, prints no. 2876 and 3006. The project envisages eliminating interest rates, i.e. the so-called interest rates. Anatolysm. The proposal aims to remove from our legal system the exception to the ban on anatomy contained in the article. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code, the purpose of which is to eliminate the unjustified preference of credit institutions in the calculation of interest on late interest on the basis of this provision. Currently, the Civil Code provides for three exceptions to the prohibition of anatolycism. The first concerns the case where the parties have already agreed after the rise of interest on their capitalization. The second exception concerns the capital injections made after an outstanding interest claim has been brought. The third exception is subjective and refers to credit institutions. According to Art. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code is allowed to collect interest on late interest due on long-term loans granted by credit institutions. In the case of the first two exceptions, the requirement for the calculation of interest is that there is a backlog and, in the case of the third exception, such provision is permitted already in the long-term loan agreement. The debtor of a credit institution under a long-term loan agreement is therefore not protected on general terms against overly restrictive interest for late payment and the credit institution itself is privileged in legal transactions in this respect. One of the situations where anatolycism is currently applicable is the granting of a long-term loan by the credit institution. However, both of these terms are inaccurately explained, which in practice leads to a number of interpretational abuses and, consequently, too frequent application of loan interest capitalisations. This project aims to improve the position of consumers in their relations with banks and other credit institutions. Its introduction will counter the increase in the debt of clients of credit institutions and fall into the so-called. the debt loop for the possibility of making an appointment in advance for payment of interest on late interest, so-called. interest paid, without bringing an action. High Izbo! The proposed changes should be assessed positively, as they should reduce the practice of loan companies which often increase the burden on debtors in a way that insults all standards. The implementation of the Act will counter the increase in the debt of clients of credit institutions and fall into the so-called. the debt loop for the possibility of making an appointment in advance for payment of interest on late interest, so-called. the compound percentage. However, it should be borne in mind that the repeal of the Article. 482 § 2 will not result in a credit institution not being able to claim interest on outstanding interest, but will be subject to prior action.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u33	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no government representative, so I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 06 hours 11 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 (Print No 3054). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The regulations contained in this project are related to the implementation of this year's state budget and will allow for the allocation of part of the blocked funds by individual directors in accordance with the Public Finance Act for the purposes indicated in the draft law. These savings in planned expenditure are mainly due to the good labour market situation and the lower demand for subsidies from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund, as well as to the lower need for own resources from the European Union, which is mainly linked to the settlement in 2018 of overpayments for previous years by reducing monthly contributions. In fact, the Act restructures the expenditure of the State budget under the measures available under the blockades I mentioned, while at the same time does not change the macroeconomic parameters, i.e. does not increase the expenditure of the public finance sector and thus does not worsen the outcome of the public finance sector in 2018. Unlike in previous years, this change is precisely due to good economic situation and not to the need to increase the deficit limit of the state budget due to the economic situation. The savings we are talking about, according to the solutions we are designing, are to be spent, among others. for additional funds for the National Health Fund to increase the reserve fund of PLN 1.8 billion, which can be used by the National Health Fund after obtaining the approval of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health. In addition, with regard to the National Health Fund, we also provide for the possibility to provide a special grant to the NFZ of over PLN 320 million in 2018 to finance the tasks referred to in Article. Paragraph 97. 3 points 2a, 3 and 3b of the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. This provision aims to pay in lump sum for the provision of health care for persons who do not have health insurance and who should be provided under the provisions of that Law. This applies in particular to uninsured children. The project also includes provisions concerning the financing of mining restructuring of PLN 150 million and the increase of funds for the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for the implementation of aid to agricultural holdings and agricultural producers with damage caused by drought or flooding in the current year. It is planned to allocate PLN 715.5 million for this purpose. Another solution envisaged in the project is to allow the funds of PLN 1.8 billion to be allocated by the State Treasury to take over the shares of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA, which will improve the ownership structure, where the State Treasury consistently strives to cover 100% the national action of the railway infrastructure manager. The increase in share capital will also contribute to strengthening the company implementing investment projects under the government scheme. A provision is also proposed which provides for the possibility of allocating up to PLN 2100 million from the State budget to the Reprivatisation Fund referred to in the Commercialisation Act and certain rights of employees. This appropriation is intended to cover the implementation of statutory tasks and thus allow investment projects to be carried out, as an additional mechanism for an active economic impact. The project itself also provides for an amendment to the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund, which is to enable the granting of a special subsidy from the budget of the State from the budgetary section of which the Minister responsible for Transport is responsible for carrying out the tasks of the Fund in 2018. This action aims to start the operational functioning of the fund as soon as possible, which was created recently and thus reduce the expectation of the start of the investment process on local roads. The transfer of PLN 1100 million in 2018 will speed up this process. In addition, the proposal also proposes to increase the limit on State budget expenditure for the financing of statutory allowances for public transport by rail for parents and spouses of parents holding an important Large Family Charter by an amount of 274 000. of the amount of 18 260 thousand. up to the amount of 21 million. In conclusion, it is planned that the total transfers of appropriations under this year's budget for the implementation of the tasks mentioned in the draft law will amount to about PLN 8 billion. The regulations presented in the draft law do not jeopardise the performance of the tasks of the directors, but will allow for a more efficient use of funds in this year's state budget. As I have said, the transfer of these funds does not change the deficit of the public finance sector, and I therefore ask the High House to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u35	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The aim of the proposed statutory amendments is to provide an opportunity for the transfer from the State budget of funds to carry out important public tasks still this financial year. This is due to a very good budgetary position, it is a good economic situation and we should be glad that we can still mobilise additional resources this year. One at a time. In addition to point 1 of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 29a additional funds of PLN 1800 million for the National Health Fund are proposed to complement the reserve fund for the planned costs of health care services, i.e. a noble objective. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 38a a special grant of over PLN 320 million is foreseen for the National Health Fund. The following article is inserted: 29b aims to extend the funding period from the state budget of the restructuring process of the hard coal mining sector by 2023. This provision will allow for the efficient use of the measures planned in the 2018 budget law for the restructuring of the sector. In the new article. 29c proposes to transfer additional funds from the State budget in the form of a special subsidy to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture for aid to agricultural holdings affected by the damage caused by drought and flooding this year. For this purpose, the government proposes an additional... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ... 715 500 thousand. zł, i.e. we are dealing with an unprecedented scale of aid to farmers affected by natural disasters. The following article is inserted: 29d will allow the Treasury to include shares of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA by transferring funds from the state budget under the special reserve. The increase in share capital will contribute to strengthening the company implementing important investment projects under the government programme. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 29e proposes the possibility of allocating up to PLN 2100 million from the State budget to the Reprivatisation Fund. These measures will allow important investment projects to be implemented under the mechanism of active impact on the Polish economy. Added in point 2 of Article. 34a will make it possible to secure for the current financial year the financing of expenditure on allowances for reduced travel by public collective transport for parents holding a valid Large Family Card of not more than 18 260 000. zł. Art. 38b will allow the operational operation of the Local Roads Fund to start as soon as possible, which will shorten the expectation of the start of the investment process on local roads. This provision will allow for the transfer of a special grant from the State budget of PLN 1100 million still this financial year. Adding an article. 38c will make it possible to demand funding resulting from the decision to amend the financial plan, to change the limit of the daily appropriations, etc. By this provision, we decide that the appropriations for special grants for which a longer period than the end of 2018 is foreseen in this draft law are the same as those laid down in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers issued pursuant to Article. 181 of 27 August 2009 on public finances. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice considers the proposed amendments to be fully justified and will support this bill by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u38	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing to be happy about. With regard to the addition to point 3 of Article. 38d the government points out in the explanatory memorandum that savings will come from delays in the performance of tasks, so we delay the performance of tasks by a whole year, we block the resources. We have about 8 billion zlotys, and what? And at the very end of the year we say that this money is spent on certain tasks, but on tasks later. First of all, scandalous mode. Today is December 5th, and none of this money will be spent anytime soon. This money will be transferred to the accounts of individual institutions and tasks, firstly, as the government points out, with delay, and secondly, only in 2019. And we can't agree to this kind of action. Secondly, you are trying to reduce the deficit in this regard. We do not agree with this because if you were to reduce the deficit and move one step at a time, we would come to such a mechanism that eventually the State would reduce VAT and would not disappear from taxpayers' pockets about PLN 8 billion a year. We don't agree to that. And now I'm going to move on to specific expenses and budget accumulation. So we have money for the National Health Fund. You're spending 1800 million. That'll be the money spent next year. During 2018, there were many conflicts, many tensions, many protests. Money won't be used. We don't know how the hospital network law worked, the one you were very proud of. The money is needed, but it's not spent. We still have many problems in health care, among others. you do not increase the cost of benefits, inflation increases, prices increase, among others. energy prices, it is also about hospitals. This should be done in advance. Within the scope of e.g. the restructuring of the mining industry, you approve of it. This process is extended by 3 years. For this purpose, 10.5 billion PLN was to be spent by 2020, of which the cost of restructuring production tasks is 5.5 billion and 3.5 billion is related to the cost of employees' claims. You are failing to do this because you want to extend this process for another three years. We said that there was not enough money for farmers' payments related to the damage caused by the drought. And these aren't the largest amounts. 800 million zlotys so far and 715 are not the largest amounts now, Mr Nobleman. The Civic Platform government paid over 3 billion a year after major floods. We paid attention to the deadline for paying the amounts, and it was not until the end of September that you made this decision. If we're going to talk about a local road trick, you're giving 1100 million zlotys this year. What about next year? You're reducing to 500 million expenditure on the construction of local roads. It's a pure PR trick, money won't be used. In terms of resources, among others. connected with the acquisition of shares in PKP PLK, this may be a good intention, maybe it is well, you may have savings, but please tell us what projects will be implemented. Me and the others haven't been able to ask how much money you're planning to use to buy a queue for Kasprowy Wierch - a short question. So how will you deal with this problem? We can support some of the tasks related to the Large Family Charter, but we generally say that you are making bookmarks for 2019. You do not carry out your tasks, you delay the performance of your tasks, to which you acknowledge yourself in the explanatory memorandum. We cannot agree that, through such tricks, the deficit will not be reduced in 2018 and that expenditure can be well planned, it is December 5th. We do not agree to such a solution and we apply to reject this project so as not to debate it, but to discuss it calmly in the implementation of the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or with the 2019 budget plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u39	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u40	And that's the motion for rejection I'm putting in the hands of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u41	Please, Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak, but this will not be a funny voice, although it should be funny. In the beginning, I will immediately say that I am joining or as a club we are joining the motion just now submitted, to reject this project at first reading, for several important reasons. I will start by saying that I am very happy that the head of the National Health Fund is here - he is temporarily busy, I understand, I am glad that he is paying attention to women, which is not common these days - because I would like to address the issue of the new funds to be allocated to the NFZ. Never enough for health, of course, but I would very much like to ask that these funds be allocated to a large number of new psychiatrists. And why do we need psychiatrists? Because if we look at this proposal that has been put forward here, we'll see that without good psychiatric treatment, we can't understand it. [[What are you saying? What are you saying?]] Please note what we are doing. By the way, I'm gonna file a motion for the CBA to take care of this later. We spend huge money on the Reprivatisation Fund to buy this Reprivatisation Fund from the State Treasury to the Treasury. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Because that's what it's for. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, I'll tell you why.]] After all, the Reprivatization Fund is to be strengthened to buy from the Polish Railway Lines. 13% in this company has PKP, and PKP is a single-member company of the State Treasury, i.e. from the State Treasury we will buy these shares to nationalise Polish Railway Lines, which are indirectly state-owned. What's going on here? I said, what's going on here? It's either creative accounting or a scam, because you can't buy something from yourself that doesn't really exist at all, for example, because it's a typical example of maneuvering accounting positions, which doesn't work, but weakens the most important thing. The Reprivatisation Fund was set up to cover the claims of people who were once taken away from property. I'm asking if the Treasury will cover itself with someone taking something from him. Seriously, this is a misunderstanding. The fact that in the case of this law we accept the right solutions: strengthening the National Health Fund by means of the National Health Fund, strengthening the family card, giving more resources to those affected by drought, etc., is a cover, beautiful, pretty, but a cover to do something completely incomprehensible, and certainly totally senseless. That is why I would call on everyone to come to their senses and not to live in a country of creative accounting, but to live in a normal country where when you take something from someone, you compensate for it. Here, however, we have an example of the flow of funds through some accounts within the corresponding budget headings, which we do not know what they are meant to serve. And here's my question. I would very much ask someone to explain to me what this whole reprivatization fund maneuver is supposed to do, which is very little willing to actually cover where someone's been taken. I am returning to the matter of the National Health Fund, because of course our health care will consume all the money, whatever we can direct, there it is certainly possible to put it, the question is whether it will strengthen, improve the quality of medical services with us, because it is already a completely different matter. The National Health Fund has limited resources, but the problem is that we are not doing a health reform because what we did was not a reform. Therefore, even if the National Health Fund has an additional 300 billion, it will not be able to actually improve our health service without a thorough reform of the system, and this thorough reform of the system is certainly not included in this law, as we know. Therefore, in order not to take longer time, to move funds, the fact that you are planning badly budgetly and therefore you have to make some moves now is a normal thing, unpleasant but normal, while noble, good pulls, i.e. to increase resources for various positive purposes, i.e. self-government roads, the Large Family Charter, covering losses due to the effects of drought, mining, etc., etc., cannot cover a deeply suspicious activity that serves only creative accounting and nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, That's true, the form of proceding this law is scandalous, and the fact that you're giving away money that you could give back to your citizens, two weeks ago, reducing VAT from January, because it's about the same amount, too. This shows how you think. You don't want to do anything for your citizens, you just want to addict them to each other and buy their assets. And that's really the point of this amendment. Because apart from the fact that we actually have an increase in funds for overwork on the Big Family Charter, what's the most important thing in this bill? PLN 4 billion - not PLN 2 billion, Mr 4 billion - to buy property for the Treasury. What we have here is, among other things. 1800 million to be taken up by the State Treasury in PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA shares, but also an additional 2100 million in order to transfer money to the Reprivatisation Fund for tasks, indicating what even in the explanatory memorandum is clearly written, commercialization and privatisation, i.e. the possibility of implementing with the funds of the Reprivatization Fund investment objectives in respect of public companies or capital companies in respect of which the public company is a dominant enterprise. And now you could say that just the minister gets 2 billion zlotys for shopping - that's the question - whether the banners or the local media, or what the government wants. This is PLN 2 billion to expropriate citizens. Of course, you will say: But here is the record that it is only about capital companies in which a public company is a dominant enterprise. However, we know the possibilities and the way this government works. The deletion of this minor entry in the Reprivatization Fund Act is an hour's work for you in this room. I have no doubt that the 2 billion zlotys that are going to the Reprivatization Fund today are the money that you want to extort citizens and buy their assets. And this is actually the main and most dangerous point in the whole of this amendment, which was late last night, of course not in accordance with certain legislative rules... [[Don't scream like that. Keep your voice down. Keep your voice down.]] The Member doesn't mind. ...entered the Sejm and now you want to vote on the tape. You don't want any money on the Big Family Charter of PLN 3 million because you guys moved it a long time ago. It's not about any money for the Self-Government Road Fund, because that's what you could have done. It's a good thing there's money going to the NFZ to overexecute, but it's a scandal how you allow small county hospitals to fall, which are already massively raising protests because they're getting worse and worse. Things like overdoing should never happen, because that means you're forcing district hospitals and voivodship hospitals to break the law, to break public finances, because they're making commitments to treat citizens they don't have money for. Something like this shouldn't happen at all. This was to end after the change in the method of funding for lump sums, of course the mess is even bigger. We hear that the county hospitals want to be part of a network of hospitals because they're simply marginalized and further depreciated by you. However, as I said, I expect a government representative to leave now and tell here who and what he wants to buy for this 2 billion PLN, because that is really what this amendment is all about. We have already had laws that allow you to take over this formally, today we just have a law that gives you money - 2 billion PLN to expropriate citizens. And that's not gonna happen to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u45	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also want to put forward a position on this project, but before I proceed to its substantive assessment, I would like to draw attention to the procedure. Although the print containing the draft is dated 29 November, the draft appeared yesterday after hours on the agenda of the Sejm. 21. Today is his first reading, at noon - committee meeting and tomorrow's second reading. He's supposed to fly through the Sejm in air mode like this. For these reasons, my dears, this is unacceptable. This is just outrageous. And I haven't seen any information yet, but it's no consultation, I don't even know if it was interministerial. [[No.]] In addition, there is no Legal Office of the Sejm, from the Office for the Analysis of the Sejm's opinions on this project. So because of this procedure of procedure, the lack of consultation, as my predecessors have signed up to the motion to reject this project at first reading. The project is generally prepared very carelessly. He's incomprehensible, illegible. And that's a pity, because the very form of redirection at the end of the year would be justified and there would be no reservations or doubts about it. However, not in such performance, in view of such procession and preparation of this project. According to the project, the amount for development is relatively high, almost PLN 8 billion. This large amount, unfortunately neither the project nor the attached justification of the government contains, does not indicate any of the items from which the funds come for new distribution. It sounds like a little bit of a play-by-player or a government game blind with a parliament. And this presentation of this project, without a clear source of resources, is, I believe, disregard for Members, disregard for the Sejm, disregard for the High House. The origin of the funds to be distributed is an essential element. Even a deliberate indication of the use of funds cannot be a justification and motive for drafting a bill. Today's speech by the Minister, also very laconic, does not tell us what the origin of these measures is. And so these questions, they themselves say: Where do these funds come from saved or blocked, where savings occurred and why, and where they were blocked in accordance with the budget law and also why? As regards the allocation of funds, some of the items submitted should be considered reasonable. I will say here, as my predecessors said: Of course, this subsidy to the ARIMR is justified, because no one can predict drought or flood disasters and these measures cannot be defined in the plan. Similarly, when it comes to strengthening the National Health Fund - the needs are indeed always large in health care, so 1800 million is justified, but the question arises between who, precisely, and on what basis these funds will be distributed. We also consider it appropriate to transfer funds to the holders of the Large Family Charter, which is justified. On the other hand, the restructuring of hard coal mining raises serious doubts, especially in the context of the ecological summit that is taking place. The same is true for the Reprivatization Fund - a large amount, because 2100 million - and 1800 million to be taken up by the State Treasury in the company PKP PLK. Also with regard to local roads, some changes have been made - another 1100 million for the current year, but only 500 million have already come. It is reasonable to move flexibly, to extend certain tasks until 31 March. We would not have any comments here, because this is particularly appropriate for investments. However, as I was saying, it's an inexplicability, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where the funds come from and even only the procedure itself qualifies this project to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u47	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Public finances, i.e. Poles' money, require special care, but also transparency, so that Poles can know how this money is used at every stage. Is this bill, which significantly changes the spending of 8 billion PLN at the end of the year, transparent? Of course not, certainly not. The lack of information on where the funds from which the unfulfilled tasks, as already mentioned, came from and for which they will be specifically intended, raises serious doubts. And if I add to that, how the targeted reserves are resolved, in an accelerated manner, how the financial plans are changed, unfortunately there is a clear lack of respect for public finances, lack of respect for Poles' money. I want to ask you specifically about the money that will be transferred to the National Health Fund. I am not questioning this purpose of expenditure, but I ask for a specific answer, because there is no justification for this, for which tasks this money will be allocated. Hospitals are in debt, there's no money for benefits, queues are growing. Who will receive this money and when will it be divided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba has the floor. I don't see your MP. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First of all, who will bear the responsibility for the tasks that you write that have not been carried out within the deadline, and has Prime Minister Morawiecki already taken such measures to punish those ministers who do not carry out their tasks on time? Secondly, the question to the Minister of Health, how will the 1800 million PLN be divided after the nurse strikes, after the doctor strikes? Will the devils finally see it? And when will there be a revision of the National Health Fund's financial plan for 2018 taking into account these measures? We have bad experience with dentobuses and with this project, which was implemented at the end of last year. Who will bear, Minister, the responsibility for late payments to farmers related to drought of PLN 800 million? The Minister should be responsible for the fact that during the field work, farmers did not have money. Minister, who will bear the responsibility and will we get such information that ministers are responsible for the timely execution of their duties? Will you apply the policy in this regard: the Minister does not implement the project, but has prizes for it? The Minister has awards, and the Sejm in express mode, Marshal - one day... And President Kaczyński says, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that Members should be punished - a reduction in salaries. Is this the way the government works, that it robs Poles of 8 billion as with VAT? The situation is good because... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...that's 34 new taxes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u51	Thank you, Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have asked many questions in my basic speech, but I would like to return to these funds for the payment of aid to farmers due to drought and floods. That's quite a large sum - 715 500 thousand. And I would like to ask if these are the same funds that were not used this year, because we remember perfectly how you delayed their payment. Aid to farmers has been constantly shifted and shifted, you have delayed this payment, you have not taken into account that the measures still have to comply with the de minimis aid requirements. And is that why you are forced to transfer funds for the year that came to the end of the first quarter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the plan to increase the resources for the implementation of the tasks of the National Health Fund by PLN 1800 million, a review of the implementation of the allocation of funds within the network of hospitals will also be carried out. It seems that the very good reform plan is largely laid down by the allocation of funds to many who should not receive them. As a result, the facilities necessary to ensure the health protection of inhabitants of individual cities and powiats suffer from underfunding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is this PLN 715 million, which is foreseen for aid to farmers affected by natural disasters, that is, additional appropriations for those foreseen in the budget - 1,5 A billion zlotys? In my opinion, these are additional resources. Is it true that this is a record aid to farmers over the past few years as regards aid to farmers to compensate for lost income from disasters? And also about the State Treasury company. Mr. Chairman was plotting, winding up some ruse here, talking about some flow, some creative accounting. Is the fact that the state owns a large national company, that's the flow out of a private pocket, that's what they said here, to some strange creation? Is it private property or property of citizens? In my opinion, state Treasury companies are the property of all citizens, and it is not the delivery of public money to no one knows where. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: To the private wallets of friends of PiS.]] [[Voice from the room: A, private.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u57	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know very well that the alternative to this project is a smaller deficit of the state budget and it is worth noting that in 2018 14 European countries intend to end with surplus, close with surplus budget. We are not taking advantage of the apparent opportunities for this deficit and, therefore, for debt to be reduced, and we have a clearly upcoming crisis on the horizon. We should take this opportunity, in our opinion, to use - 8 billion PLN, because we are talking about this amount. At the same time, it seems to me to justify the law itself, because this 8 billion, you will find, will not affect the performance of the tasks. It's a miracle, in fact. The tasks will be carried out without PLN 8 billion. We could probably all wish for such successes, but unfortunately we do not know what tasks are being blocked for a good cause and where these savings have emerged. I'm serious. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Concerns that these are investments that have been the Achilles heel of this government for several years and which decide on future growth. Question: "Isn't this all happening at the expense of the investment?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u59	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate, a very important debate, because about how and what citizens' money is spent on, listens to students and teachers from the School Team. National Army in Jastkowice. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u60	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reading into the bill we're working on today, I wonder, Minister, if it's St. Santa Claus, however, is creative accounting. For us Members who work in the Committee on Public Finance, it is clear that if we are planning certain expenses, we must also indicate where these funds are collected from. You're either laconically, or you're not responding at all to whether it's extra income or you're reducing or eliminating other reserves. I would not like to discuss expenditure proposals here, because I think they are mostly right, although there are many questions about what they relate to. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you about the cost of PLN 1800 million for health care. For many months now, here, from the speaker and also in letters to the Minister of Health, I ask whether the Minister of Health provides for a level playing field for individual voivodships, which simply have underfunded health funds. Such a voivodship is the voivodship of Opolskie. There are about 120 million zlotys missing today. Hence my question to the Minister: Is there any provision for compensation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] inequalities between different voivodships? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to clarify my question precisely about PLN 2100 million, because for me personally this point in the whole amendment is not a coincidence and is the most interesting. What exactly are you going to use that money for? Because buying out, as you said here, leftovers in the Treasury companies where you already have a dominant position does not make any sense. Because if, in a given capital company, the State is the parent, it has the main voting rights, it has a majority stake and buying additional shares at the hands of its citizens does not make any sense. This is only a waste of citizens' money, which could be used for example. to overexercise in health care to an even greater extent. Second thing. I wanted to ask: Why is it only now that the government has decided to allocate extra money to the Large Family Charter, to overexecute or to combat the effects of drought and floods in agriculture? It's unacceptable that we won't spend that money by the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u63	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u64	I'm gonna start by asking questions about overconfessing, 'cause my friend told me. Namely - this is probably a question to the head of the National Health Fund - is there any chance that after the transfer of these new funds to the NFZ there will be fewer cases when it is necessary to go to court in the case of over-executions? And that's how it's gonna end. Isn't it better to settle this out of court, not to charge the courts and not to charge the parties with the costs involved? But my question really concerns the basic thing that my colleague has told me about Mr Nobleman's statement, which I no longer see here. Namely, companies of the State Treasury are to be companies of the State Treasury, not companies of the Party Treasury. So the question is, do we support these measures? Party treasure companies? If so, we would like to oppose it. Second question, more importantly: Is this hidden help for the PKP? Is all this buy-out maneuver 13% - we don't know if the whole 13% , but some part which PKP has in the Polish Railway Lines - i.e. the purchase from the one-man company of the Treasury of the State of these shares, is not a form of aid? In this case, it would be breaking the law. So the question is: Isn't this hidden help for the PKP? There was also a very important question here: What specific projects [[♪ The bell ♪]] are to be implemented for those 2.1 billion PLN which are to be transferred to the Reprivatisation Fund, and therefore is this legal action? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u65	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Bittel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to deny that the formula that you have just described is going to take place at all. 1,000 800,000. from the special reserve, not from the Reprivatization Fund, from the special reserve - it is quite clearly written in the Act - it is intended for the recapitalisation of the Polish Railway Lines PKP. The State Treasury will include additional capital values, which will be issued by PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. [[That's not what it says in the explanatory memorandum. It says in the explanatory memorandum that there will be a buy-out... that's what it says in the explanatory statement.]] No, it's not. That's first of all, that's right. It's a mechanism. The purpose of this recapitalisation is to investigate the structure of 100% - of course, by increasing the structure of participation - the ownership of the State Treasury in a company which has a unique position on the market, because it is a national infrastructure manager. Its form and function are also described by Union directives which ensure its specific position on the market. Such activities have taken place and will take place, all the more so as we will carry out something that no one has done so far despite the law: the import of PKP's property to the Polish Railway Line PKP, which is also due to legal obligation. That's kind of the first line. Second thing. As far as the Large Family Charter is concerned, it is obvious that this is happening at the moment, because an analysis of the execution has been carried out. The analysis of the implementation shows that measures may run out of resources and that these measures are therefore supplemented and that is the secret of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u67	Thank you, Minister. If you don't mind, because I don't know if the Minister has referred to the question of what the money is going to go for - 2,1 billion PLN, which go to the Reprivatisation Fund. You don't know? Well, maybe one of the next ministers will answer, we'd be very grateful. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Sławomir Gadomski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u68	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try very synthetically to answer these questions, although at least as far as the first questions are concerned, Mrs Czernow and Mrs Skowronska, I would like to make a brief introduction. The short introduction is really linked to the consideration of this increase in the backup plan and the allocation of these resources as a whole - the whole of the changes that took place in 2018 and which will take place in 2019. It must be seen that the original plan, the cost of the NFZ benefits, amounted to 78.6 billion for 2018. Today it is almost 3 billion more, it is 81.5 billion PLN. These funds partly came from an increase in the financial plan in June this year, and partly, in the amount of 1.3 billion, from the mobilisation of the reserve fund, which took place in September this year. The funds from this reserve fund were primarily intended to shorten queues in outpatient specialist care, to shorten queues in the field of cataracts, endoprosoplasty, were also used - it has already appeared here - to increase salaries mainly of doctors specialists and nurses. However, it should be noted that this 1.8 billion to be mobilised from the fund next year is partly a complement to what was launched this year and what went in a huge part to increase the scope of benefits. But we also need to talk about something that is inextricably linked to this, i.e. an increase in the financial plan of the NFZ for the next year. Today's plan is, the cost of benefits amounts to PLN 83.7 billion, which is actually more than 5 billion compared to the original 2018 plan. It would seem appropriate to say that this is the mobilisation of the reserve fund next year - or, as a complement to this and the possibility of launching it in the future - will actually depend on the extent to which the 2019 financial plan will be implemented. However, it can already be said today that all decisions relating to increasing these measures will serve primarily four fundamental objectives - firstly, the continuation of actions related to shortening queues, mainly in terms of cost-intensive benefits, imaging diagnostics, in large part, shortening queues in the field of cataracts, endoprosoplasty, strengthening AOS, pilots, in particular initiated this year in cardiology, in a moment in oncology, in Trombectomy, as well as valuation of benefits in certain areas, in particular oncology, but not only in pediatrics, valuation of first-time benefits in the field of outpatient specialist care. Responding in part to Mr Galla's question, which concerned how these funds will be divided into voivodships and whether they will be covered with some holes, on the example of Opole Voivodship - it seems to me that this is not a good example to indicate this voivodship as the one in which these funds are missing to some extent, greater than in other voivodships. It seems to me that voivodships, which for various reasons can be considered as those for which one should consider a stream of resources, are voivodships in which cumulation or number of providers is the largest: Mazowieckie voivodship, Śląskie voivodship. However, when returning to the question about the backup fund and its potential mobilisation in 2019, the backup fund or funds from this fund do not need to be divided according to the algorithm, i.e. in a sense you can take into account the situation in individual voivodships and if such differences are noticeable, this will definitely happen. And one last question, Mr Dlugi... [[But when will it be done, Minister?]] The reserve fund will be launched in 2019 at the earliest once the year 2018 has been cleared. For a good cause only around April 2019 we will know to what extent we are talking about the execution of 2018, about the failures or... [[And no algorithm.]] If the funds from the reserve fund are activated, they can be run without an algorithm. In answer to Mr Grzegorz Długi's question, it is worth noting that in fact already this year, 2018, more than PLN 1 billion has been allocated for payment of over-executions for 2017 and previous years. This is what the policy of payment shows, not of entering into - as it was - senseless litigation. I think that today is a stage too early to answer the question of what it will look like in 2018, because it is unfinished and unaccounted for, so I also think that, for a good cause around April 2019, we will know what the issue of over-executions for 2018 looks like and whether or not the funds of the backup fund that we are discussing today will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u69	Thank you, Minister. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! More than 300 thousand, 338 thousand were submitted to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as at 28 November. applications for subsidies to agricultural producers in which agricultural holdings damage to agricultural crops caused by drought or flooding in 2018 within the meaning of the rules on agricultural and livestock insurance established on a growing area of at least 30% of the crop concerned for the amount of 2 1999996 000. Aid applications for damage to crops of 70% and more - there were over 92 thousand of them. for the amount of 593 529 000. [[But it may not be...]] Aid applications for crop damage from 30 to less than 70% - over 245,000. applications for an amount of 1606 million. By 28 November 2018, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture paid over 180 000 aid. beneficiaries for more than 1352 000. zł, which represents 100% amounts planned for grants in 2018 In view of the exhaustion of the de minimis aid limit and the need to provide additional appropriations for the implementation of this aid, more than 1397 million will be implemented after 1 January 2019. And this is the grant of PLN 715 million that will allow all these proposals to be implemented. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One basic difference, which was between the previous aid and the one which is implemented in 2018. For the first time in history something like this happened, that so-called. State aid, i.e. de minimis aid limit, has been exhausted during the year precisely because of the government's so-called aid. dried. And that's why it happened that for the first time we've laid down this regulation of the Council of Ministers... Because so far, in order to receive such aid, it was necessary to determine a minimum of 30% of the loss on the farm, taking into account the plant production and animal production. [[But we know it.]] And this year, for the first time, something happened that was directed the aid, if there was no loss, there was a 30% loss on the entire farm with animal production. Public aid was paid with 30% losses in plant production alone. Hence the exhaustion of this public aid. At the same time, according to data from the county offices, over 6371 thousand were paid to the beneficiaries on 28 November 333. zł. It's called the so-called. ponds and management of freshwater fish farming or farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u71	Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To answer the last of the questions, first of all, I wanted to answer the question of how these measures came about, because here there were voices that it had not been explained. I mean, the money comes from a blockage in the state budget. The mechanism is that funds which, according to the Public Finance Act, will not be used in the State budget, may be blocked in accordance with that law, i.e. it is known that these expenditures will no longer be made in a given year. First of all, these blockades, as I said in my first speech, relate to the funds allocated to the Social Insurance Fund. That is because of the very good situation on the labour market, the FUS does not need to be co-financed from the State budget in this respect and, therefore, the measures that were planned for the payment of benefits by the FUS will not be implemented. Therefore, the ZUS has blocked these measures. In addition, as I also said, measures have been blocked in connection with the non-fulfilment of... [[Voice from the room: Investment.]] Not an investment, sir, but not a full contribution to the European Union, because this contribution was overpaid last year. The mechanism is that the premium shall be reduced in the following year if that contribution exceeds the amounts foreseen for the year in question. Because for the previous year we had overpaid this contribution, this year the measures that were foreseen may also be blocked. The funds of PLN 1 billion for the service of national debt were also blocked due to the steadily decreasing level of the Treasury debt. Of course, there are more roadblocks. These are the main ones. Some tasks, of course, as Mrs Skowrońska said, have not been carried out, but these are not tasks of the same scale as the one I was talking about in the case of the Social Security Office or contributions to the European Union. These are normal savings that always arise. With annual budgets of PLN 20, 30, 40 billion, savings of this kind are always generated at certain points, and these unrealised expenditures are being blocked by individual directors and put at the disposal of the Minister of Finance. So that they come from this, this is the source of this amendment. Therefore, it is difficult to answer the question of who will suffer the consequences for unfulfilled tasks. I mean, as far as these are tasks that are naturally not realized or that are natural savings, it is obviously difficult to talk about responsibility here. If this is really something that requires this kind of action, then the Prime Minister can, of course, always have consequences, but we do not see in the case of such tasks, to be honest, within the framework of these blockades which are foreseen here, within the framework of this project, that there may be some special omissions from the directors and the non-fulfilment of investments in particular. That is also what Mr Silchoń asked. As regards the deficit of the state budget and what Mr Silchoń also asked, i.e. that most countries or a large part of countries - maybe not most, but a large part - will have a surplus in the state budget, as I said, whether there is a surplus in the state budget itself or not, this deficit parameter of the state budget itself is not the most important in the context of the sustainability of all public finances. The most important is the public finance sector deficit, and in this respect this amendment does not foresee a deterioration of the outcome of the public finance sector, because in fact all these transfers are shifts within the public finance sector, i.e. between the state budget and those in the public finance sector. Therefore, these flows do not result in an increase in the deficit of the public finance sector, which is precisely the parameter to which the European Commission particularly draws attention, which may be implementing appropriate procedures if such parameters are exceeded. As for the 2.1 billion for the Reprivatisation Fund, what these funds are allocated to, it is difficult to agree that buying out the remaining shares in the State Treasury companies makes no sense when the State Treasury already owns 50% of the shares in the company. action or enough action to have a decisive vote. Of course, the entire ownership structure of the company affects, for example, the revenue of the state budget, i.e. dividends or profit payments received from these companies, provided that the State Treasury owns them. Of course, these measures or good management of these companies, the good results of these companies also affect the structure of the state budget and the revenue to the state budget, so that it is difficult to agree that buying such shares does not make sense. In addition, a list of investments in key sectors of the economy is being prepared in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is located in the Responsible Development Strategy. These are the sectors that have the greatest impact on economic development. I do not know how to give specific titles or specific company names, because these works are still ongoing, but it will be the funds intended to increase the capital of these entities, which are crucial for the Responsible Development Strategy and thus for the development of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u73	Thank you, Minister. In corrigendum - Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u74	Thank you, Marshal. Before I get to the corrigendum, I'd like to say hello to the guests present at the Forest Gallery from Lower Silesia. We cordially welcome you to Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u75	Greetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u76	And now it's a corrigendum. Minister, you haven't answered any questions skillfully. Will the Minister of Agriculture punish those responsible for late transfer of drought funds? What kind of companies... I think I'm joining your Marshal's question. Which companies will you buy with this money, 2,1 A billion? It is surprising that the National Health Fund's money will be split freely, not according to the algorithm, and therefore the question whether the diagnes, many times so skillfully avoided by the countries protesting... You promise them... Will the diagnes as one of the smallest, the least numerous groups remain in this area [[♪ The bell ♪]] by you guys? Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u77	Thank you, Member. Would the Minister like to refer to you again? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In that case, the discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal after the examination of item 3 of the agenda has been completed. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft act on promoting electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration (print No. 3052). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a draft law on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, contained in print No. 3052. The aim of the proposed law is to implement a new support mechanism for high-efficiency cogeneration electricity, which is to replace a system based on certificates of origin which expires at the end of this year. The proposed mechanism will ensure both the stimulation of the construction of new cogeneration units, as support for units with a total capacity of 5.1 is envisaged in the perspective of 2028. GW electric and maintenance of electricity production from high-efficiency cogeneration in existing units which could not function without support due to a financial gap in operating costs. The proposed support system will be dedicated to a large extent for the construction of cogeneration units with installed electricity capacity of up to 50 MWe. However, the mechanism also provides for the possibility of supporting production in larger units, i.e. over 50 MW, e.g. due to the need to replace older sources working for large district heating systems scheduled to be discontinued as a result of the end of the so-called period. district heating derogation from the Industrial Emissions Directive, newer ones, with lower emissions of CO2, SOx, NOx, dust and other substances. One of the main objectives of implementing the new mechanism is the need to improve the air quality in cities, which can be ensured through the development of system heating based on the least emission source. Therefore, the support for all electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration, which has been put on the grid and sold, will concern cogeneration units which provide a minimum of 70% utility heat from cogeneration to the public heating network. For entry units less than 70% the heat generated will be supported by electricity in proportion to the share of heat introduced into the grid in the heat produced. In addition, support will only be granted to those units for which the unit carbon dioxide emission factor, so-called. The EPS will be a maximum of 450 kg CO2 per MWh produced energy, i.e. combined electricity and heat. The support instrument will be - and here are several instruments - first, the guaranteed bonus. She's gonna have a little one, I mean. less than 1 MW, cogeneration units, both new and significantly upgraded and upgraded existing. It will also benefit existing and upgraded cogeneration units from a power range of 1 to 50. It shall be granted after the operator of the unit has made an appropriate request and has examined it by the President of the URE. The individual guarantee premium in the case of existing and upgraded cogeneration units will be above 50 MW, which will be calculated individually by the President of the URE and granted after the operator has submitted an appropriate application. The cogeneration premium for new and significantly upgraded cogeneration units from capacity range 1 to 50 MWe will be available under the auction procedure, which must be preceded by a pre-qualification of the unit concerned. The individual cogeneration premium applies to new units and significantly upgraded cogeneration units, above 50 MWe. It is possible to obtain it under the recruitment procedure, in which it will be calculated individually by the President of the URE. It must also be preceded by a pre-qualification of the individual in this procedure. In addition, aid for cogeneration units with installed electricity capacity above 300 MW will be subject to individual notification to the European Commission. Support will be provided for new and significantly modernised cogeneration units for a period of 15 years, and for upgraded cogeneration units for a period of between 5 and 7 years, this period will depend on the level of expenditure on modernisation investments. In the case of existing cogeneration units, a maximum of 15 years from the date on which the first certificate of origin from cogeneration was obtained in the past, but this calculation will be excluded from the calculation, there will be a period of interruption in the functioning of the system of certificates of origin in 2013 and at the beginning of 2014. The bill provides for appropriate solutions to prevent oversupport, among others. prevents the combination of different operational support schemes for the same electricity unit and takes into account the investment aid received, i.e. in the case of premiums which also cover the capital expenditure incurred. The support system will be financed by the cogeneration fee of electricity system operators, which is different from today's. This also means that the operating costs of the system support will be shown transparently on the electricity bill. The revenue from these charges will be transferred by operators to the clearing operator responsible for clearing fees and payment of support. The fees will be fixed annually by the Minister for Energy by means of a regulation based on the level of the operating costs of the system. In 2019 the rate of the cogeneration levy, taking into account the discount for energy-intensive enterprises, will be PLN 1,58/1 MWh. Here it is worth mentioning that this amount is many times lower than the unit cost of today's functioning support system. The support mechanism implemented in the draft law was subject to agreements with the European Commission. The prenotification process has been carried out, so it is not something that will surprise the European Commission, but the work is already completed. In conclusion, I will say that the implementation of a new electricity support mechanism from high-efficiency cogeneration enabling the further development of cogeneration in Poland will significantly affect the security of electricity supply to the national electricity system and heat to customers connected to heating systems, as well as the improvement of air quality. It is very important that the contested law can enter into force from 1 January 2019 and make it possible to exploit the potential of high-efficiency cogeneration by maintaining production in units for which support is necessary to function, due to the financial gap mentioned above and to avoid what took place in 2013 and early 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u79	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on promoting electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, print No. 3052. According to the project we have the possibility to double the production of heat in cogeneration thanks to the change of heating boilers to cogeneration units. This action will result in a reduction in emissions to the atmosphere, for example because the efficiency of simultaneous production of heat and electricity is about 50%. higher than in the case of their separate manufacture. It is also important that heating or cooling systems in Poland are mostly inefficient. It is worth mentioning that according to the data of the Chamber of Commerce, Poland's heating industry shows that its members, which will deliver about 85% heat in Poland, only around 20% meet the criteria for energy efficient heating or cooling systems. The bill will therefore be tasked with e.g. support for long-term actions aimed at increasing the share of energy-efficient cold or heat generators. The concentration of support mainly on units with up to 50 MW capacity and procedural facilitation for installations up to 1 MW will contribute to the development of energy efficient heating systems in smaller urban agglomerations. Importantly, the operational support system based on a system of certificates of origin is currently in place to ensure that the targets for the production of high-efficiency cogeneration electricity are met. The level of support depends on production volume. This system operated on the basis of the original rules in 2007 and 2012 and by amending the Energy Law adopted in 2014 it was restored and extended until the end of 2018. The project defines new cogeneration units, sets out the rules for conducting auctions and takes into account the principles of their competitiveness. The proposed support for investors is 15 years. Auctions are preceded by a pre-qualified stage. According to the provisions of the Auction Act, they are to be carried out within a single basket, and for units using different fuels, I mean, among others. gas, the different premium amounts will be determined. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Due to the importance of the topics that are addressed in the Act, as well as the need to introduce solutions for e.g. improving air quality in Poland, and not only, I request on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice to direct the project to further work in the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u81	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print No. 3052 appeared unexpectedly, as it is most often in this term of the Sejm: from pear to parsley the project appears and is proceded in one night, two, and in kidnappings of three. Looks like this one's gonna be processed in two nights. Here are 111 articles, 111 articles of a very important law. The bill, which was expected, but which in the Seym appears in such a way that none of the Members, including Members of the governing party and Members of opposition parties, is able to analyse it so that we are not in such a situation in a moment, that it appears, for example. comma and/or journals. It is very dangerous for the legislative process, but undoubtedly cogeneration as what will reduce smog in our cities, which will make the heat cheaper than the heat that will be produced separately and than electricity produced separately... In cogeneration, efficiency is significantly higher and this should also affect the price of energy. Let us remember that when we are talking about the energy price, the heat price, we are really talking about the recipient, about the individual customer, who must bear the costs of the system and these costs must be acceptable to him. Especially in the case of system heat, when we have a manufacturing unit, we have a transmission network. What happens very often in cities? It is often the case that individuals and even communities and cooperatives do not want to join it because the price offered by such a network is too high. Therefore, we are at such a time that in 26 days the existing system of cogeneration certificates expires. I am surprised why the Ministry did not bring this law in January 2018 so that we can proceed calmly over it, because it has a significant impact on the situation of the individual recipient, who will bear the additional costs shown in the bill. It affects local government units, affects several hundred district heating companies, affects 2.8 thousand. self-government units, etc. It also affects $1,000. energy-intensive customers. By the way, it turns out, in the light of this law, that we as recipients will bear the costs, help in the operation of energy-intensive enterprises. This is somehow cross-subsidisation, which we as individual customers will apply to energy-intensive companies. This is particularly worrying in the context of this government's energy policy, for what are we dealing with? We would be calmer if it weren't for the facts that the energy market is disappearing in our country and we are increasingly facing the fact of a monopoly. Monopole, which is visible at least in the fact that despite the government's desire at the moment, for this market to be there, the market wants to be 100% the obligation, and really the efficiency of this stock exchange price formation will be at 15% . Bilateral agreements. Energy companies are badly managed at the moment. What does that translate into? It translates into an increasing cost of energy that we, as citizens, will bear. Increasing costs will make the content of our portfolios increasingly absorbed due to prices resulting from energy price increases. At this point, the question is whether the rulers are really carrying us through energy transformation so that we as citizens do not incur excessive costs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, everything seems to be coming to this, that we are facing draining by energy companies of our wallets. We consider as a Platform that we should give ourselves a year when it comes to extending the existing law on certificates of origin from cogeneration, so that we can work really hard for this year on the project submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I would like to express my position on the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, at first I would like to make a request on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 that the project we are debating should also be addressed to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Why? Because we're talking, Minister, reading into the right idea, in the right print, about a bill that really ends a certain era and completely introduces A new system. I agree with the fact that it is wrong that again we are talking about very important and crucial things for all citizens, for the inhabitants of cities and municipalities in the 12th. It was wrong that there was no consultation with local governments. Over 2,000. Local authorities are owners of still old heating plants. They are the owners of the companies today or 100 percent of the shareholders of the companies. So we're really talking about something again without hearing the owner, without consulting the owner. The documents attached to the bill do not mention that the Polish Towns Association, the communes, or the joint committee of the government and the local government spoke on this subject. This is a mistake. This error must be corrected by the participation of the local government committee. And now to the point. The bill is, as I said, a revolution. We're done with the heating system. We are moving towards, first of all, production and heat and energy, i.e. rationalizing the production process itself, which is very important, and there is no shadow of doubt here. But there are some doubts. My question to the Minister concerns the auction system. As I recall the NIK report of the last time regarding RES, in this report the auction system was very criticised. The point is that it is not completely refined in terms of legal, procedural environment. And the question is: Is the auction system in the current formula really prepared today? Is this auction system you're proposing here going to pass the test? This is my doubt and my question to the Minister. Here's another thing. I was concerned that, unfortunately, the description of the bill refers to growth in the case of procedures and bureaucracy. I was a little worried about that. If the project shows additional jobs at the Ministry of Energy, URE, I'm starting to wonder what's going on. So, additional procedures again, extra buffalo. Is that the right direction? What really is that supposed to mean? There is no doubt that the modernisation of district heating is a major challenge, because in addition to what we have said, heat and energy, there is also the issue of fighting to reduce CO2 emissions and rationalise the development of district heating in order to encourage, mobilise residents to join the district heating network and move away from the individual heating system, which is troublesome for environmental, smog and very sensitive, as we know today, by all communities and all residents. This is an important challenge, it is an important bill. I'd expect to do it more honestly when it comes to the nearest procession. 11 months can't go back. It is a pity that this procession is only one month before the Act enters into force. I would like local government officials and all clubs to be invited at this stage, regardless of political options, to resolve this systematically. This is a very serious challenge for all of us, because smog and heat prices do not have political colors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The objectives of the draft proposed law are right. They aim to improve air quality, ensure security of heat and electricity supply through the development of high-efficiency cogeneration, i.e. simultaneous generation of electricity and useful heat in CHP plants. We are very quickly investigating this bill because at the end of 2018 the Act, which concerned the system of support in the form of a certificate, expires. Hence my question: Is it a good legal practice, is it a show of respect for Members who are not representatives of the government, that in 24 and 48 hours the bill is so important from the point of view of Polish energy, air quality in Poland, but also the future to process in such a short time? Was it possible to think earlier - because I understand that you control which laws expire, which need to be extended - and to proceed with such a bill, as well as the appointment of a committee, a subcommittee in the Sejm, but this time to the point? The project proposes replacing the current electricity support mechanism with a high-efficiency cogeneration system to support the construction of new generation capacity in cogeneration. This mechanism is intended to guarantee investors who won the auction a fixed premium on the price of electricity. The promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration is to take place in four categories, you write this in the law and in the explanatory memorandum. The costs of support schemes are to be spread across all end-users of the whole system. Hence my question and my request to the Minister to present the costs for the final recipients of the electricity system. During the public consultation of the draft law, there were numerous doubts, which I hope the Minister will dispel. I'll give you a few of them, because I'll honestly admit that it's not possible to get acquainted with the entire bill in such a short time. There was a concern that the bill skipped the possibility of support for renewable energy sources, hence my question as to whether the draft law excludes or not the possibility of additional award of installations using other operational forms of aid, i.e. certificate of origin, fixed purchase price or coverage of the negative balance. The Chamber of Industrial Energy and Energy Recipients also pointed out that this bill significantly reduces the possibility of maintaining the viability of industrial heat and power plants with process gases, as well as the methane released and captured by bottom mining robots. That's why my question is, isn't it? It has also been noted that the bill introduces the risk of a lack of stimulus for the development of cogeneration in small, inefficient heating systems. Minister! Why so short proceding time? I would like to ask you to resolve your doubts and, above all, to answer the costs for the recipients, that is, all of us, when it comes to the introduction of this system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u87	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject we've been discussing for a dozen minutes is very important. It is included in the whole debate that we have been dealing with for several months, and its intensity has been increasing in recent days, which is related to the conference that is taking place in Poland, as well as to prices, with renewable energy, because this has caused considerable controversy, great economic impact on businesses and citizens above all. Because to continue this topic: just the day before yesterday I received a letter from President Rzeszow, where the price of electricity increases by 67%. That offer, that's what he got, and if he doesn't sign it, he's gonna have to pay a year a year. What does that mean for self-government? And the local government is the people who live there. Practically everything, all social life, all infrastructure up, maybe not about 70% But much, and these are the threats. Cogeneration is important from the point of view of energy use and is also part of this energy, smog, price policy that we are discussing, because this is a rational use of energy. In the production of electricity, there is an excess of heat in most sources, and it is important to use this heat. If we have 50% heat from combustion plus minus, it needs to be rationally used and create the conditions for it to be used, because automatically you have to burn half the coal. Less smog, lower price, less penalties for environmental poisoning, because it also affects the costs that our society incurs. It is important that the rules are good, that they support existing measures in this area. We're moving on to another support system, to an auction system, and now it's important... This voice also appeared in the discussion, and the Member spoke about auctions. Did these auctions work out? I'm going to skip these experiences that have been gained for many years, and now it's said that auctions will function. But an example of how it is at auction: at auction, windmills have a price half lower and win, while decisions are made to cut windmills. Auctions to yourself and life to yourself. And politics to themselves, because you have to destroy what your predecessors did. There's no logic in that, ladies and gentlemen. As far as cogeneration is concerned, much of this heat could be used either for the use of hot water, or for heating premises, individual buildings, because that is also cheaper. We don't smoke from chimneys, because whatever we burn in the oven individually, it causes a smaller or larger disturbance in the environment. The problem often raised by local authorities: road transport infrastructure already within the housing estate. Somewhere on the edge of the city there is a settlement, and it is necessary to bring heat from a distant, further area. Few: this infrastructure needs to be distributed all over the estate, users will not do it, it rests on local governments or housing cooperatives. The cost is huge. They're defending themselves because they don't have any money. So that's important, too. Heat loss on this transmission. I guess the day before yesterday I watched this program -- I think it was about Norway -- where it was about the fact that the transmission of heat, heat from a volcano at a distance of several dozen kilometers would cause a loss of only two degrees. This shows how efficient it can be uploaded It's warm. This is the use of heat and this is actually saving for everyone. With us, these losses are much higher. You have to look for good solutions here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and it is a pity that we have to discuss today at such a rate, because I think everyone has something interesting to bring to these proposals, to these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u89	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have a question: Is it true that the draft law was not consulted with representatives of local government units? What group is this? Question: "Is it true that the introduction of a cogeneration levy will have a negative impact on the competitiveness of energy-intensive enterprises?" What is the group of these companies? Is the government planning on introducing some kind of relief? What are these reliefs supposed to be? And is it true that the government's introduction of such reductions to energy-intensive consumers will result in an increase in the burden on households? And what is the growth rate for individual farms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u92	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the economic effectiveness of the proposed solution. Hence my question: What is this balance sheet, what is the economic efficiency balance of the proposed solution, i.e. how the combination of resources obtained from the so-called. the co-generation fee and expenditure from the State budget and the appropriations transferred to support high-performance installations? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Indeed, it is a very important bill, one of the most important ones, which somehow also inhibits CO2 emissions, but Minister, Poles today respond immediately because everyone wonders: So how much will we pay for it, how much will we have to pay? Because here we have a system of subsidies, support. In a moment we will pay extra for bureaucracy at the Ministry of Energy, in the URE we will pay extra, and in a moment we will also cover these costs, i.e. those related to savings for energy-intensive enterprises. I would like you to state clearly how much the Poles will benefit from this regulation. And second question. Minister, in the justification of this bill, you write that you have been talking to entrepreneurs since March. Question: "How long have you talked to local governments about amending this law?" And third question: Are these companies, these entities, which will be able to benefit from this aid from 1 January 2019 tomorrow, ready to reach out to this aid? You said earlier today that they benefited from this operating account because it was the grant from the certification system that guaranteed it. Are they gonna make it through this? What happened that the ministry didn't deliver the project until 5:00 p.m. at 12:00 p.m. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As we have heard, which until today has not been discussed anywhere in the Sejm and which we have in this day and tomorrow to celebrate? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To date, existing cogeneration plants are to receive a guaranteed premium that will allow them to cover operating costs. Will this operational costs be covered on request and not analysed, or will it be analysed and maybe questioned, so how do we know that this bonus will be guaranteed for all cogeneration installations? The second question is that the system you have proposed is public aid. Therefore, how will it be necessary to proceed, will this require notification of this project within the European Union and to what extent? Are you sure about the big ones over 60, but are they the ones below? And the third question, related to energy policy by 2040 and what you are going to do, so that we can join the cogeneration system, the system heat system, and not separate ourselves from it. Do you have any suggestions and solutions in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u97	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Our country has one of the most extensive district heating networks in Europe, which indeed offers very good opportunities to build new cogeneration capacities, expand existing or significantly modernise these capacities. In a few years, we can get a few gigawatts of new energy power, a much-needed economy, much needed by our system. I would like to ask about these smallest and medium-sized installations, most of which are owned by local governments, whose shareholders or shareholders are local authorities. What direction of action will the Ministry support, in particular in terms of modernisation, whether the direction of construction or installation of desulfurization or denitrification installations, or rather the conversion to new fuels? There must be a certain intention in this law, so that we can implement state policy in this area. Please explain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u99	Thank you. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u100	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Why have existing RES sources been excluded from high-efficiency cogeneration supported? After all, biogas plants include a 15-year support system. Many of them were built as part of EU competitions for high-efficiency cogeneration sources. Biogas plants are the essence of high-efficiency cogeneration and benefit from this community because they have cheap, ecological heat sources. Why do you change the rules of the game during the support period while supporting high-performance natural gas cogeneration? With us, on Koszalin soil, in the village of Grzmająca I was in the biogas plant and I will add that in addition to the cheap ecological heat source - there is also a large unemployment in this village, there is no industry - in this biogas plant there are also inhabitants of this municipality of the workplace. Such biogas plants need to be supported for ecological, cheap energy rather than hindering their operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you what I was talking about in my speech. Will this act, if adopted, be an element that will enable local authorities to support the construction of infrastructure, especially in the context of the housing estates? The point is that we can support the construction of this skeletal network, because that's the biggest problem. Many households, urban, suburban, could be involved in this system. It's very important, it's cheap, it's cost-effective, but it needs a network. Nobody wants to do that. The communities don't want to do it, the local governments don't have any money. It's hard for citizens to pay. Is that a possibility, and are you considering this kind of support? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What you said today is neither in the bill - at least I have not read about it - nor in the justification for the 450 kg/MWh issue. You said it would be counted on the sum of energy, i.e. electricity, as well as heat. That's my understanding. And then is there coal in the range of 450 kg per MWh? Isn't it about coal being able to participate in this cogeneration too? Second thing. How is it that what is in the justification that this support, the premium for high-efficiency cogeneration in 2019, is 1,58 zł, to what is the effect of regulation -13,5 zł? And the third question. The efficiency of cogeneration shall be 5.1 GW. When will this be achieved, because not immediately? When will the first auction be held and what are the expected results of the first auction? How many entities can come forward? Will it be in 2019 or will the first auction be later? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Did the analysis of this bill estimate what support would now look like, especially for those individuals who prepared a great effort of cogeneration, e.g. Gas and yellow certificates for which they received some 120 PLN per MWh recently? What chance will they have now to support in this auction system? How much will it cost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u107	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of questions here. Some of the votes were positive voices, voices of support for the purposes of the bill, which is extremely pleasing. I will try to address all the questions and comments that have been raised during the speeches and in the question section. Firstly, the question of the fact that the bill appeared in the Seym quite unexpectedly. Here I will draw attention to the fact that the work on the project has been practically ongoing since last year, since the autumn of last year. Publicly known versions of the project were already available at the beginning of April this year. This discussion is going on all the time. The project was modified. The final form has been established following discussions in the Council of Ministers. As far as the cost of possible transformation related to the system is concerned, we have shown all costs per year in the OSR, per group of customers. Therefore, the same examination of the list in Annex 4 to the OSR will allow for an answer to the question of how much this costs in individual years, as expected, what capacity is planned to join, how much this will cost an individual customer. There was also a thread of a fading electricity market, a falling volume on the energy exchange in the context of cogeneration. Here I would like to remind you that from the very beginning, when the stock exchange obligation was introduced into the legislation, cogeneration was excluded from the stock exchange obligation and here, nothing changes in this respect. The auction system itself was further criticised in the questions and speeches. NIK was indicated for the RES auction system. Here I would like to point out that this support system is partly based on an auction system for which lessons have been learned from the functioning of existing auction systems: and the RES auction system, and in terms of the power market - notabene is currently being Auctioned - and among others. In order to eliminate certain imperfections, greater involvement of the regulator has been introduced. Of course, there was also a charge in the questions that bureaucracy and costs were increasing. The question here, however, is whether we want to have a targeted system that precisely supports those who need support or a proverbial free American, as in the case of certificates of origin, a system that supports a little blindly, and also leads to oversupport, i.e. support where it is not needed at all. And here, I'll pay attention to one thing too. They asked how much it would cost the audience, how much we would pay for this transformation. I'll tell you right away, the question is wrong, 'cause you'd have to ask how much less we're gonna pay. Well, this is all contained in the OSR - today's system of support in the form of certificates of origin costs us, i.e. all recipients, 1.5 billion PLN per year. The proposed support system will cost PLN 207 million next year, i.e. we will pay 1.3 billion less. This should therefore be enjoyed by individual customers and energy-intensive consumers. As far as the next question is concerned, as soon as possible, regarding the energy-intensive allowances provided for in this project, the cogeneration subsidies, I will immediately say that this part will be notified separately and we have not yet obtained the Commission's formal or informal consent. This process is ongoing, which is why in a few weeks we'll be able to tell you when it's gonna happen. However, the calculations indicate that the introduction of these reductions will result in a difference in the rate for the final customer of 18 gr compared to 1 MWh. Questions have been raised regarding support for RES under this law. Here I would like to say that this is a law on the promotion of energy from cogeneration, not renewable energy sources, and all the elements related to the promotion of energy from renewable sources are contained in another law, which we are also updating on the occasion of this law, so as to take into account the specificities of the previously mentioned biogas plants in this system. As regards the issue of the entire efficiency balance that appears here, I would like to say that the whole support scheme for the guaranteed premium, the individual premium, the cogeneration premium, the individual cogeneration premium is financed precisely by the cogeneration fee collected within the whole system, at exactly the amount resulting from the costs of the scheme, while the increased costs of the bodies involved in the scheme, i.e. the President of the URE and the entire operating system and the Minister for Energy, which will therefore have more tasks in determining the many parameters needed to ensure that this support system functions precisely, will actually be covered by the budget, but in comparison with the total savings generated by optimising the system, this is a microscopic cost, and this allows for a more targeted targeting or dedicating of this support. There was also a voice about whether this law supports the construction of the infrastructure needed to transport heat. This law does not serve to support the construction of infrastructure. Other instruments are designed for this purpose, which are already in operation or are being updated or modified. One of the most important instruments available at the moment is the Infrastructure and Environment Operational Programme, which is the whole action to support district heating networks, which is the whole infrastructure part. The Act on Thermomodernisation also provides for the possibility of modernization on district heating hubs in order to achieve greater energy efficiency. There are various types of energy consulting, which has among others. help to prepare appropriate projects or make decisions so that they are optimal. The questions also concerned the auctions and the volume of power that we are planning. All the figures given here are based on actual volumes, collected during work and inter-ministerial consultations and broad public consultations. We have consulted this project with chambers, we have received a number of requests both for the text itself and for the data that have been used here. On this basis, the magnitudes that are included in the impact assessment have been determined. We predict that the first auction will take place around the middle of next year. We also predict that these sizes, namely 5 GW, will be around 2028. There was also a question about the smallest and medium-sized cogeneration units in local government units, what decisions should be made: whether modernization or completely new investments. Here, in fact, each operator of the unit should calculate itself, with which solution will get the best results in a given location. Cogeneration has to do with this, that there is not one standard or model solution that would serve just as well, equally to everyone, because here a lot depends on what is the heat demand profile, what are the possibilities of electricity or heat entering the grid. Taking all these elements into account, each operator should decide whether to upgrade, as this law allows, or to construct a completely new entity. The question was also whether the guaranteed bonus actually guarantees that you will get the size that results... the question about the size of the guaranteed premium. Here the procedure is that the application is made and it is assessed by the regulator in order to meet the requirements set as a condition for obtaining this bonus. If these requirements are met, the response is positive and the premium is granted in the amount in which it is determined. There were still questions about connecting to the network or modifying what is today - whether it would be an obligation to join. I would remind you that, at the moment, there are certain provisions governing the obligation to connect to the network, and we are still planning to extend this obligation, which is today laid down in the provisions of the Article, in the context of these provisions. 7b Energy Law. I think I've exhausted all my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, contained in print No.3052, to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in addition. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in a moment. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 22 hours 13 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the review of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for implementing the Budget Act for 2018. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question is raised by Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz club15. Time - 1 minute. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just when the first reading of this project was taking place, I was holding a meeting and, to say the least, I was a little surprised, because this is a project that could be classified as satirical if it was not that it was very serious, because it concerns 8 billion out of taxpayers' pockets. 2100 million is allocated to the Reprivatisation Fund. I have a question for the applicants: What is this money to be spent on? Because the Reprivatization Fund was created to give compensation to people robbed by communists. The state - I am talking about the ruling majority - has created the possibility of spending this money for other purposes. The second question is: Can applicants see the difference between reprivatisation and nationalisation and nationalisation? Because at this point, you want to buy this money, which is to nationalize, nationalize some companies, and you don't say what it is. It's just extreme hypocrisy, a little schizophrenic. Please answer these two questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u110	Thank you, sir. At the same time, I would like to inform you that young people from Rzeszów are currently listening to the discussions. Welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u111	At the previous meeting of the Sejm, the Members of the PiS decided that each year they would draw 8 billion PLN in the form of VAT from the taxpayer's pocket. This year, 8 billion are set at this meeting for what purposes. 14 countries of the European Union have a budgetary surplus. This is probably the last chance to throw this project in the trash so that Poland can finally reduce debt and deficit. The point is that we can function normally, not just so that you can make pockets, gifts and decide freely on the money. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Why do I say "anything"? Because you said you'd spend the money to protect your health as you wish. And he can't... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Please hold the time.]] [[And those P.O.'s aren't gonna come up with that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u112	Don't count that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u113	And it can't be that you make gifts and share any money because it's Poles' money. We are in favour of rejecting this project. And for a glass of water, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u114	There you go. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's not about any money on the NFZ, it's not about any money on the Large Family Charter, it's about the Self-Government Road Fund, it's not even about the PKP. It's about 2 billion zlotys of taxpayers that the government wants to spend today... For what? To expropriate taxpayers. That's exactly what you want to do. More than PLN 2 billion spent on the Reprivatisation Fund you want to spend on nationalisation. But for the past two hours, I've been trying to get an answer from the Minister to the question, "Who and what do you want to extort?" What do you want to buy with that money? We don't know the answer until now. Minister! Go out and tell the Poles what you want to buy with their money and who you want to take away his hard-earned property from a private company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u116	Thank you, Member. I don't see any more calls. Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Who will answer?]] Who of your Members is in favour of the proposal for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018 contained in print No 3054, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. The vote was 175, against - 222, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus sent it to the Committee on Public Finance. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the Sejm to set a deadline for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in addition. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] But opposition to what? [[Voice out of the O.R.: Overruled.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Okay, so I can't hear the objection. We'll proceed with the vote. Let me remind you that this is an additional referral of the bill to the government committee. Who among you is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Draft Law No 3052 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. 177 voted against - 221, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the offer. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a deadline for the submission of the report by 11 December 2018, so that we can consider this report at the next meeting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break because we're done with the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 32 hrs. 13 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. I welcome a group of students from the primary school in Bachorzu with the guardians in the Seym at the invitation of Wojciech Buczak. We welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act (prints 3032 and 3034). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act, print No 3032. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the draft law in question on 21 November 2018 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for the purpose of first reading. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please move your conversations to the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u119	The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 23 November 2018, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law from print no. 3032 without amendments. I would like to add that the committee unanimously adopted the draft amendment to the Police Act, for which I thank the committee very warmly because the problem of apartments for police officers in large cities, in the capitals of voivodships is indeed very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u120	Thank you, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please transfer your calls to the cockroaches. [[Voice from the courtroom: Government please, Marshal!]] Would you like to scream? Maybe I'll make it available to you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're gonna do a show on public television and private television. [[Joy in the Chamber]] There's nothing to laugh about, really. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be nervous.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Against the background of what is happening in the world and in Europe, in Poland we all enjoy safety, security in Poland. Polish society highly evaluates police professionalism and highly evaluates police services. We see on a daily basis that our cities are safe and police work is good, and this is also shown by research and surveys. But I'm sure the police have problems too. One such problem is the service of police officers in large cities, which is not an easy service, especially for economic reasons. Police officers, especially young, aspiring to the Police, those who are just taking their first steps in the service, are often unable to get apartments in Warsaw or other voivodship cities. However, there is also a problem related to specialists whom the police desire, seek, high-class specialists who should work at the Police Capital Command, in the police voivodeship headquarters in large cities. So far, the police have tried to address these problems by providing work flats or paying the equivalent for the use of apartments in Warsaw. However, this aid was strictly defined at a time when a police officer could have obtained such assistance. After that time, the policeman himself had to stay in Warsaw and search for an apartment, he paid for the rent of such an apartment, which was extremely difficult for financial reasons. We all know that there has been an increase in the cost of living and the price of housing, especially in big cities, and it is not easy to get an apartment, especially when you take the first steps in the police. And here our law addresses this problem and allows the Ministry of Home Affairs, and basically the Chief, to allow such aid in the form of housing to last longer than e.g. 2 years. This seems to be the solution that will help the police. It is worth remembering, however, that in the future this housing problem will probably exist in the case of specialists or police officers in large cities, and it is also worth to lean on this problem for the future. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, supports the Commission's bill to amend the Police Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u122	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will present our position on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act, print No. 3032. In fact, this project assumes amendment only of Article. Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Police Act. The provision, as already mentioned here, concerns the cost of accommodation of a police officer transferred from office to service in another village who did not fire an apartment or a house in the previous place of duty. Currently, these costs are borne by the police, but no longer than for a period of 2 years from the date of allocation of the temporary accommodation. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs proposes that this burden rests on the police all the time the officer is serving in another village. The reason for the transfer from office to work in another locality is the broad interest of the service, and indeed large staff shortages. Such a transfer in addition to new professional challenges for a police officer also means the need to reorganize his personal life, which is an extremely high price. If this separation lasts longer than 2 years, then there really is no reason for a policeman to pay himself for renting a temporary apartment away from his family. In the Polish police almost 6 thousand are missing. Officers. According to the police chief's records as of 1 July this year, there were 6276 vacancies throughout the country. It should be noted that more officers have resigned from the service than have joined it. By the end of July, 2822 people left and 1804 were accepted. There's never been a shortage of personnel in the police. Always the number of officers deciding to leave was close to the number of newcomers. It will not be easy to fill this gap, and the process may take several years. About 5.5 thousand were planned to be admitted to the police this year. persons. In 10 months of this year, more than 15,000 registered. Those willing to serve, but only 4,000 were successfully recruited. persons. 75% The starters are out. It also turns out that police officers often resign from the service at the basic stage of vocational training, and in the first half of this year there were 135 such cases. The human resources situation is therefore difficult. The police themselves admit that the shortcomings are due to a drop in unemployment. The private sector pays much better, gives better conditions and police work has ceased to be attractive, especially for high-end specialists. Unfortunately, the government, including the department of home affairs, did not respond in time. After several months of protests that took a harsh form at the beginning of November, the government was cornered and the crisis had been resolved for the time being. However, in a situation still difficult, the maximum use of staff reserves is very important. In practice, this means distributing police officers with high qualifications: knowledge, skills or experience in the ministry to places where there are shortcomings. It is understandable that they should be compensated for any inconvenience and additional financial burden resulting from the decision to transfer to another locality. Expenditure resulting from the entry into force of this law is estimated at nearly 1850 thousand. annually and will be covered by the police budget. As a club, we have no doubt that this is a fully justified proposal to amend the law, and the Civic Platform will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the amendment of the Police Act. This is a committee initiative. Firstly, first of all, I thank you that this is a committee initiative, adopted with the support of all clubs, Members, there was really no objection. The Kukiz Club15 believes that this is a good initiative, and we will support further work on this law, hoping that this will be a quick process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u126	Thank you. I would now like to ask the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u127	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! In response to the expectations of a large number of police officers regarding temporary accommodation for the period of service as a result of the transfer from office to service in another village, today we regulate the allocation of temporary accommodation according to the standards of the police officer. This provision concerns the amendment of the Article. 96 of the Police Act of 6 April 1990, however, is not mandatory in nature, even because of the optional nature of the provision and the provisions contained therein, which consider the lack of obligation on the police authorities to include also residents who are transferred to the service in another village as an officer of his family members. Reading literally the recipe of the added mouth today. 4, without hesitation, it can be called the regulation of the so-called. Social affairs of police officers. The intention of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was two reasons, which were in parallel at the heart of the Commission's legislative initiative. At this point, as the first factor, the committee took into account - and these were the priorities - that the law would first concern the issue of the transfer from office of a high-skilled police officer whose necessity in entrusting him with service in another village would be directly linked to the use of these qualifications, and therefore the situations of maximum use of staff reserves for service purposes will be taken into account. The project provides for the provision of accommodation for the entire period of service during the secondment beyond the permanent place where it has been carried out. In these circumstances, it is appropriate to compensate the police for the additional financial burden resulting from the decision to transfer from office to another locality. The total costs associated with the entry into force of the proposed changes will be covered by the state budget in Part 42: Home Affairs. An indicative estimate has also been made of the financial consequences caused by the entry into force of the changes that we are leaning on today in this Chamber, specifying them at the amount of 1848 thousand. PLN in the first year of validity of the Act. In the following years, it is expected that the amount of expenditure indicated for this objective will be similar. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats has never stood in opposition to the granting of benefits of a financial or factual nature to any social group, in particular those officers who, Poles, help, ensure order, order and security. Thus, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will vote in favour of the report no. 3034. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of Members asking a question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek a question. Time - 1 minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A slight change, but very necessary. Today the police can provide accommodation for no more than 2 years, so we are putting up with this period, and this solution is right. It's a commission project. The question is well-founded: Who will be affected by these changes? Or chiefly district, city and voivodeship commanders, who, as suggested by a private officer, simply can afford to rent? On the other hand, even more than 6 thousand may be missing in the Polish Police. Officers. Still more people from the police are leaving than they're joining her. What further solutions will the government propose in this regard? I'm asking you to give me the information on how many cops use the funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to temporary accommodation and what percentage of them...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u130	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u131	...they're officers who don't have executive positions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u132	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Doubts are raised to facilitate the possibility of maintaining the temporary situation over a long period of time. The interim solution should, by its very nature, have a maximum time frame. Wouldn't it be better, instead of removing the barrier of 2 years in granting accommodation, to require police authorities to move - after this time of service - to a new place, with the provision of support, those officers who wish to move with their families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u134	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u135	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask: Is the Ministry planning to raise more housing resources for officers and is there a plan, I don't know, maybe building some apartments for officers, especially in big cities, who could permanently move to big cities, live there and work there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u136	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer the questions asked by Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This is indeed a short amendment, a committee project very much needed by the police. I would very much like to thank the committee for this legislative initiative, because this provision, which is being amended by the amendment that we are discussing today, has been in the legal system for a long time, since the beginning of the law on police law, which has been in force since 1990. Indeed, it created some problems in situations where an expert, a specialist in a given field, had to be detained for more than two years after being transferred from office to another place of service. For two years, the service had to pay for the housing costs, and after two years, although not of its own accord, only because of the needs of the service, it remained in this place, but had to cover the costs itself. So it's definitely a rational change. It will make it possible to make better use of human resources above all. I would like to make it very clear that these concerns of some of your Members regarding vacancies and the binding of these two cases are not relevant, because this is about experts, it is about specialists, people who are missing in a given place and who need to be transferred from office because of the needs of the service - for this reason we need to move such an officer to this place from another place. The transfer, when there are vacancies, doesn't change anything from one place to another, because for this reason we don't have more officers in the service, just as many as were in the other place. So that I would like to stress the rationality of this provision and the fact that the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration is in favour of its adoption. It's a good recipe, it's a recipe that will serve the police and officers transferred from office, not at their own request, to serve elsewhere. Besides, it's not just about big cities. This also applies to other towns, smaller ones. If, for important reasons, for the sake of service, someone needs to be sent to a smaller city for equal or different reasons, the same situation is taking place. This is not only about Warsaw or other large agglomerations. As far as vacancies are concerned, please, Members of the opposition use this data in a biased and unfair manner. I want to say a few words about it here, because it's not true, first of all, that there are more vacancies in the police than ever before. It is not true, my fellow Member, so do not use such data. I'll give you an example. [[But that's not what I said.]] The Vacations have been in the Police for many years. We had the least vacancies in 2016, i.e. under the rule of law and justice, 2,3% Vacations counted to the ceiling, limit 102 309. I'll remind you again, by the way, 'cause I've already spoken from this lecturer over and over again... [[But I didn't say that, Minister, I told you.]] ...that during the time of the PO-PSL government, the number of posts in the police was reduced first by 3,000, from 103 309 to 100 309, then 2 000. It's like it's been restored, and it's $1,000. - No. It was only the government of law and justice that restored this 1,000. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the previous financial year, in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation So we have again, just like before 2009, when this reduction was made, 103 309 jobs in the police force. That's the limit we can fill. As far as vacancies are concerned, e.g. in 2012, it was 6084 vacancies, counted on 31 December. We always count on December 31st to sum up the year. That's 5,95%. , almost 6% but counted against 102 309. If we were to count in relation to this restored, as well as the previous staff limit, 103 309, that would be over 6%. [[But a lot more goes than he comes.]] There is now no 6%, Madame, no matter what you say on the bench. It's not 6% now. According to the data on 1 November - this is, of course, still shaping, at the end of the year we will give this data precisely - that is at 5.6% And you're declaring some kind of alarm, you're saying it's particularly bad. Vacations are, actually, that's the problem, we're not hiding it, but it's not a bigger problem than it used to be. If we are there, it is worth once again saying what is happening. Well, we compare the situation of vacancies in terms of number and percentage terms to a time when more than 10 candidates applied for one place, because there was high unemployment. Then more officers could be accepted, not accepted. They weren't accepted on purpose. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They did. Madame, they met the requirements. They weren't accepted because they were being held back on purpose. Why? In order to allocate funds from vacancies to other purposes, wages and, unfortunately, non-payments in your time, Member. That was really bad. We said in our programming message that we would do everything possible to fill in the vacancies, because it's specific officers that provide security, and that security doesn't provide vacancy, empty seats in the police. Only that another time has come, better for Poland of course, because there is less unemployment, one can say that it is almost gone. Today, other institutions offer attractive jobs outside uniform services. Besides, you've changed your pension system to a less favourable one during your reigns. That's very important, too. Notice that those who enter the service from 1 January 2013 receive pension rights after 25 years of service and reach 55 years of age. Before that, it was 15 years of service until that first pension. It was the PO-PSL coalition that changed this pension system. Officers protested it. You changed it against their position, their expectations, and today we have five candidates, about five and a half, counting on average, statistically, to one place in the police. Today, therefore, the situation with recruitment is more difficult, less willing, because there is more competition on the market. Please note this and do not close these numbers unauthorizedly, unjustly, because then, of course, a false image is created. [[Numbers don't lie.]] Numbers don't lie. I, the Member, recall these figures precisely, the figures I have here. I can present it to you, if you'd like, in writing. [[I'd love to.]] These numbers don't lie, and you're making conclusions over these numbers. But once again, today's amendment has nothing to do with the job. It's about experts, experts, officers who are missing in a given place. They need to be moved from another office to be shared with, because there are others there who perform these duties. And in big cities, and in smaller cities, and the chiefs, and the unsubs. It's not just about managing functions, just so we're clear. It's about very different positions in the police force. Here I answered Mrs Navel's question, which is no longer here. She asked a question and left. She asked who these changes would be about. It's these people, these experts, these officers, the specialists I'm talking about: not just the executives, but all of them. Isn't it better - Mr Pyzik asked - to move someone permanently than this temporary situation to maintain and pay for accommodation at the place of this posting or transfer from office? There are situations. There are situations where it can't be done, for various reasons, lying and on the side of the service, and on the side of the officer. You just have to keep it for more than two years. It took a little while, and the situation wasn't settled. Then the officer had to pay for this next year himself, e.g. when it was three years of service, for an apartment, when he needed a service, and he didn't want it, it wasn't his application, he didn't make that request. As far as housing resources are concerned, the police have quite a large resource, but of course they are still too small in terms of needs, especially in Warsaw, the largest city, capital city, but also in other places. This process of acquiring apartments continues, it is not easy, of course, the situation on the housing market is, as we all know, difficult. The apartments are just missing. They've been missing for years, all citizens, not just uniformed officers, police officers, and not just business flats, but apartments at all. Hence the housing program of the Government of Law and Justice. I think that he will solve this problem more effectively in the future. We are thinking about how this programme will also take into account the housing needs of the police and other services. We're thinking about it, and we're not losing sight of this program. On the other hand, this provision - I repeat and finish my application with this proposal, which has already been properly drafted - rationalises legal solutions and will certainly facilitate the transfer from office for more than 2 years, which is sometimes the case, of the officers needed in the structure at a given location of the police structure. To use something specific that can make you aware of what it is about: today we have made changes to the Police Act, we are creating a counter-terrorism service, and it may be that there will be a need for officers who meet the conditions and at the moment serve elsewhere. They'll have to be offered a transfer from office to performing certain roles in this, let's call it that, in the police department, in the counter-terrorist service. But that's not the only thing that's going on. This provision will certainly make it easier for us - in the sense of the state - especially for the commanders and the officers concerned themselves. So I'm in favour of this bill... a draft amendment of the bill, of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u138	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act after presenting the report of the committee in print No 3034. High Izbo! The proposed law aims to regulate the adverse legal situation, as a result of which the interests of police officers transferred from office to service in another locality who have been assigned temporary accommodation are not sufficiently protected. According to the justification given in the project, it is proposed that the cost of the policeman's accommodation should be covered by the police throughout the course of his service in this village. When considering the committee's proposal, it should be noted that the transfer from office of a high-skilled police officer to a service in another locality entails the additional costs incurred by such a person by having to pay the accommodation fees in a new place of service. On the other hand, the need for rational use of staff resources clearly justifies cases where this transfer of officers takes place. Given my position and the arguments presented, I would like to say that we believe that the regulation of this issue in the way proposed in the project deserves a positive assessment. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern declaration of support for the submitted project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u140	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on disclosure of documents of State security authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents (prints No 3024 and 3055). I ask Mr Kurzepa to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Legislative Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents from print No 3024. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Legislative Committee for First Reading on 21 November 2018. The Administrative and Internal Affairs and Legislative Commissions, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 4 December 2018, invite the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Five amendments were tabled during the committee's work, which were positively voted and adopted by both committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u142	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft Print Act No. 3024 on the amendment of the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The Law and Justice Club supports this bill because it considers that, first, regardless of the allegations made by the adversaries about the limited scope of the act - after all, in fact For the time being, it refers literally to the only existing metropolitan union, namely the Management Board of the Upper Silesia-Zęgębie Metropolis - the law, even for a small population or institution, must be consistent with the legal logic of solutions applied in similar situations. Secondly, we also recognise the progressive scope of this law, recognising that the development of metropolitan unions will not end in this only case. Thirdly, if there is a gap in the provisions of the Act on metropolitan union formation, even though it concerns today, one space, while respecting the principles of the correctness of lawmaking, the gap which has arisen must be corrected and the omission fixed. Fourthly, also taking into account the rotation of the staff, i.e. the process of replacing one person with another, we must also remember that it refers more functionally to the composition of the board than to the personnel composition. Therefore, in a permanent manner, it must refer to functional characteristics, not personal characteristics - not to specific persons, but to functions. For these reasons, we recognise that the law is justified, synergistic with other legal acts concerning local government units and declare its support by the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u144	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law in print 3024 and 3055. The contested bill complements the Act of 18 October 2006. However, this further revision of the illustrative legislation shows that the law in this respect requires refinement and harmonisation. The bill is obvious. The adoption of the metropolitan union law in 2017 required the completion of the existing procedures for the examination of this form of local government union. If we had not adopted the change, this form of self-government would be the only one in Poland that would remain outside the functioning of the illusory legislation. The law is of a general nature, as it could potentially also be applied in the future if such compounds were established. The problem is that we are preparing such illustrative laws for specific areas, complementing the law that should be general and, above all, changing the entire illustrative law. The first point that I have been asking since the beginning of this term of office, when it comes to the issue of illustriousness, is the matter of positions and groups of persons covered by the obligation to disclose the fact of links with the communist security services. From the beginning of the adoption in Poland of the law of illustration, this circle was too narrow, looking at it in terms of internal and external security of Poland. As far as external security is concerned, it is important to be aware that persons with documents, mainly stored in foreign service materials, concerning the sensitive spheres of their lives, their customary preferences, may be - these are people with important public functions, but also present in various types of companies of the Treasury and other areas of public life - blackmailed, and thus can be clearly disloyal to the Polish state. No one needs to be convinced of that. As far as the internal security of the Polish state is concerned, it is widely known that numerous officers and co-workers of the services of the communist regime have created a number of organized crime structures, participated in various types of mob groups. This has brought many political and economic damage to you and society, and perhaps still in some cases. Secret collaborators and employees of the security apparatus of the People's Republic of Poland from such sensitive areas of public life as banks, energy, telecommunications and digitization have still not been disposed of. The second aspect concerns the functioning of the illustrative procedures. The current law in this area is difficult to enforce. Apart from the direct involvement in the security apparatus of the People's Republic of Poland, i.e. working for it, it is difficult to prove that a person actually cooperates, because the conditions adopted by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments in practice prevent someone from being regarded as a secret collaborator of the security services of the People's Republic of Poland, and these people use it for example. To promote false narratives and to lie to our latest history, they refer to the threat resulting from the fact that the communist security authorities have not been cleared. Former officials and agents of communist security in many environments still play an important role, play it in public life or, knowing their wickedness from the times of People's Poland, impudently believe that their attitude deserves recognition and privileges. It would be appropriate to consider the adoption of a illustrative act in the model of the German law, so that all persons working and operating in the public sector are clearly covered. At that time, it would not be necessary to amend the law, since automatically all the existing structures of administration or public authority would be covered by such a law. We should also follow the Germans. This should be extended until at least 2030, when even the youngest persons who could have links with the communist security authorities would have reached retirement age and could not have had any direct impact on public life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the Kukiz Club15, given the nature of this law, is in favour of its adoption. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u146	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is strange, in a sense, that the Sejm deals with a law that affects several people - because this is a law that concerns the board of the metropolitan union of seven people - it prepares the entire law, although of this three persons will not be covered by this law at all due to age. We believe, of course, that the illustrative statements should be, people who perform public functions should disclose these facts, while communism ended in Poland in 1989, 30 years ago almost and there is practically no one left to mirror at this moment. This is the time when we should close this stage in Polish history and start talking about the future. We will vote in favour of this law because it does not have any real effects, it does not lead to collective responsibility, for example. The Foreign Service Act, it's all about people who perform their duties on the board of this union to carry out such a statement. On the other hand, the meaning of this law is completely marginal and this is essentially a waste of the time of the High House - the fact that we deal with such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u148	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u149	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! At the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats we had a discussion on the bill that we are currently debating, and indeed we had doubts similar to those expressed by my previous speaker Mr Szłapka, because in fact the amendment will affect literally a few people, less than we have fingers in one hand. But indeed these arguments, which Mr Kurzepa spoke about in turn, reporting on the debate at first reading at yesterday's joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Administrative Committee, about the fact that the law should, however, be equal, outweighed. We thought that we would support this amendment because the obligation to make illustrative statements concerns public officials sitting in institutions, in local government bodies very similar to metropolitan unions, for example, local government boards. For this reason, due to the necessity of universal application of uniform legal rules covering the citizens of the Republic of Poland, with doubts as to the shape of this amendment, we decided to vote in favour of the draft and to support the amendments which were also adopted yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u151	Dear Marshal! It is difficult to say: ladies and gentlemen, because there is hardly anyone in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen! The law is very important and I would like to stress here that, as far as this law is concerned, it has a bit of legislative disadvantages in that it is talking about a declaration, while a very important issue is the administrative decision of the Institute of National Remembrance, which results legally and the declaration does not result legally. And I think that should be corrected. And there's one thing. Such a statement by the Institute of National Remembrance that I was not a secret co-worker of the WSW and the SB, I personally own. That's the first line. On the other hand, when it comes to the cases referred to here, which relate to the illustration, I think it is important to take into account the non-disclosure of the annex to the report on the liquidation of the CSI. This is a very important document that just... If this document were disclosed, it would show us the whole spectrum of social, political and banking life. In my opinion, it is important to look at this subject more closely and to refine it. As I have said for many years, I mean. Since 1988, I have been in favour of exposing the influence of WSW and SB agents in the media, in the economy, in the banks, as well as in the Catholic Church, in the episcopate. This is very rarely said because it is not at the hands of certain political circles, also in the Catholic Church. What else, ladies and gentlemen, should I add? It is a matter of concern that the first President of the Supreme Court is charged with criminal charges by Mr Richard Jach. I told the Sejm that once before at the first meeting. Mrs. Gersdorf still hasn't responded to that. On 25 September 2017, I wrote a letter to Mrs Gersdorf to submit an administrative decision that she was not a secret collaborator of the Military Internal Service and the civil security apparatus SB. Unfortunately, until this day, Mrs Gersdorf has not referred to this in the sense that she has not applied properly. And this is not about the fact that it is said that this law concerns opposition activists. Everyone has the right to make such an application. This is a very important issue, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not do this in Poland, we will say goodbye to any reforms. And there's no reason to pretend that anything can change in Poland. In my opinion... By the way, I suggest you take a look at the material, the interview that Mr. Richard Jach gave. He's on YouTube on Marcin Roli's show. I believe that it is only when Poles learn certain facts, which are well hidden, that it is also a matter of mirroring in the media, that they should open their eyes and see in which system we live. I would like to conclude by saying, as I said earlier, that I am in favour of a complete illustration of the executive, legislative, judicial authority, this is about the whole spectrum of life. I would like to remind you here that when I was a Councillor of the City of Przemyśl in 2004, I was also the first local politician who was in favour of exposing security agents in local governments. Here maybe some of you don't know that. I ask you to consider this as a very urgent matter and a very important part of social and media life. Because many of you may not realize that there are people in the media, in my opinion, who are connected to the Military Information Service and the former Security Service. And people often wonder why not everyone has access to the media. That's why they don't have access to the media, because there are people there who are watching. And as I have said before, I say this from now on, the reforms of the Polish state since 1983 have been under the watchful eye of the Military Interior Service. Thank you very much. I am in favour of this bill. I bow down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u152	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of Members asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u153	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The elimination of the obvious legal gap is simply necessary, but the gap itself is not obvious. My question is, how did this gap arise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u154	The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the content of these documents. The draft law is an initiative of the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions and was created in response to a petition sent by the Foundation of the Centre for Analysis for Development. The amendment concerns the introduction of provisions obliging members of the board of directors of the metropolitan union, as well as the treasurer and secretary of such a relationship to make illustrative statements on such terms as, inter alia, members of the management board of the voivodship and treasurer of the voivodship. The Act will concern only one entity, i.e. Górnośląsko-Załębiowskie Metropolis established in accordance with the Act of 9 March 2017 on the Metropolitan Union in the Silesian Voivodeship. The obligation to make representations will apply to seven persons. In fact, it will be even less, because of the people who are currently taking the positions mentioned in the Act, three because of age are exempt from the submission of the illustrative statements. The Civic Platform Club is not opposed to the solutions contained in the project, but we note that it would be more rational to include such a minor amendment in another bill. We would like to point out that although the law concerns only one entity, it was not asked for an opinion in the course of its legislative work. Our request for this matter was rejected by the PIS at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice. It is very bad practice to adopt laws without consulting those affected by new obligations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Górnośląsko-Załębiowska Metropolis established in accordance with the Act of 9 March 2017 on the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship is a completely new institution. The creation of a metropolis required changes of many laws, among others. on the functioning of the local government. I wanted to ask if the government is currently working on draft laws on Upper Silesia-Załęgian Metropolis. If yes, please provide information on the scope of the changes to be made. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u156	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities (prints No. 2897 and 2966). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities from print No 2897. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 9 October 2018, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for First Reading. The Committee on Culture and Media shall, after first reading and considering the draft law submitted at its meetings on 7 November and 4 December 2018, propose that this draft law be adopted. I'll remind you just a little bit what's going on. The aim of the proposed law, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, is to amend the Act of 25 October 1991 on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities in the field of the selection of candidates for the post of director of cultural institutions and the transformation into national cultural institutions of two research institutes with a humanistic profile, i.e. The State Institute of Science - the Silesian Institute in Opole and the Research Centre. Wojciech Kętrzynski in Olsztyn. The need to introduce provisions for the transformation of these institutions is due to the need to ensure that they retain their scientific achievements and continue their activities on a non-commercial basis. These are research institutions that document history and regionalism, and in the opinion of the projectors should work not in the form of research institutes, but in the form of cultural institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u158	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. This amendment covers two thematic blocks. The first concerns the selection procedures for selecting candidates for directors of cultural institutions. This case aroused and aroused a lot of emotions, especially when it concerns institutions of great accomplishment, prestige. An example is the last problems of the Old Theatre in Krakow, or the Polish Theatre in Wrocław. Sometimes we deal with false emotions, driven by environmental or personal ambitions, sometimes we deal with the lack of good candidates, and sometimes just personal mistakes. The only reasonable remedy for these problems is to improve the transparency and efficiency of competition procedures. In this amendment, it is worth noting a few new, innovative solutions, such as: limiting the freedom of the competition's organiser to set criteria, clarifying the rules for the cancellation of competitions, obligation, it is very interesting to make public the programme of the selected candidate, setting rules for the acceptance of technical amendments in tenders, etc. The proposed regulations, I am convinced, will significantly reduce the manipulation of competitions and improve procedures. The second block of changes concerns the transformation into national cultural institutions of two research institutes, the Silesian Institute in Opole and the Research Centre. Kętrzynski in Olsztyn. Both institutes are institutions of great tradition and accomplishment and unfortunately today have faced a real threat of lack of solvency. The changes in the system of operation of research institutes, resort institutes in Poland are mainly rewarded by cooperation with business and the creation of innovative solutions. And rightly so, but it puts humanities in a lost position. On the other hand, these institutions can function in an excellent way as cultural institutions. Both institutes converted by law can work well within the Western and Northern Earth Network. And a good example here is the Western Institute from Poznań or the Memorial and Future Centre in Wrocław. I think that this network supplemented by these two facilities can bring many benefits to Poland. There is therefore no other way than the road of statutory changes, because otherwise these facilities cannot be transformed. That's the bill we're proposing. There was an allegation that these two thematic blocks should be regulated in separate amendments. There was also a voice that the issue of the transformation of institutes should not be governed by the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. However, I think that common sense, the principle of parliamentary economics, and the procedural explanations that were presented during the meeting of the Committee on Culture, are convincing enough to adopt such a principle of working on the problems presented. The Law and Justice Club obviously supports the submission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u160	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I'm sorry about the slamming, but I just saw that there's so much acceleration. There is a problem for me and part of my club with this project, because these are very good solutions, which are difficult to blame for any material flaws, while the fact that it is combined in one project makes this amendment of the law possible to be treated as a legislative error, which was mentioned at the meeting of the Legislative Bureau. The point is that the amendment of the law on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities may raise some doubts, because it brings to the law a solution, which is rather the matter of regulations. Nevertheless, these were the expectations of the cultural community. It can be considered that, since the interested parties wished for such solutions, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage went to their advantage, because the issue concerns the holding of competitions for directors of institutions where these competitions are compulsory. This is generally the case for local self-government cultural institutions and the Ministry provides a list of the institutions in which such competitions must take place. As I say, as regards solutions that clarify these rules, we do not have any substantive objections, although it is important to remember that something that is in the regulation, can be easily changed, impelled, and touched something that is already in the law, is more difficult. But let us hope that these solutions are good and satisfactory for the cultural community. On the other hand, Art. 3 of this law refers to the transformation into national cultural institutions of two research institutes with a humanistic profile. National Scientific Institute - Institute of Silesia in Opole and Research Centre im. Wojciech Kętrzynski in Olsztyn will become national cultural institutions by virtue of this law. And again, there's nothing wrong with that. It is true that they are more concerned with regional policy, but they are indeed institutes with a humanist profile, and the problem of regional affairs also has a clear cultural problem. It's just that we don't really know why this solution is in a place like this. The Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities does not so far invoke, abolish or list any institutions. This transformation should therefore take place in a separate act. We talked about this at two committee meetings. The arguments cited did not convince the Ministry. This confusion of concepts is certainly a legislative error and is therefore a huge problem. But we'll see how the Senate deals with it. That's all I can say. Because the fact that if they are not transformed today, they will have nothing to do with it, because the Minister of Science and Higher Education has changed the rules for financing such institutions, is an argument, I would say quite questionable. This bill we're talking about today is dated October 3rd. From 3 October to today, a law could be drawn up on the transformation of these two institutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't the Ministry do that? I don't know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u162	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz15. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u163	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on the conduct and organisation of cultural activities is subject to a further process. This constitution for culture, which in this way is most often expressed by specialists and cultural environments, has its shortcomings and weaknesses. This element of the amendment, which concerns the appointment of directors, is, of course, very emotional, as mentioned among others. Mr World. These emotions, of course, will not be avoided in the future either. Personally, I am not in favour of conducting competitions, because they are usually set up, which the best proof was the competition for the director of the Polish Theatre in Wrocław. I also filed a report to the D.A.'s office on this case. Officials of the Marshal's office, in agreement with ministerial officials, elected a director who, as it turns out, not only destroyed the theatre, but also challenged its dignity, honour. The director led to the destruction of the Polish theatre team, which traveled around the world, was awarded many times, who participated in the most important, prestigious festivals in Poland, also winning prizes. So here we have, and we have a very special situation. In this amendment, one very important and very necessary thing is that it was obvious in democratic countries with a slightly older status than Poland - first of all, I am talking about Germany and France - where the director emerges one year before his appointment. Such a director then has a chance to prepare himself in terms of substance, financial, actually under everyone. And this is the time that is extremely important and needed for a person who is a candidate for the director of theatre or cultural institutions. Modern abstentions, because this amendment with the second part that has been discussed here has created legislative problems, so we are wondering how to bite it at all. The work of the Minister of Higher Education is very emotional not to say that it is being contested by a large part of the university and scientific community. In this situation, the attempt to transfer responsibility to the Ministry of Culture, to the two institutes referred to in this amendment, is an absolutely irresponsible act. I also think that cultural institutions, which are very sensitive and specific places of work, should demand precisely such regulations as will not undermine their identity, the acquis which will strengthen these institutions, and in particular will strengthen artists, workers, workers, people who work in these institutions for years. This should be served by a coherent way of financing culture, which is not there. This amendment, of course, does not deal with this aspect of the functioning of cultural institutions in Poland. I hope that there will come a time when a real, comprehensive, complete constitution for Polish culture will be created, including the exclusion of visual arts artists who are deprived of basic, elementary rights, namely medical care or social security. It's gotta be dealt with, too. Almost 30 years of democracy in Poland, these artists are in a sense outlawed. So there are a lot of things to do and looking at the ministry's work on the bill that we are debating here, we have to say that this is a step in the right direction. I would like to stress once again: the appointment of a director by means of a competition is not mandatory, which is also the case in the Act on the Organisation and Conduct of Cultural Activities, because such a director or director can be chosen by appointment, in this case, with the approval of the Minister. So there's a lot of work ahead of us. This legislative element, which has been discussed, I find it interesting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will therefore abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u164	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Grzegorz Furgo will be the first question to be asked. There isn't. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the gallery a group of students from Nysa High School who, I understand, are in the Seym at the invitation of Mr Janusz Sanocki. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Does it not seem appropriate to add, in the course of this amendment, an obligation for the directors of cultural institutions to make illustrative statements? Thank you. [[This duty has been introduced for a long time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u166	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Ms Wanda Zwinogrodzka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank you for all your comments on the proposed amendment to the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities. I answer the last of the questions asked or in question mode. It was not the intention of the creators of this amendment to extend the obligation of vetting to all directors of cultural institutions. I think, considering such an idea, it is worth noting that it is a few thousand institutions of a different nature, level and scope, and it would be a very powerful operation that is clearly beyond our plans for this legislation at the moment. Let me also refer to Mrs Katarasińska's speech and, in part, to Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski's speech, who raised the legislative problem resulting from the introduction into the law of provisions allowing them to transform the Research Centre. Wojciech Kętrzynski in Olsztyn and the Silesian Institute in Opole in cultural institutions. Mr Sledzińska-Katarasińska suggested that this transformation should be made by a separate legal act, a separate act. Let me say that the Ministry of Culture has obtained a legal opinion, which showed that this method proposed here is the best way to bring these institutions together, without interrupting their continuity, which is quite important due to the powerful achievements they have and the projects they are running. As far as the idea of a separate law is concerned, we gave up this idea because it does not meet the government's expectations for this regulation. It does not comply because such a law would have to be an act that constructs general and abstract regulations on the transformation of institutions such as scientific institutes into cultural institutions. Such an act seems unnecessary in the Polish legal system, because this issue concerns only these two institutions, so we would create a law that would only work in these two cases, and then it would be a dead legal act. It didn't seem right. The second form that such a law could adopt would be that new cultural institutions would be set up by law. That wouldn't provide the continuity I mentioned, that's once, but that's not the most important thing. What's more important is that we think that there's no reason for these institutions to be institutions of such a high rank, which are invoked by a separate law. Moreover, this could make it more difficult to manage these facilities in time. Our intention is to bring about a situation where these institutions can operate on the basis of the regulations of the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, such as other such institutions. Therefore, in this law, we propose that this regulation be included in the transitional provision. A separate act, if it had been set up, would have created some practical problems, i.e. Any attempt to change the name or scope of the activities of these institutions in order to adapt their work flexibly to current needs would require a revision of the law and would therefore be a difficult and unpractical process. I would like to thank Mr Sledzińska-Katarasinska for noticing that this amendment meets the expectations of the cultural environment. It was important to us that we did. The project has been widely consulted by the Council on Artistic institutions in front of the Minister were also widely consulted, among others. at the meeting of the heads of the Departments of Culture of the Marshal's Offices in Poznań in 2017 Indeed, we feel that it is the answer to the expectations of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u168	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u169	The position of the club concerning the draft law amending the Act on the organisation and pursuit of cultural activities, print no. 2897. On behalf of the parliamentary club PSL-UED, I support the bill submitted. I'm not hiding that for personal reasons either. The proposed changes concern two institutions: the Silesian Institute in Opole and the Research Centre. Wojciech Kętrzynski in Olsztyn, from Warmia and Mazury, where I come from. Since I am interested in the history of my region, I work closely with the OBN and know the specifics of this institution. I know that there are excellent historians there - patriots deeply involved in discovering the complicated historical truth about the land border. The Silesian Institute in Opole plays an analogical role in western Poland. I asked the employees of the Olsztyn OBN for an opinion on the bill submitted, which is why I know that the proposed changes consider it a great opportunity to intensify the activities of their institute. They hope that the transformation into a national cultural institution under the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will result in better funding and, consequently, an increase in competence and quality of work. They have no doubt that the bill is needed. From my point of view, this was the best recommendation for the purpose of the proposed changes. It can be assumed that a similar view on the bill is given by the researchers of the institutions in Opole. In the spring of this year, the Olsztyn OBN celebrated its 50th anniversary. During that time, he had a huge impact on the historical awareness of the inhabitants of the region. He has made a significant contribution to the construction of modern-day social capital of Warmia and Mazury, a land with a difficult yet fascinating history. In communist times he was one of the most objective institutes dealing with the historical and cultural landscape of Warmia and Mazury. It remains to be hoped that, after the changes, the idea of the Institute's operation will remain unchanged and that the most important initiatives will continue. Especially such as the Yearbook of Western Lands, or a scientific magazine devoted to the history of former Eastern Prussia. Scientific Society n.e.i. W. Kętrzynski cooperates with various regional institutions in the field of science and culture, spreading historical knowledge about the former inhabitants of the border region. The scientific award for them is also a noteworthy initiative. Wojciech Kętrzynski for young researchers from all over Poland who did not turn 35. As with any reorganisation, there are concerns about this too. First of all, will they not become local copies of the Institute of National Remembrance? Will their actions not be too intensively controlled from Warsaw, and the way of presenting historical truth will not become too unilateral? Therefore, after the changes, the situation in both institutions should be monitored and possible worrying symptoms should be addressed. Today, however, it must be stated that the bill is good and necessary and the proposed amendments are positive. Therefore, the club PSL-UED will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u170	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Competitions and Dentist's Doctors and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients (Prints No. 1998 and 3019). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of access to medical information related to the patient is governed by the provisions of Article. 40 Act on Doctor's Competition and Art. 14 patient rights laws, the names of the laws are brief. On the other hand, the question of access to patient medical records is governed by the provisions of the article. 26 of these laws, the patient's rights law. The practice of health care institutions and the needs of patients and their loved ones leads to the necessary addition of these provisions, which is the subject of the revision discussed here. First of all, I will discuss an amendment on access to medical information about the patient. In accordance with European standards, the current Polish regulations require those engaged in a medical profession to keep confidential information related to the patient and obtained in connection with the pursuit of the profession. At the same time, they provide for exceptions to this principle. Those persons are bound by a secret also after the patient's death, unless the person close to you consents to the disclosure of the secret. However, if another loved one objects to this consent, there can be no exemption from secrecy after the patient's death. The current Polish legislation does not provide for a solution to such a patch situation and therefore the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment provides for the following additions to the existing provisions. Firstly, it is clear that the patient may object to accessing medical information about him in his lifetime. This objection should then be included in the medical records. The Patient Rights Act expressly stipulates that the patient is entitled to receive information on the consequences of this objection. It is clear that this right will give rise to responsibilities on the side of the management of health care units. Secondly, it is established that, in the event of a dispute between individuals having access to medical information about a patient, consent to access at the request of the person concerned or the doctor concerned shall be given by the court in non-trial proceedings. Your doctor may also go to court if you are not sure if the person concerned is really close to you. The Tribunal may also determine the scope of disclosure of information covered by statutory secrecy. Thirdly, if a patient has objected to the disclosure of medical confidentiality during life, it is determined that the court agrees to break that objection while determining the extent of the disclosure of confidentiality, but only in two cases, namely to protect the life, health of a loved one or a loved one and to seek compensation or compensation for the death of the patient. Fourthly, a framework for the action of the court in these cases shall be established, indicating that the court examines the interests of the parties involved in the proceedings, the actual ties of the loved ones with the deceased patient, the content of his will expressed in life and the circumstances of his opposition in life. In addition, the amendment provides for changes to the symmetry between the provisions on medical confidentiality of patients contained in the two above-mentioned different laws. For so far the rules in this matter, in these two acts, are not fully symmetrical. Therefore, the Patient Rights Act is supplemented, among others. the provision that in situations where medical secrecy can already be disclosed, this can only be done to an unchangeable extent, and in some cases the extent to which confidentiality may be disclosed may be determined by the patient or his or her statutory representative. As I said at the outset, the amendment of the provisions on access to patient medical records requires only amendments to one law, namely the Patient Rights Act. This is the second issue covered by the amendment. In this respect, new provisions are introduced which correspond to the substance of the revision of the provisions on access to medical information. It is established that, after the patient's death, not only the statutory representative of the deceased patient or the person authorised by him or her but also the person close to him will have access to his or her records, unless another person close to him opposes it. In the latter case, the same procedure as previously discussed is established, i.e. the question of access to the records of the deceased patient shall be decided by the court in non-trial proceedings, acting at the request of the person concerned or the person pursuing the medical profession. As before, the court may break the patient's objection to access to his records, an objection expressed, of course, during life, but only in two cases, i.e. to protect the health and life of a loved one and to seek compensation or redress. As before, the amendment establishes a framework for the action of the courts in matters relating to documentation which are identical to those laid down in the case of medical information about the patient. In addition, the concept of a loved one is clarified in the amendment. According to the new definition, it is the spouse, the relative to the second degree, but in a straight line, the statutory representative, the person in common life and the person indicated by the patient. During the work on the draft amendment, there was only one issue at issue, namely the question of breaking the patient's objection, expressed in life, of course, to accessing medical information about him and his medical records. The majority of the members of the Emergency Sub-Committee, and then the majority of the members of the Sejm Committee on Health, advocated that the court, the external arbiter, should have the authority to make such a possible decision within a well-defined decision framework and within a strictly defined framework of procedure. The adoption of such or another solution is not, in fact, due to calculation, but is, in particular, a result of life and work experience. These experiences are diverse and therefore different solutions are different. It is worth looking at how this problem has been resolved in other European countries. It turns out that different solutions have been adopted in different countries, including those similar to those proposed in our amendment. Here are some examples. In Sweden, this problem is addressed on the basis of the application of the recognised good practice, not of strict statutory regulation. The competent health care professional shall recognise the situation and make available the documentation of the person concerned or shall not make it available. If his decision is negative, the application shall, in a second instance, consider the head office of the facility. If that decision is rejected, the appeal authority shall be the administrative court. In Sweden, the disclosure of documents is taken into account, among others. the interests of the deceased and respect for his dignity. Under the laws in force in Denmark, those closest to them may have access to the medical records of the deceased, despite its prior prohibition, if they show that there is an important legal interest in protecting the right of secrecy. This interest may be a question of evidence of medical error or the exclusion of hereditary disease. The decision on these matters shall be taken by the staff member of the health care unit concerned. In the Czech Republic, the scope is governed by the provisions of the law in force. If in this country a patient has prohibited access to his medical records after death during his or her lifetime, his or her loved ones shall have access to it only if it is necessary to protect their health or the health of others. This is the decision taken by the medical staff, and in practice by the treating physician. In the UK, the general rule is to keep the medical records of a deceased patient confidential if he forewarned it while he was alive. However, if access to it is necessary for reasons of overriding public interest, the general principle does not apply. This is the special law on access to medical records. As in the previous cases discussed, the staff of the institution and the medical establishment concerned shall decide on such matters. On the other hand, according to the laws in force in Belgium, the confidentiality of the patient's records is strictly maintained if he has expressly warned himself in his lifetime. As you can see, there is a wide range of solutions in European countries, but there is a large majority of solutions that allow the patient's lack of consent to access medical records and medical information, where the public interest, the interest of a third party or other persons, in particular with regard to the protection of their health, or the supervision of the correctness of the operation of medical personnel, to break the problem. The amendment proposed by us is therefore in line with the solutions applied in many European countries. According to these proposals, the patient has the right to object to third parties' access to medical records and information about him after his death, but at the same time it is possible, only to obtain such access in strictly limited cases. It seems that the most important difference between the solutions proposed in our legal system, proposed in this amendment and applied in other European countries, is that, in the case of disputes, we propose that the court should decide, while in other countries, most of this task is assigned to medical staff. On behalf of the Seym Health Committee, please accept the amendment contained in print 3019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u172	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club Law and Justice a position regarding the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patient Rights, print No 1998. The draft concerns amendments to the rules on the obligation to keep confidential information concerning the patient after his death by medical professionals. An initiative to supplement the provisions on access to medical information about the patient and his medical records was taken by the Sejm Committee on Petitions, submitting the draft in print No 1998. This resulted from requests from family doctors, but also in the interests of people close to them. The reason for this initiative is that the current rules are vague, and implementation of them causes huge problems, and many times in practice, the loved ones do not have the opportunity to obtain the necessary information. The draft of the Committee on Petitions assumed that, after the patient's death, there was a medical confidentiality in respect of the information about him and his medical records, and that the consent to its disclosure could express, and determine the extent of its disclosure, only the court in non-trial proceedings. Breaking medical confidentiality would require a judicial settlement in any case. At the same time, provision was made for the abolition of the existing provision allowing the consent to the disclosure of confidentiality to loved ones, if they are in line with this. The extraordinary subcommittee has made numerous changes in the initial project, cooperating with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice and drawing on the comments sent to the project and its subsequent modifications. The final version drawn up in print No 3019 is presented by the Health Committee to the Sejm for adoption. In contrast to the initial project in the Commission project, it was assumed that in non-trial proceedings the courts would settle only disputes, i.e. those in which loved ones do not agree with access to medical information about a deceased patient or to his medical records. In non-disputed matters, the consent of loved ones is sufficient, as it is today. As the rapporteur referred to, the draft also provides for the possibility of going to a doctor's court and, more generally, to a medical practitioner. What is very important, the draft committee significantly limits the grounds for the court's action in cases where a patient has objected to the disclosure of secrecy during his lifetime, and it also sets out the framework for the court's action in such situations. I do not refer the draft in detail here, because the rapporteur has done so. The draft submitted to the Sejm is therefore complementary to the current rules, and at the same time it is not casuistic and thus allows good practice to be established in these matters. The only issue at issue during the drafting of the amendment was access to medical confidentiality after the patient's death when he opposed disclosure in his lifetime. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of allowing the patient's medical records and medical records to be accessed in such situations. This access will be dealt with by a court, i.e. an arbitrator independent of the parties concerned. We are also aware that to some extent the resolution of this dilemma is arbitrary, i.e. it cannot be clearly demonstrated which solution is more favourable, regardless of whether the patient's lack of consent in life has been observed after death or whether it is possible to break this objection in specific situations. Hence, the decisions made in other countries are important in this regard. Legislation in European countries is uneven in this respect, but it is overwhelming, as the rapporteur pointed out, to allow the patient's failure to agree after his death in special situations. In the case of different and generally quite acute conditions, access to information or medical records of a deceased patient may be permitted despite the opposition he expressed during his life. in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Spain, Latvia, Germany, Slovakia, Hungary and the United Kingdom. There are also countries where the patient's lack of consent to access to medical confidentiality after his death is strictly respected, such as Ireland, Portugal and Romania. Minister! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above position, the Law and Justice Club supports the draft amendment of the law presented in Seym Print No 3019 [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u174	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Elizabeth Gelert, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present the position of this club in relation to the print project No. 3019. Of course, as has been said, this law concerns exemption from medical confidentiality, as well as the possibility of access to medical records after the patient's death. If the patient does not reserve access to documentation or medical information during his/her lifetime, there is no problem and it could actually be said that such a solution could be accepted. On the other hand, the solution regarding the case where we say that the patient in life has forbidden access to medical records, as well as information about his health, raises a lot of doubts. In our view, the statutory change of patient's will in the event of death is too far-reaching intervention in his rights and personal interests. There are already sufficient legal solutions to allow insurers, regional committees for decision-making on medical events and courts to access the documentation regardless of the concerns made by the patient. You have cited examples of other countries and what it looks like in other countries, but it was not said that in these other countries the aim is primarily the overriding public interest, but in our country, the aim is to seek compensation or redress. Is this an overriding public interest? This raises some doubts, at least in my mind, and you have cited examples of these countries as worthy of imitation. But also many other countries have this absolute confidentiality and you have also given these examples. Therefore, it is really up to us, the parliament, which option we will take and in which direction we will go. The Civic Platform is against violating the patient's will and will therefore oppose this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u176	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on the Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist, and the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient is intended to give family members the opportunity to access the medical records of a deceased patient, even if the deceased in their lifetime did not authorize them to consult the documentation, which is of great importance for those loved ones who have doubts about the circumstances of the patient's death. At the same time, in order to preserve privacy, the patient has the right to declare during his/her lifetime opposition to the possibility of making medical records available to a person or to a loved one. On the other hand, people who are formally considered to be close, but actually had no relationship with the patient or these relationships were clearly reprehensible, will probably not have access to information about the patient... [[Voice from the room: Probably.]] ...including access to his medical records, it must be presumed that such persons would be subject to an objection expressed during the life of the patient or would not receive a positive decision of the court - I stress here that this is a presumption, it is not obvious, that is not a certainty. Furthermore, none of the loved ones will be able to deny other loved ones access to information about a deceased patient. The procedures for accessing patient information will become transparent. Medical professionals will not need to examine whether a specific person seeking access to information meets the statutory criteria of a loved one. This will be done by the court by examining the request of the person concerned. The bill puts great responsibility on the court. And here again, I would like to stress two words: "probably" or "proudly," that is, this law is not as precise as we would expect as patients who would like the law to be very clear about their status, in this case after death. Of course, we understand the reservations that my predecessor has expressed here, and it is indeed a matter that may be troubling, but putting on the line the two things that appear in this bill, the positive ones and those that raise doubts, but our club has decided that, despite some reservations, we will support this law and vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u178	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles are increasingly aware of the rights related to the protection of personal data. This is mainly due to situations that the media has made public, in which our data is used unlawfully, e.g. through websites, or leak out of the institutions to which we entrusted their processing. The protection of personal data is also the protection of medical records and the procedures for accessing it have not been precisely regulated so far. The draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients, on which I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern, in a key aspect regulates the issue of access to medical records in the event of the patient's death. In the current legal situation in the case of a family conflict, there was a situation where one of the persons entitled to access medical records could block access to it for others. This, in turn, may have led to a breach of the laws in force by doctors or the hospital director. The proposed regulations first of all remove the unnecessary legal responsibility of doctors for the disclosure of health information to relatives in the event of the death of a family member. At the same time, the work of the subcommittee and the committee have managed to limit the involvement of the judiciary only to cases which raise reasonable doubts. The direction of any request to establish access to medical records would certainly lead to unnecessary involvement of already overcharged number of court cases in Poland. It took months to work on this project. This is an example of the correct approach of all committee members to the problem faced by many doctors in the face of a request for medical records to be made available to deceased persons claiming to be loved persons. In addition, it is important to emphasise the fact that in the Polish law the name of a loved one should be clarified and, consequently, the creation of a catalogue of persons who have access to medical information. Modern supports legislation that improves and refines access to medical records, while limiting the involvement of justice authorities in this process only to questionable situations. We will vote in favour of the proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u180	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr John Łopata, the PSL - Union of European Democrats. There isn't. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. As the applicants point out, this project responds to a petition addressed to the Polish Parliament by the Lublin Association of Family Doctors - Employers. It refers to changes to the rules on the obligation to keep confidential information related to the patient after his death and to the rules on access to medical records. The solutions proposed in the novel are among others. the addition to the catalogue of relatives of the deceased patient of his siblings, the granting of competence to the courts in matters of non-trial dispute between the relatives concerning the disclosure of secrecy and the introduction of four general grounds for the action of the courts in this field. Most of the changes contained in the draft do not raise any objections. These are good solutions, which for many doctors will provide significant facilitation of work through, among others. regulation of ambiguous issues so far. A change that may raise doubts is a regulation whereby the court will make decisions also in cases where a patient in life has opposed disclosure, and the will of loved ones is to be rejected. I understand the argument of the opponents of this solution, who prove that it is a violation of human rights to autonomy and privacy. However, I share the opinion of the designers. In such a case, the provision of information or part of information will not be based solely on the will of the family, but on the decision of an independent court which will base its opinion on four statutory grounds. Thus, given the various everyday and unusual situations faced by doctors, patients and their families, the possibility contained in these regulations may have a positive dimension. I have no doubt that this amendment increases the transparency of the procedure for accessing patient information and increases the protection of the patient's privacy. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u182	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr John Łopata, the PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. High Izbo! Unfortunately, this law is another example of some sloppyness and nonchalance when establishing law in Poland. The General Data Protection Officer clearly demonstrates in his opinion that if his reservations and observations in his position of 23 June 2016 were taken into account, the law which entered into force on 5 August 2016 and which liberalizes the patient's privacy model after his death would not have been amended today. High Izbo! Note that only two years have passed, and this law requires quite a radical correction. But first things first. Let us remind you that the need to amend these provisions was tabled in the form of petitions by the Lublin Association of Family Doctors - Employers, and this was essentially a request for the repeal of the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In force from 5 August 2016, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3a the Act of 5 December 1996 on the Competition of Doctors and Dentist and Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and 4 of the Act of 6 November 2008 on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. What does the petitioner see as a problem? It's a raised article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 it was said that the doctor is bound by medical confidentiality even after the patient's death, unless the consent to disclosure is expressed by a person close to him within the meaning of Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Act of 6 November 2018 on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. Exemption from medical confidentiality referred to in paragraph 1. 3, shall not apply if the disclosure of secrecy is opposed by another person close to it within the meaning of the same provisions. High Seym! As the complainants point out, these provisions are contrary to the Constitution and, in particular, infringe the Article. Article 2 and Article 2 47 constitutions, and in the form they are written, become impossible. It's just hard to disagree with that. The rules introduced deprive the patient of the possibility to decide who may have access to medical data concerning him after his death. As defined in the Act, close person is also the person indicated by the patient. And it was the need to amend these rules that gave rise to the need for petition. As a result of the leaning of the Health Commission on this problem - I think that today the Sejm will also agree - it has been decided that who is close to you is decided by the court, not by doctors or hospital directors. To sum up, it seems that the proposed changes are justified and on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats I declare my support for this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u184	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to add yourself to the list of Members asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the following questions: How does the Code of Medical Ethics apply to the provisions of this Act, which makes it clear that medical secrecy applies to each of us after the patient leaves? Question two. What are the grounds for the court? There's really nothing in the bill, no details. Is there gonna be any judge around here? And question three. As we all know, the current whole machine takes over after leaving the patient who objected, all his records. Why does this law refer to It's just about keeping medical confidentiality, and there's nothing about securing this file by other staff, management, archive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u186	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because the president of the subcommittee said that this also applies to amendments to the Act on the Ombudsman, my question is this: Is the representative of the Ombudsman here with us? Because so far I may just have not noticed him, and I think that he should be here with us and also discuss this with us. And the question to him is: How does the spokesperson of the patient's rights respond to this law, in particular the patient's will on this issue? Once again, I stress that man is actually deprived of the right to express his will. Because if you can always break it, break it at any time, as you say, then I don't think that's right. But that's a question for the spokesperson, what's his attitude towards this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u188	Thank you. The question is asked by Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u189	Minister, a very general question. The Committee on Petitions immediately proposed that litigation be settled by the court. Personally, I am also in favour of this solution, and the subcommittee and committee are in favour of this solution as well. On the other hand, it draws attention to a dissonance, namely we are proposing this, while those European countries which have decided to break the decision of a deceased patient entrust this task to medical staff, white staff. Does this not show that we have little confidence in doctors and doctors, since this solution, commonly used in Europe, has not actually been taken into account at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u190	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Zbigniew the King to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for taking up this petition, which was submitted by doctors, doctors, who also have a Code of Medical Ethics, which is the environment that has a problem with it. If this were not the case, we would probably not have responded to the petition in the way we reacted, which is as indicated. These are months of debates, debates and discussions at the subcommittee meetings, then in the Health Committee. Well, maybe I'll start sloppy anyway, not the way the questions were asked. I'm gonna answer the question as to whether there's a patient's attorney. The patient's spokesperson has been involved in the work since the beginning and, as you probably remember, at some point... [[Voice from the room: But not quite.]] From the beginning to the end. This is a project that is being presented to Parliament at the moment, and at the last meeting of the Health Committee, the representative of the patient's right to be fully supported, as it is. was also recorded at the meeting of that committee. He's not here, so I can't answer on his behalf, I'm just repeating that statement that was made at the time. This bill is difficult. This was also the result of the discussion we held at the committee meeting. It is difficult, in the context of its object itself, that is, when and who should decide about this release. There is a question - what Mrs Chybicka has noticed and what she has asked - what are the reasons for this. These are described in this bill. This is the interest of the parties to the proceedings. They're loved ones who are defined by this bill. Mr Jan Łopa called for a law that entered into force in August 2016 and limited some kind of definition of this person. And many doctors, many medical personnel, many directors of different units had problems defining whether this information could be passed on or not. There were also certain complaints, complaints, including actions for failure to keep this secret. And that's how I understand the will of doctors who petitioned to define these matters. I'm going back to those conditions here. The court makes a decision, because it's not like it's zero-only defined that we're filing a motion in the event of someone close to us leaving, and we're getting permission to access this file. First of all, we need to prove this real relationship with a loved one. It is also about the situations that were discussed during the long-term deliberations of the committee. When such consent is sought by a person who has not given any assistance to his loved one over the past few years, he will certainly not have access to this medical file. The court also takes into account the will of the deceased, so it is not that the court automatically violates that will. The will of the dead is always important. Referring to this will of the deceased in the Polish system, I also at the same time reply to Mr Dziuba that in Poland there is no habit of blocking the provision of information to loved ones. Usually hospitals require - more and more often at the moment, you can say that almost always - signed information to whom you can share information. But there are situations in which this loved one is not exactly the person who is most interested in those who are in the hospital with their loved ones. The problem with the fact that this person who has a certain right to acquire this information is definitely limited to that person, and this often happens. It also happens, especially in emergencies such as accidents, that a person is not even able to tell whom to give this information. And this bill, in line with the petition, we want to relieve the burden on the white staff in terms of responsibility, and because of these demands that have affected you as members of the Committee on Petitions, which also affected the work on this project from medical circles supporting that the decision should not be on the side of the doctor, the director of the hospital or the director of the unit, but only so that the court can give such information in accordance with these conditions in the draft law. About Why We Solve it's a little different than those countries that agree to hand over this responsibility, and I have to say that we probably still have to work on social awareness about what the role is, what is the responsibility of doctors, nurses, health professionals, what trust we have in them. I think we all have to build this trust together, because these are people who, in fact, - especially in these difficult situations, in relation to illness or the need to provide care - are confidants of various kinds of secrets. But this is probably something that we should probably work on not only in Parliament, but also in non-parliamentarians. I hope I answered all the questions, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u192	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care, print No 3068. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future (prints No. 2960 and 3063). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the government draft law on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future, print 2960, report - print 3063. The funder of the platform is the Treasury represented in the project, as presented by the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. The bill creates a new institution, which is supposed to be a tool to help introduce industry 4.0 in our country. We see how the economy is developing, at what rate. There are processes that lead to the introduction of new technologies, management, which is also linked to cyberdevelopment. Our country, in order not to get away from it, from these trends, from the possibility of a faster development of the economy, had to take measures that would introduce such solutions, and the foundation would be a tool that could introduce these solutions. The draft contains general provisions relating to the nature of the institution, indicating the main objectives, tasks. These main tasks are focused on helping our entrepreneurs implement these objectives of industry 4.0. The next element of the project is the sources of funding. The Foundation will operate in this main support system of foundations, will be subjective grants from the state budget. The project shall also specify the bodies, statutes, supervision and types of support to be proposed to businesses. The main types of support are training and advice. Of course, these provisions also include provisions on helping businesses, which will lead to solutions mainly in the area of economic innovation. The first reading of the project took place at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The subcommittee was decided by the Members. Following the submission of the subcommittee's report, further work took place within the committee, where 8 amendments were adopted. On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I request that the proposed bill on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future be adopted in line with the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future, print No. 2960. The government, following the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy, planned that a significant part of this strategy would be the Polish Industrial Platform 4.0. The emergence of industry 4.0 is due to the natural turn of events in the area of the rapid development of developed economies. The short life cycle of products, the departure from mass production to demand production, the rapid development of technology, the digitalisation of production necessitates major changes in the economy. Simply put, Industry 4.0 is the fourth industrial revolution, a vision of intelligent factories built from intelligent cyberphysical systems, intelligent production systems, management systems, sometimes even self-configuration, self-control. At the first stage, it is mainly the introduction of more robotic production processes than ever before. The implementation of this idea is to be served by the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. The direct objective of this project is to promote the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs through multi-directional support. Here is the planned coordination of industry 4.0, training, advice that will be directly addressed to entrepreneurs. But of course this is also the coordination of the functioning of all institutions that operate within the framework of the introduction of industry 4.0. Doubts can be raised about the form of implementation, that is, the form of the foundation, but - as can be seen in the explanatory memorandum - the Ministry very carefully analysed the form of the institution, this platform, and probably the best form of operation of this platform was chosen in our opinion. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill submitted and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u196	Thank you very much. I invite you to the floor of Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, to present the position of this club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Parliamentaries! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present my position on the draft law on the Foundation of the Platform for the Industry of the Future, prints No. 2960 and 3063. Dear Parliamentaries! The industrial revolution 4.0 in the world is a fact and takes place in front of our eyes, and in Poland the rulers for 3 years did not notice this. We have the impression that the project we are discussing today is the result of a strong need for support, but not for entrepreneurs and the Polish economy, but for their staff. Therefore, governments propose to establish a foundation under the proud name of the Platform for the Industry of the Future. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Knowing what has been done so far, even in terms of reforming and practically dismantling the legal system, in terms of sealing the financial system, as a result of which we have the KNF scandal or in terms of reforming education, and really deforming the educational system, we have looked at this project and it is difficult not to notice that setting up a foundation under a proud name will not help the Polish economy or Polish entrepreneurs, but it can help the government-dependent staff, providing them with decent wages and a development fund. According to the assumptions, the project is intended to help to create a leap, increase productivity, solve the problem of staff shortages in enterprises by combining workers' decision-making with the precision of robots and, in many cases, replacing workers with robots. The justification for the project contains a lot of real information about technology development in the framework of industrial revolutions 4.0 with which it is difficult to argue, because everything confirms this direction of economic development. However, we need to ask the fundamental questions: Will the solutions proposed in the project, including the creation of the Future Industry Platform Foundation, solve problems, help solve problems that Polish entrepreneurs face? Will they encounter such situations in the future and will these solutions improve the competitiveness of the Polish economy? We have read into the provisions of the project and, participating actively in the legislative process, as a Civic Platform club, we believe that unfortunately the establishment of a foundation does not guarantee the achievement of these objectives. The key to adapting Polish companies to the industrial revolution 4.0 is not to set up a foundation, but to use support systems, specific tools to convince company managers to see the potential in this revolution and to apply it properly to their subordinates and to require it from them. No charity can provide that. Only the Management Board can use concrete solutions and discipline its staff to implement innovative solutions. The biggest customer is the market, because competition forces all actions. And until entrepreneurs decide it themselves, it is product and management innovation, they will not implement solutions, and no foundation without specific support schemes will produce the desired results and will not force them to do so. It is not without significance that the objectives of the foundation are very vague in the project and it will be very difficult to assess their implementation. Similarly, the way in which staff are employed and the requirements imposed on them do not guarantee the achievement of the objectives pursued. Therefore, as a Civic Platform club, we apply to reject the project in its entirety. Marshal, you're welcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Blaze Parda. I do not see you from the Kukiz club15, so - the Modern Club, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. Please state your position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: there is a saying that good intentions are paved hell, and I assume that this project can be viewed in these categories. I'm not denying you that you meant well. This idea of supporting, modernising forms of production, introducing automation, modernising plants is the right thing, but the question is whether the instruments you have chosen are appropriate. I will say, as a representative of the Modern Party, that we should do everything in our power to develop civil society - contrary to the opinion of the Law and Justice - that everything must be state-owned - that we do not think that. We should give people a choice, we should give people some freedom, and we should benefit from the experience of institutions that already exist on the market, I can say in quotes that could take over those things that you are talking about. We believe that the less policies and states in the economy, the better for the economy. That is why we are wondering whether the formation of such a serious institution as a state foundation, which will have a high budget, because it is twenty-six million per year, will indeed have the expected effect. In committee and subcommittees, we worked together to improve this bill. I will make a few amendments today, but to sum up this debate that has taken place, let me be honest, you have not convinced me, Minister, or your colleagues, that this is the best solution. As I said, I am absolutely not questioning the desire to do something useful, good, but given the recent years and the government's enthusiasm to regulate so well on the matter of everything, all the spheres of public life, I will say that this is also part of this thinking: the states will not replace anything, we have to decide, so it's up to us to tell you how to do it, we'll tell you how to do it, we'll give you money when you come, we'll help you. The fact is, this foundation is supposed to give these companies not financial resources, just the latest technical thought, and you're supposed to help achieve it. You are calling on entrepreneurs to invest their private funds to improve this result, which is horrible, given the announcement of 21-, 22-percent growth, i.e. announcements that this will be the level of investment in the private sector. Turns out we've got 17%. , the lowest percentage of private investment in industry. The question is, where does this come from? Doesn't it come from the fact that entrepreneurs just don't believe you? Unfortunately, these actions that are taken in the government, these laws that appear here, are very bad laws for entrepreneurs. To be honest, I think entrepreneurs would be more pleased if you kept your promise and VAT, that would be 22%, not 23%. They'd really be more pleased. They would be more pleased if we said: listen, you will have additional funds just for investments, because we do not offer CIT 15%, only PIT 15% for smaller ones. Of course, big companies can handle it. I don't think we're needed for this or the government. They know exactly how to run their business, they have access to the best and latest technology. Therefore, it is done a little bit forcefully. We are aware that this foundation will rise. We have no doubt about that: the arithmetic in the Seym is this, not different. Therefore, we will report three amendments to this law and we will look at it. As the foundation will rise, we will ask, however, that, since it is a state foundation, some activity reports be presented to the High House, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with achievements, and that is what we will strive for. Thank you very much, and I'm making you the Marshal of Corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u200	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to the floor, and I ask you to present your position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, progress and modernity are advisable, by all means. We're watching this progress get faster and faster. It's hard for all of us to keep up, and I think that's what's going to happen, because newer and more complicated technologies are coming up. You gotta get used to it. It is advisable to support all of this - because it is not even to support these solutions, but to convince people, citizens, entrepreneurs to enter into this modernity. Here's what I'm gonna say: The foundation you want to set up... There are bad associations here in this room, because we have often voted for different foundations, and then we had to be ashamed of what these foundations were doing and doing. There have also been lofty words here, how good it will be, how it will promote our economy. Later it turned out that of course it promotes, but the party called PiS. So if we're already doing something, it should serve the general good, general development, entrepreneurs. For this we have no conviction, the more that this law is not precise. There's no proper records there. And when it comes to what the previous speaker has said, it will be difficult to even value and estimate these benefits later, because I cannot imagine how it will be possible to value and estimate. Well, progress is, the economy will grow, modernity will enter, but will it be due to the fact that this foundation is functioning? How will this money be shared, how will it work? Another thing that is also very important - we are talking very beautifully about this modernity, we are preparing various projects here, I could mention at least a few, but not in this thing, and on the other hand, because we have the other side, this duality, what is said differently, and what else is being realized. There is, for example, an example in recent days: modernity in energy. We're gonna go into this modern energy industry, but somebody try it in a minute. The coal will move us - well, over my dead body, over my dead body. So there should be a clear message here. If we enter modernity, we have a clear and clear message. We support such solutions, but we do not support selective treatment, because what is different is said to those entrepreneurs who are very modern and would like to benefit from it: yes, you are beautiful, we will support you, and what is different is said to those who love coal: no, don't listen to them, because we have an idea here to defend it forever. So if we're doing something, let's do it with a specific assumption. So that gives me such a negative approach to this. I still, honestly, don't know if we're gonna support this project because it raises a lot of doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I can't hear you. We therefore begin with Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Personally, I am a little sceptical when the new institutions are called up, there are agencies, foundations, because it is possible to see if the ones that are already in operation could not carry out the tasks that this particular foundation, which we are discussing here today, is going to perform. However, we ask the Minister to establish once again - we have already discussed this in committee, in subcommittee - why this form was chosen, such an organisational and legal form in the form of a foundation. Why would you just... We also talked about how these issues are solved in Germany or in the Czech Republic, that a little bit in a different form is done there, this platform operates in a different form, think tank probably in Germany, and there are also some universities in the Czech Republic. So that I would ask once again for such justification, to believe that this foundation should actually be established, but not in the organisational form that already exists, works and supports entrepreneurs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only in this form of foundation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u204	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We analyzed the whole of this law and had reservations about the form of election of the board members. There it is allowed for the number of members of the council to be up to 21, but 12 people are seconded by individual ministers. There's a few places left. We have tabled an amendment to guarantee at least three places for representatives of industry, three places for representatives of science, because we believe that this is not precisely a balance - the fact that you have predicted that someone from industry will be there, someone from science, and yet more will be officials. I have no doubt about that. Although there is no indication that the candidate of the individual minister is to be an official, we fear that this advice, even though it is not paid, will dominate the body. That's why I hope you're here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will agree to this and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u206	Thank you very much. And the last question here will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about two or three specific entries, so that you can point them out to me, which will convince the entrepreneur to take advantage of the proposals of the Foundation's Platform for the Industry of the Future, such specific, measurable ones that give something more concrete than other entities that are on the market and provide similar services. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u208	Thank you very much. And I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr. Marcin Ociepa. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for your speeches and all your questions. I'm totally starting my speech with optimism. I believe that I will convince Mr Meysztowicz and even Mrs Nykiel to vote in favour of this law. Why? Because you have drawn attention to issues that are 100% consistent with the draft law on the Future Industry Platform Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen! How do we diagnose what are the main barriers we have identified today when it comes to adapting to this new breakthrough, about the inclusion of Polish entrepreneurs in the fourth industrial revolution? Firstly, there is a low awareness of the phenomenon of this revolution and related technologies and a lack of knowledge among entrepreneurs how to implement these technologies. Secondly, the level of cooperation between companies and institutions is too low. Thirdly, there is no organisation in Poland that coordinates, implements and monitors the digital transformation. This is the diagnosis that we actually agree with, which is the result of these speeches. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the question that you asked President Meysztowicz about the role of civil society, the market, the entrepreneurs themselves, I will add: universities. Until we had this debate, we put forward a bill, it was a showcase for these institutions. And we will diagnose - not in the category of regret or resentment, but some reflection - what else could we do as a country to help these processes. So what has been happening so far in terms of adapting, entering entrepreneurs into the fourth industrial revolution, when they had a free hand -- let's add, of course, to be clearly understood -- that when there was no platform, we still were not able to get rid of the impression that the three diagnoses I made were still valid. And now: a responsible country is a country that does not withdraw, which seeks a role for itself, how to help the economy, how to support entrepreneurs. And that's what we answer. And is that necessary? Dear Mrs Nykiel de facto mentioned this - when she put the thesis - what should be done. And, in fact, she said in one breath what the foundation will be doing, because that is exactly what she will be doing. These will include information, demonstration, promotion, support, training and initiation of building and developing activities that form a profile for the competitive industry of the future and their integration, capacity building, networking, coordination of digital innovation hubs, and standardisation of these centres. That's exactly what the foundation's gonna do, which is exactly what the platform we're talking about is gonna do. And it's not like we're starting now, because we've put the diagnosis in the Responsible Development Strategy, and that's where the foundation is written. And, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Poland has consistently introduced a strategy for responsible development, because it was another matter for the High House to adopt a package of laws called the constitution of business, a constitution for science, an act on innovation, an act on electromobility. This is all a logical sequence of consistent responses to the challenges of the future we face. Ladies and gentlemen! I answer the questions that have been asked. As far as the legal form is concerned, we have analysed, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, various types of possibilities. We have analysed the issue of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. On the other hand, taking into account the law on the creation of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development, the tasks that PARP has... In a word, we really need a complementary mechanism to the PARP, so in this sense it would be insufficient to include this in the tasks of PARP, which deals with the development of the entrepreneurship sense of largo. We want to be precise, with surgical precision, to respond to the needs of industry. PARP is an organisation which has a much more horizontal approach to the development of the economy, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So I think it's very important. The Industrial Development Agency, for example, another entity, is a company, and we are very clear that the aim of the foundation is not to make a profit, and this, however, conflicts with a legal form in which the Industrial Development Agency operates. Ladies and gentlemen! This is indeed the case - and I think it is worth saying that this is not a coincidence - that in many European countries such platforms have already been created. They are, of course, always different, because ecosystems differ, legal ecosystems differ, experience differ, the role of the state is different, but these foundations have always been created with the support of the state. [[And how do I account for...]] It has always been the case that the countries have not been averted, and today we are having an advanced dialogue with the German Government, the Czech Government, with regard to the pooling of potential, the cooperation of these platforms, because they are to cooperate with entrepreneurs, the entities to which we dedicate this foundation, and not necessarily the space for cooperation between governments. It is precisely about integrating experience, integrating the potential behind industry, behind science, and behind the platform that is supposed to connect these two worlds. Mr Meysztowicz has tabled an amendment. I would like to get acquainted with it, but, Mr President, we will probably be happy to support it, because when you propose that there be at least three representatives of the world of science, as I understand it, and the world of industry... Mr President, we want almost all the council to be made up of these representatives, so it's not like... We're talking about 21 people that we definitely want this advice to be soaked in their experience, so there's no problem to clarify that number. [[Declaration.]] As the Ministry of Economy, we would like to point out such representatives. I am convinced that other departments will do the same because this is not the space for administrative and official activity. That's why I think we absolutely agree here. Why should entrepreneurs benefit, and why will they benefit? This law is already mentioned in the article. 1: we will support the improvement of technical, technological, organizational entrepreneurs, we will provide them with machinery parks, laboratories, infrastructure that will foster the development of their activities. They won't have to own it, they'll be able to use it. They will be participants - if they want to, of course, but we will create incentive mechanisms - training, consulting processes, so that they can simply take advantage of this offer. She's not mandatory, contrary to what... There were such suggestions that the state wanted to replace someone. No, the state wants to be active in supplementing what isn't there. That's why they'll be able to benefit, they won't have to. But I am convinced that when we propose the Future Industry Platform, which will be a modern institution, a modern space for meeting the world of science, business, the possibility of internationalising their own experiences and economic activity, they calculate a simple thing that they are paying off. And there is a deep belief in entrepreneurs that they expect the state not to replace them, but that it will create the right conditions for them to develop, that it will support them in this transformation process. That is why the Future Industry Platform is the best response to the challenges we face. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u210	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Gawron, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Ministry for the effort it has put into this construction of the foundation rules. I think that as a committee of the economy after a year, we will simply examine the effects of this foundation's operation so that it actually serves entrepreneurs. I think that's the goal, and that's how it's gonna be done. I would also like to thank all the representatives of the committee, the subcommittees for such reliable work, and I think that these amendments, which have been tabled by the Modern Club, will be considered. It is a pity, however, that the Civic Platform Club has submitted a motion to reject this law. So, once again, I thank you all for your work so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. But I think, after the Minister's words, it must be considered that these amendments could be correct in all respects, because we have already heard a comment on this subject today. So making amendments isn't a bad thing. The discussion is closed. [[Absolutely.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on family support and foster care and some other laws (print No 3023). Two minutes off because we're still waiting for Mr. Stanislaw Swede's Undersecretary of State. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 06 hours 16 min 08]] I'll resume after adjournment. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda. I invite the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry I'm late, but there's a lot of speed on the agenda. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an amendment to the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, Parliamentary printing No 3023. What are the main objectives of the changes to the foster care law? The draft law amending the law on family support and foster care and some other laws focuses in particular on family support solutions through the development of services for the care of children, the process of transformation in the area of institutional foster care, the development of family forms of foster care, the issue of the emancipation of adult foster care pupils and the issue of adoption. Since the entry into force of the Act on support of family and foster care system, i.e. since 1 January 2012, the process of transformation in the area of foster care has been gradually implemented in Poland aimed at building the system primarily on family forms of foster care. Care and education institutions will continue to function, but their role is gradually reduced. In 2017, in the family foster care, i.e. foster families and foster homes, there was a total of over 55 thousand. children placed in more than 37 thousand the foster care of family members. In comparison, over 17,000 people stayed in the institutional foster care during the same period. children. The need for revision is therefore primarily due to the need to accelerate the process of change in the area of foster care. Changes in the area of family support focus on creating a wide range of services for a family that raises children, especially a family that suffers from care and education problems, so as to minimise the need to separate the child from the family. Once a child is placed in foster care, it is difficult to accept that children under the age of 7 are still placed in institutional care. We need much more dedicated foster parents to raise children, and therefore we need to propose mechanisms to facilitate them. Another important objective of the Act is to strengthen the tools for the self-emancipation of adult foster care pupils, so that their start in adult life is properly supported and financially supported. Finally, the issue of strengthening procedures aimed at obtaining candidates for adoptive parents, especially ready for adoption in Poland of older children or more siblings. National adoption or a stable foster environment is the solution for children permanently deprived of their parents' care. The latter is intended to further reduce the so-called "deficiencies." international adoptions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also present some detailed solutions that are included in the draft law. The first objective is to strengthen family support tools so that the number of children placed in foster care each year is further gradually reduced and the number of children returning home from foster care per year is growing. This will be served, among other things, by extending the family directory for which the family assistant is dedicated - besides families experiencing difficulties in carrying out care and education functions from the assistant's services, any family in need of support in raising children will be able to benefit, secondly, the compulsory assignment of an assistant to the family in case the child is placed in foster care, thirdly ensuring the possibility of creating branches of a daily support facility e.g. in every village. This solution will provide greater access for children to daily support facilities. In the situation of small rural communities it will be possible to operate a branch even for several children. Second objective: to put in place mechanisms to ensure that new candidates are more effectively recruited to act as a foster family or are willing to run a family home. Here we offer the following facilitations. Firstly, to facilitate the establishment of new foster families. It was pointed out that candidates for foster parents will be able to receive the necessary training and qualifications in each district in Poland, and not only in the district of residence. Secondly, improving the situation of those who create family foster care by introducing the principle that the remuneration of the foster family and the family home of the child must not be lower than the minimum wage for work. Thirdly, the nature of the contract to act as a substitute for a professional family has been changed from the contract for an indefinite period of time. Fourthly, the introduction of an obligation to employ a person to assist in the care and upbringing of foster families and foster homes in the care of at least three children, including at least one with disabilities. The provision follows the demands of foster families raising a child with disabilities. Another objective we want to set out in this Act is to implement the appropriate, stable family environment for younger children, especially those under the age of seven, through, first, the introduction of an electronic system for registering the central places of foster care, foster families, independent persons and the provision of data to organisational units supporting the family and foster care. This solution is intended to serve a better organization of foster care and compatible with the child's welfare in search of spare places of foster care throughout Poland by a family court. This will apply from 2020. Secondly, exceptions are being removed to allow children under 10 years of age to be placed in nursing establishments in order to eliminate the placement of younger children in institutions. Thirdly, the participation of municipalities in the co-financing of children's stay in foster care in the first two years of their stay in a foster family is increasing: first year - 30%, second year - 40% , third and subsequent years - 50% , and the principle of rewarding the municipality in the event of a permanent return of the child to the biological family is introduced. Another problem that we want to address in this law in a special way is the issue of the independence of adult foster care pupils, so as to ensure that pupils are given an effective start in adulthood. This is to be done by the following changes. Firstly, the amount of aid is increased to self-emancipate in the case of an independent person leaving a family of relatives. Secondly, the catalogue of persons who can act as an independent guardian has been extended by adding an NGO employee and another person designated by that organisation to act as an independent guardian. Thirdly, courses and other forms of training provided by the Voluntary Labour Service have been included in the catalogue of possible forms of learning by an independent applicant for further education. And fourthly, the income criterion of PLN 1200 was abolished to enable self-employment and development aid, in order to encourage self-employed people to take up employment. With this change, every single person will receive support. The fifth element of such changes, the specific objectives I will mention, is the issue of facilitating national adoption and strengthening the powers of parents adopting older children. This objective is to be achieved by the following changes. Firstly, increase the role of the Minister responsible for family affairs in the organisation of adoption centres in order to ensure the proper structure of adoption centres in individual voivodships. Secondly, the extension of the catalogue of persons entitled to leave on maternity leave. At present, this right is available to adoptive parents who provide a child up to the age of 7 and, in the case of a child who has been decided to postpone school duties, no longer than until they have completed their 10th year of age. Parents adopting older children will benefit from the proposed solution of 10 or 5 weeks of maternity leave also when adopting older children. Holidays are supposed to be about adapting a child to a new family. We hope that such facilitation may affect the decision to adopt older children. Thirdly, the participation of the Marshal of voivodship and voivodship in the work of the adoption centre. Fourthly, an extension of the period during which parents consent to adoption without the indication of the accomplice. That's so-called. Blanket adoption. The change concerns an extension of up to 10 weeks of the period during which parents consent to adoption without indication of the accomplice. This period is now 6 weeks and seems too short for such an irreversible decision to be taken. Fifthly, changes in foreign adoption, including the possibility of taking over the tasks of the central data bank and introducing a two-step exercise of the tasks of the central authority. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I presented the main assumptions for the bill, as well as the specific objectives of the changes. I ask the High House to work on a law in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka to present her position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the law on family support and foster care and certain other laws contained in print No 3023. First of all, I would like to point out that the law on family support and foster care is monitored every year. We are looking into the government's report on this matter and the changes proposed in this project are basically derived from the analyses carried out, from the discussions with the environment which is interested and co-organizes and co-creates the foster care system. This is undoubtedly a good step towards improving the tools for achieving the main objectives, and I think that the main objectives are essentially outside the discussion. The main objective of the Law on support for family and foster care is to support families in the performance of care and care functions, as well as to provide all those children who, for various reasons, are usually 100% independent of them. independent, deprived of the family environment. And these children are obliged to create conditions for living in the family environment. These two objectives are outside the discussion. From the information we receive on the basis of the monitoring of this law, it appears that this process is progressing too slowly. There is a problem with getting candidates for foster parents, and therefore there is also a problem with the fact that we can say that this institutional care of care institutions - we used to call them foster homes - that this stage of change is behind us. Despite the existing law, which prohibits the placing of children under the age of 10 in specialised institutions, they still go there. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister discussed very carefully the specific objectives of this law, some of its solutions. I wanted to draw attention to this element, which, I think, needs a stronger mark in this bill. The direction of the planned changes, that is to organize the work before the moment when the child has to go to a family other than his own, biological, is good. Here we have an invaluable role as family assistant. This assist system is developing. It is financed from various budgetary sources, but the components of this system are created quite slowly. The family assistant is the key, he is the key to supporting the family in which the child is and who is in difficulty. The bill basically talks about the support of every family that raises a child through day support facilities. If there is a need to take care of the child at a time when the parents are active, then under this law all children can be taken care of. The family assistant has a special role to play. We will also direct him to a family from which the child has been taken into foster care. The execution of this work is a very important element. In order for the foster care to be only for a period of time, it is necessary to work with the family to improve its living conditions, attitudes, parental awareness, so that the return to the biological family can take place as soon as possible. That's what they're supposed to do, so to speak, with the various tools reinforced by this bill. High Izbo! The project submitted can be called a major amendment. I am convinced that the objectives set and the tools adapted to these objectives will help to improve the welfare of children who need special adult assistance, and that family work, support for families with children will create the conditions for the child's wellbeing in the family environment to be pursued as far as possible. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and requests that it be referred to further [[♪ The bell ♪]] legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u216	Thank you, Member. I invite you to the speaker of Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform, which will present the speech on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the justification for the amendment of the law on family support and foster care, we read: The aim of the amendments is primarily to strengthen family support tools so that the number of children placed in foster care each year is further gradually reduced, as well as to introduce mechanisms to ensure more effective recruitment of new candidates for the role of foster family or willing to run a family home so that children placed in foster care provide optimal conditions for development. An issue requiring urgent interference is the acceleration of changes in the institutional foster care area, above all the implementation of security solutions for the right, stable family environment for younger children, especially those under the age of 7. Full agreement on these objectives, Minister, full agreement. It's the right thing to do. At the moment when we were building a law on family support and foster care, we talked about the fact that the most important thing is family support so strong that as little as possible children from the biological family to rip out, so that as few children as possible require support by others or foster parents, because it is undeniable that the best, best, friendly environment for children is their own mom and their own dad, but if you can't do it, then it's foster care. At this first step in strengthening the family, the active attitude of the municipality, that is, the local government, which is closest to it, is essential. Hence, in the law on supporting the family supporting the family through the family assistant, hence daily support centers, thus psychological and pedagogical assistance - all on the basis of the operation of the commune. Does this law, this amendment, clearly help in this? In some ways, yes. We say, for example, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey that all children, all families at their request can receive support from their assistant family - a good step in the right direction - that day-care centers, such daily actually skylights, as we have said before, can be opened with branches in any small village, where even a few children can benefit from this support - a very good step in a very good direction. But there is already a question of burdening an extra burden on a family assistant today, burdening a certain number of families that are not included in the limit. Incidentally, assistant work is a great job, because in more than 45% effective - after a year of this work families end their cooperation with the assistant family because they achieved the effect they assumed. There are few professions that can boast of such efficiency. Well, we add to this number of families, which today include their care, support from the family assistant, additional families, which for 3 years after the work of an assistant with a given family must be monitored by him. However, we are not talking about improving the financial conditions of the family assistant, and this is a task commissioned by the state, we do not find new sources of funding in this bill. So we charge the assistant very hard, our requirements are increasing, and financing is de facto decreasing. The other leg of it... Your Marshal, by the way, I protest, really - five minutes to discuss 200 articles of the bill is unbelievable. But it's okay. The foster bake is the county. Here, it would seem that the situation is well diagnosed when we say: a child under the age of 10 must be in family care, not institutional care, and family care, because it is effective and cheaper, but the way we want to increase this quantity, the scale of family care and foster care in relation to institutional care, is unacceptable, Minister. Because the exemption of the municipality from payment when an old woman does not give a child under 10 years of age a place in a foster family, and there is an institution, moreover, charging such an old town with the amount of PLN 100 for each day of the child's stay in this institutional care is unimaginable and illogical to me. Why? That's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the governor executes the judgment of the family court ordering... Last sentence, Marshal, if you don't mind. ...the placement of the child in a particular foster care, which is often the address of the family to do so, or the address of the institution to do so. Then the governor can't fail this verdict. A separate thing is that often the judges of the family court do not pay attention to the applicable law and, contrary to the statutory ban, direct children to institutions. What are they driving? They say, 'cause there are no foster families in the county. And the governor says, "But I can't fail to execute the judgment, and if I execute the judgment, I can't increase the number of foster families." So we can't punish the old men for doing the law. I hope that during the work of the committee, I hope that also during the work of the subcommittee, because the amendment is extensive...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u218	The Member is moving towards the end...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u219	...we will be able to settle this matter, hence the request to refer the bill to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. And once again, Marshal, I repeat my appeal: 200 articles and 5 minutes to discuss them this is really ridiculous. I'm asking you to intervene in this case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u220	Madame, speaking time on behalf of the clubs is determined by the Sejm, I am merely following the recommendations of the Sejm. If there is a request for a longer period of time, then we can vote it out. This speech lasted 6.5 minutes. I hope that the committee's work will allow for a full presentation of the position. Now, I would like to invite you, Mrs... [[I ask the marshal to intervene in the Bureau on such matters. Thank you.]] But we need to know from Members how long the bill takes, and then we can expand. Barbara Chrobak will present her position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The evolution of foster care in the Polish legal system since the introduction of solutions in 2012 is a road through the torment of many Polish families and children. Statistics clearly indicate that without thoughtful systemic changes the problem of foster care, the problem of Polish children and families will continue to worsen. The situation is really alarming. Since 2015, the number of foster families is decreasing, the number of children placed in foster care based on the family is decreasing, and the number of children, the youngest ones, up to the age of 7, who are institutionally cared for, is still around 2 000. One of the fundamental rights of a child is the right to live in a family. None of the children should ever grow up, not one day without care, tenderness, love and care of an adult with whom they have a relationship and whom they consider to be a parent. There is still much to be done in our country so that this natural law can apply to any child. Thousands of them are in the institutional homes of the child, where even the finest educators in the best equipped halls will not replace the family and the warmth of the home bonfire. Clearly, it would be best for each of these children to grow up in a healthy and loving natural family. But if the court decides it can't be a biological family, let it be an adoptive family, and if it's not an adoptive one, it's a foster family. It is essential to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation of foster care by creating such conditions for families to work with their children, so that more and more families want to accept more and more children. That's why it's important to have the right support for foster parenting. I am not only talking about financial support, but also about the partnership treatment of families by institutions cooperating with them, about the creation of an appropriate law which would oblige the counties to sign contracts among themselves in such a way that the family that wants to accept the child has the opportunity to do so, regardless of where the district lives in order to eliminate the so-called. The three-year district programmes containing the limit of professional foster families for a given calendar year, which often hinders the development of surrogate parenthood in a given county, so that the contract of professional foster family or family home of children with powiats is not an order agreement, but an indefinite contract of employment. Appropriate support for specialised foster families that raise disabled children is also vitally important. Unfortunately, despite the sincere desire and proper rehabilitation of such a child, it often happens that when he is old enough, he is unable to exist on his own. It is very important that children with disabilities who are fostered in foster homes are able to remain in them even after they have reached adulthood on the same principles as foster families, so that they do not have to separate their families and put the sick in a social assistance home. This will be more natural and cost-effective and, above all, a huge benefit for people with disabilities. Deinstitutionalisation of foster care is essential primarily for the development of children so that in later years they do not become residents of homeless centres or prisons so that they can start their own families and create a healthy society. Support for foster families is often support for traumatized children, children with problems. It's to show the kids how to live a better, more beautiful life. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current situation, in view of the need to undertake further work on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I recommend that the draft law on amending the law on family support and foster care and certain other laws be submitted to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. As Mrs Kochan also mentioned, given that this is a comprehensive law, a subcommittee should be set up because it is an extremely important subject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u222	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u223	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, I share the opinion of my previous speakers, which mentioned that it is difficult to conclude a 100-page bill in a five-minute speech. Too many areas, too many threads to be said in 5 minutes. I'm getting to the point. Namely, the law itself, the amendment itself is necessary as much as possible, because this system requires changes and solid reinforcement, but first of all it should come from the financial side. However, the amendment increases the spending of local authorities in this area, e.g. to extend the list of optional benefits for foster families and additional benefits for independent pupils. At the same time, apart from the educational allowance, it does not provide local authorities with any additional money to carry out tasks. This is a cardinal error that has been repeated for a long time. As a result, local governments, as we see on a daily basis, do not implement their family support activities, and in part counties do not support the care of alternative benefits, do not employ psychologists, therapists or mediators who are essential in working with problem families. There are also no family assistants, because social services are simply too small to pay for these people. That's the biggest problem. I'm going back to the records. The reduction in the number of children in foster care and their more frequent return to family homes will follow the strengthening of day support facilities. This is about extending their tasks to work with families. Today, the measures that should be taken against families who are in difficulties with the performance of care and training functions, as set out in the article. 8, 9 and 10, are implemented marginally by municipalities and social assistance centres. We do not use all legal opportunities to help our family because it is simply impossible. As shown by NIK's controls, as much as 82% Polish municipalities do not even operate daily support facilities, and existing centres are limited to working with children, leaving out work with family. Meanwhile, it is up to you to work with your family because it is the family that is most effective in the early stages of the crisis. In addition, the courts rarely direct children to day support facilities, even when another Blue Card is established for the family. This clearly shows that the child is going to foster care or institutional care, not exhausting all possibilities. Returns to natural families without a daily support facility are often unsuccessful. The child goes back to foster care, because families with dysfunctions still need to be supported, and the reasons why the child was taken away still need to be eliminated. To sum up, I would like to say that in order to reduce the number of children entering foster care, we propose strengthening the function of day support facilities, complementing this for work with family, which is precisely the result of the article. 8, 9 and 10. I would also propose to amend the provisions of the article. 26 and instead of educator introduce the position of educator of the family. This will allow the family to support at a stage where it is not yet a beneficiary of social assistance centres. Today, only 1/3 of the families that are covered by social assistance are under the care of the family assistant. It is a mistake that the courts do not direct the child to the day support facility. They explain that it's an empty record because there is no such facility in the commune. This gives the uncles an argument not to create such centres, because there is no need, there is no court order. Although it is true that such support should be given to every family in difficulty before the court takes care of it. Another thing - in the article. Article 191 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 repealed by the amendment. This will cause changes that will affect children most, but it will affect foster and adoptive families. In fact, the designer is actually motivated by wishful thinking by changing the rules of foster care financing. Now the county pays the most for the stay of the child in the institution or foster family, the municipality co-finances only a small part of the cost - it is 10%. However, in the light of the new provisions, the municipality will only bear such low costs in the first year. The longer the child stays in foster care, the more the municipality will pay - in the second year 30%, in the following years 50%. Such a mechanism can lead to the rapid return of children to the biological family, because the municipalities will simply want to look for savings. I stress: the interference of the court with the family and the taking of children does not take place for trivial reasons. These are dramatic situations: alcohol, physical, psychological, sexual, health and caring negligence. After all, these problems cannot be solved in a short time, and some can't be solved at all. The proposed change can speed up the child's unjustified return to the environment, from which, for example, it has been taken away. six months ago, because the surroundings [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was considered... Can I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u224	30 seconds, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u225	...and threatening. Family is a great value, but you can't overestimate it. Family is above all love, support, trust, not just genes and blood ties. Not always a biological family is the best place. The child's safety is paramount. I will ask you: Do you really believe that all biological parents should have a second and another chance, even if that means taking away children's right to a safe, peaceful life, though not in a biological family? I'll refer to the article. 199a in conjunction with Article. 95. The introduction of a law which, by means of an administrative decision, requires the elderly to impose fines on them for not pointing out a foster family or a family home of a child ready to accept a minor within a year, is also controversial. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of... Unfortunately, I do not have more time, but I would like to call for a thorough discussion on the committee. I'm sure we're in favour of putting this project on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u226	As I extended my time earlier, I extended it too, but I am convinced that there will be a subcommittee and you will be able to discuss it actually for a long time, because it is an important subject for minors. And now I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, to speak on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the law on family support and foster care and some other laws, print No 3023. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's replacement care amendment has a few things in it. The fundamental issue is the withdrawal of those ruling as a result of social opposition from the 500+ programme. There's no point. to divide into different groups more or less privileged in the use of these measures. On the wave of criticism, which was otherwise right, the government withdrew from restricting the freedom to spend money. This is not the case when it comes to centralising a database of individuals who may be foster families. From the point of view of the work of the family court, this is actually a facilitation. The family court, using this base, could easily and more quickly find the needy foster families throughout Poland. Today, the court's data is limited only to the districts in which the court operates. I just hope this system isn't fictional. Much depends on the update of data and availability, but here, I understand, in technical matters, the Ministry of the Family should be a guarantor. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the project, the role of the Minister himself is also increasing. As I understand it, the idea is for the Minister to be able to apply to the local government for the establishment or liquidation of adoption centres. It's a cost question. According to the regulations that are binding for local governments, the district should cover the costs of setting up an adoption centre itself. This raises doubts as to whether the central budget should also be involved if necessary. The tendency to accumulate responsibilities in local governments, without securing resources, even partial participation, is generally applied by the rulers. Especially since the rules assume that the remuneration of the foster family and the family home of the child may not be lower than the minimum wage for the work. When the foster family is additionally a family emergency, the monthly salary may not be less than 124% minimum wage. In addition, placing a child in custody would automatically involve introducing a family assistant. There would also be a ban on placing children in nursing homes if they are not 10 years old. Question: "Who will pay for this?" The project also provides for changes in international adoptions to be made at the sole disposal of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy from now on. Question: "Why is the competence of adoption centres cut off?" Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that these doubts will be resolved during the work of the committee, which is why we are in favour of putting this project forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u228	Thank you very much. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. So I close the list. We begin with Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendments introduced by this Act will be subject to the loss of counties, but the most important thing is that they will lose children. Meanwhile, there is a big problem in the counties with candidates for foster parents, and many existing families do not properly fulfil their functions. The problem is, in particular, the organisation of such care for children over 10 years of age, often causing educational problems. You want to exclude the municipalities from participating in the financing of the child's stay in a child's home. Currently, the municipality covers 10% for the first year costs, for the second - 30%, for the following years - 50% And it's not about the money, it's about the community working with the baby's family to get him back to his loved ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will be completely lost, and the municipalities will no longer care. I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry for an opinion on this matter. Do you see such a threat? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u230	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The child's emotional development is most dynamic just when it is at the youngest age. This child should be in the family. The institution of the child does not love, so emotional development will not be possible in it, it will not run properly. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to state once again clearly the number of children who are in families and the number of children who are in institutions, because that is a very important reason for this law. I would also like to call for an assistant family to reach out to a family with dysfunctions so early, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the child can be protected from being removed from the family so that the child can continue to develop with the natural parents under normal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u232	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform, to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have some comments that have been forwarded to me by the Children's Aid Work - the Rupert Mayer Foundation from Krakow, which runs an adoption centre and has already had several hundred, it seems that about 700 adoption cases, so it is very experienced, it does it very professionally. The comments that have been forwarded to me, as well as those made by Mrs Kochan, are extremely important and I ask you to take all these proposals into account. I'm not able to replace them, but I'm going to talk about a few, for example. It's about the parent-choice case. There's no element that lets you have a mental health certificate. However, if you give a child to someone, it is important that a confirmation of your psychic ability is issued. The same applies to the participation of officials, both the Marshal's office and the voivodeship, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in preparation, or actually in the qualifications of both parents and children. What does a clerk have to do with it? An official should not be involved. The last thing I want to bring up is an extension of the deadline to 10 weeks. The parent's consent to adoption may not be given earlier than 10 weeks after the date of birth. So far, there has been a deadline of 6 weeks, and it must be realized that for a child every day without regular carers is a day lost from a relationship and development point of view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask why the government is reaching for fiscal methods to reduce the number of children in institutions or in children's homes or foster care. After all, punishing the county authorities for directing the child to a care and education facility is simply a failure. This is a failure in working with the family and developing other forms of support for families. I also believe that punishing municipalities for the fact that the child stays longer than a year - every year there is an increase in funding - is an absolutely bad idea. So is reducing the work of adoption centers. I have repeatedly sought to increase funding for these centres. They're professional, and we're restricting them. Or what? 'Cause it's gonna get better? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u236	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the law on the replacement care system and further processing of it and its correction are very necessary and there is nothing to discuss at all. This bill helps protect our children. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the changes you are talking about in terms of co-financing the replacement care by the municipality. These are further costs that should be borne by the counties, while the state is not anxious to help here. There are not enough bodies that can create foster care, while the state in this project wants to move towards a reduction in the number of care and education institutions, of course each of us supports this, i.e. the so-called. Children's homes. We support this as much as possible, but how do you want to do it, since there are really no volunteers in many counties [[♪ The bell ♪]] to create foster homes, foster care? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u238	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u239	Thank you. Minister! I have a question as to whether the provision in the current law is correct, i.e. in the project. It is a provision that a child in foster care can be transferred for a period of up to 30 days to another foster family, so-called. Help. The child is exposed to stress. There are cases - in practice a lot of time I deal with cases of foster families - that foster families go on leave with biological children, while children under their care in foster care pass on to another family. I believe that this record should be completely eliminated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u240	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, the Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was gonna ask. One of the amendments introduced by this law is linked to the very legitimate assumption that the qualification requirements for social services workers should be harmonised. I'd like to ask you to make this more specific. It is specifically about changing the qualification requirements in the case of the family foster care coordinator. Isn't it not enough to have a warranty to perform such a responsible function? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u242	Thank you very much. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion, for those votes on behalf of the clubs, which clearly supported the referral of the bill to further work in committee. I think there will probably also be work in the subcommittee of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We certainly declare that we will discuss these matters in detail in the work of the subcommittee. I also think that the length of this law and the large number of changes have caused that some of the state, the people present here, have said things that are not in this law, which do not agree. If we're talking about foster care, it's the community's own tasks. We finance these tasks, not the other way around. So that's the first thing. [[The county, the municipalities aren't, Minister.]] Second thing. As far as issues related to adoption centres are concerned, since foreign adoption there is one centre in Warsaw. There's no other centers that can handle it. The adoption is also not carried out by centres at the level of powiats, also by voivodships. So there's an explanation here too. The number of children transferred to foster care is systematically falling, and this is the direction we all care about. The less these children are handed over, the better. I think that's our job together. With regard to division: Family foster care and institutional care, 75% concerns family and 25% institutional. It's falling at the institutional level, but of course we'd like it to fall more. However, there is progress, 2%, 1.5% Every year - that's how it's shaped. As far as what you were talking about, which is the matter of leave up to 30 days from the duty of foster care, we can discuss it. It was made to give the family a chance to rest or whatever we call it. But I think that this can be discussed at the committee meeting, because there will probably be divided votes on this. With regard to the requirements, as you have said, there are, of course, issues relating to non-criminality in addition to these requirements. We want those people who are both coordinators and assistants to be right and well prepared to perform this function, because the function is very important. Of course, there are cases, because we also know that there will be a person who should not perform such a function, but there are instruments that can withdraw such a person from these tasks. So we're open here. With regard to the very important issue that has been raised here, whether on punishment or financing or co-financing, this subject is open. We're open to discussion. We are aware that some of the proposals may be controversial, but, as I said, it was about bringing this up at all. It is not just our responsibility - I say ours in the sense of the state - but the shared responsibility of the state and government. Let's look for ways to make it easier for us. We're ready. We also discussed whether to introduce the so-called. Punishment. Someone here called it that. Maybe not punishment. That's how we wanted to mobilize. The idea was for this instrument, which would make the municipality have to bear these costs, so to speak, to increase the mobilisation of the municipality to set up. We thought this solution was good, mobilizing, not punishing, but discussing. If we find any other solutions, we're open to discussion. The project is indeed extensive, but also important, and I think - this discussion has shown - that we are ready to work on it at committee level or subcommittee level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u244	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u245	The project presented brings the necessary changes in order to sort out the provisions on foster care. There have been a lot of questions raised directly by those dealing with the care of children who protect each day, but they point out many obstacles to the functioning of the whole foster care system. My first question concerns maternity leave, which is for adoption families. Parents can use it until they're seven years old. Such solutions do not apply to foster families, and after all, young children up to the age of 7 need time to adopt, get attached, prepare for new, unknown ones. They need proximity at that time very much. Will such solutions be included in the revised records? Another question concerns the placement of children aged 10 and over in care facilities and from 31 December 2019 children aged 7 and above. In the records, the prohibition on placing children younger than 10 years old to take a course, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, is tightened to foster foster parenthood. And I'm asking about cases of kids like this who are going to be with their older siblings. What about the cases of the children we're having right after we're born? We make the records and make it black. -White, but their life, their everyday life, their fate is never like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the law on family support and the system of foster care and some other laws. Family is one of the highest values. It gives care, a sense of security, and is also the source of unconditional love. A properly functioning family is the best environment in which a child can grow and grow. If parents or guardians of minors are not able to provide them with good care, a warm and tender home for various reasons, state interference is necessary and the necessary support is directed to such a family. I am pleased that the government, when designing this support, focuses on putting the welfare of the child above all else. This is what the prepared regulations are designed to do, which I mostly appreciate positively. I am convinced that the proposed amendment, among others. on the functions, tasks and competences of family assistants, improve family care and increase its universality, and that the same role will be fulfilled by the regulation on the obligation to listen to the child in the control procedure and that the possibility of setting up a daily support facility will be ensured in the provisions under consideration, e.g. in every village. I also welcome the provisions relating to the introduction of the possibility of paying support families according to the tasks assigned to them, which I am sure will increase the number of families providing such support. Another good solution is to change the rules for the self-emancipation of adult foster parents and to introduce the right to maternity leave for parents adopting older children. I also consider it advisable to adopt regulations to mitigate the requirements for the education of people working in institutions which, under the new rules, will have to have higher education in any direction and to prepare for pedagogical training. As the projectors point out, this solution will increase staffing capacity by exploiting the potential of former teachers. I also have no doubt that its task will be fulfilled by the register of institutional forms of foster care, which will make it quicker and more efficient to search for vacancies in institutions. However, I have doubts about the central register including the list of children placed in foster care. This solution, in my opinion, can lead to further stigmatisation of children placed in the system, which will definitely not promote their proper development. I trust that my doubts will be resolved during the work on this project on the committee. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the solutions contained in this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u247	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the law on family support and foster care and certain other laws, contained in print No 3023, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services (prints 2987 and 3062). The committee report will be presented to Mr Robert Warwas. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u248	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits. The draft is contained in Seym printing No 2987 and the committee's report - in print No 3062. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 72nd meeting on 22 November, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 4 December, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The bill provides for e.g. develop solutions to improve the flow of information on maintenance debtors, including information on their taking up employment, between the relevant services and institutions and judicial bailiffs. Its aim is to introduce tools to strengthen the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. As a result of the work of the committee, the project has been enriched with changes of an ordering nature. They relate to the provisions of the Large Family Charter Act, which concern family support, including single parents. They rely on the correction of the changes introduced by the previous amendment. The same applies also to the amendment of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Education, the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. This change concerns the ordering of numbering. The subsequent changes made during the committee's work were due to the need for minor legislative corrections. The bill also provides for a change in the income criterion that entitles you to benefits from the maintenance fund. The benefit from the maintenance fund will be granted if the income of the family per person in the family does not exceed 800 PLN. At the same time, at the committee's meeting, a minority request was submitted to Mrs Magdalena Kochan for the Rule. Paragraph 7 (2) shall be amended as follows: The benefit from the maintenance fund shall be payable if the family income per person in the family does not exceed the minimum wage for the work determined under the Law of 10 October 2002 on minimum wage for work. This request, submitted at the committee meeting, did not obtain a majority and was submitted as a minority request. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except, first, amendments concerning a higher fine for an employer who employs an employee registered in the National Debt Register who is a maintenance debtor or shows such an employee underpaid remuneration. This provision is to enter into force on 1 December 2020. Another exception is the change in the provision of information collected in the insured account to bailiffs by the Social Security Office, which will enter into force within a time limit allowing the Social Security Office to develop IT solutions, i.e. 12 months from the date of publication. The third exception is the amendment concerning the increase in the income criterion for entitlement to benefit from the maintenance fund, which will enter into force on 1 July 2019. The fourth exception is amendments to the Large Family Charter Act and the Law amending the Education Law Act, the Education System Act and certain other laws which are to enter into force on the day following the date of publication with effect from 1 January 2019. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Finally, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt the draft law contained in the report of the Social Policy and Family Committee in print No. 3062, which was drawn up on the basis of a government draft from print No. 2987. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u249	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite you to speak on behalf of Mr Robert Warwas' Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u250	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services, prints No. 2987 and 3062. Ladies and gentlemen! This project raises a number of important issues, such as sanctions for unfair employers for the illegal employment of debtors or the improvement of the flow of information on maintenance debtors between relevant services and institutions and judicial bailiffs. You can't agree to the translation of some parents who say they can't find a legal job, and in fact they're working in black, they have illegal income. The situation on the labour market has now improved considerably, many jobs have been created and there is an opportunity to find employment. It is therefore unacceptable to avoid payment of alimony. A parent who does not pay child support deprives his own child of prospects and opportunities for development. Such a child is placed in a worse position than his peers. Therefore, the main task of this project is to introduce tools to strengthen the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. The Minister presented his achievements during his first reading, e.g. that in the last 3 years the collection rate has increased, but he also said an important thing - that its level should still be considered unsatisfactory. That's why this project is the voice of those children who deserve this money. High Izbo! Most of you, regardless of party membership, have given a positive opinion on this project, claiming that not paying child support for a crime is a very good step in the right direction and that those who do not pay child support should be condemned. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club believes that further steps must be taken to effectively assist in the enforcement of benefits. Many positive opinions from various institutions and groups supporting this initiative are also coming to our club. The only reservation relates to the income criterion and let me repeat what the Minister explained to us. The minimum hourly rate of 2019 will only be taken into account for the delivery period from October 2020 to September 2021, so there will be no situation where someone earning the minimum remuneration loses entitlement. This project will take into account revenue from 2018, when the minimum wage is at PLN 2100. Raising the income thresholds will be possible next year and, in line with the Minister's position, the Ministry will consider this, taking into account your votes. Therefore, from 1 October 2019 the income criterion, which has been frozen for 10 years, will be increased to PLN 800, which should increase the number of children benefiting from this benefit by around 60,000. It is also important to pay attention to all the elements that the High House considers necessary and appropriate, such as: like: imposing an obligation on the organiser of public works to employ maintenance debtors in the first place, changes whereby bailiffs will be able to obtain information from the Social Insurance Institution electronically, free of charge with monthly updates in the event of changes and to allow enforcement authorities to execute also from maintenance allowances received by debtors for missions, up to 50% these diets. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports all activities aimed at the welfare of Polish families, and in particular children, who, due to the situation in which they are not guilty, are not given the same opportunities to develop as children from so-called. families full of them. It is therefore so important that parents fulfil their obligation to their own children, so enforcement bodies must have the appropriate tools that the draft law gives them. And given all these aspects, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill presented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u251	Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club. But there is also a five-minute limit, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u252	Marshal, thank you very much. Maintenance debtors need to be prosecuted because they're criminals, period. None of us in this room, even with 100% presence. Members, there is no doubt. And that's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. A parent has a responsibility to his own child. Consequently, anyone who fails to do so must suffer the consequences of such a wrong act. And the bill, which includes further steps to improve the collection of debts from those who do not pay their children lightly, is a good solution. The Minister, the High Chamber, the members of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family know very well that there was virtually no controversy over any of the provisions of the Act, except for this provision, which is very strongly linked to the income criterion. The situation is not bad when one parent pays alimony and the other one raises a child alone. The situation requires immediate state intervention if one parent working for the lowest national parent raises one child. Why? Because he became the weakest link of small families. Mom and baby, because they're mostly women, they're family. And if it's that mom makes $2,000. PLN per month, falls out of the support system at all - does not get 500 PLN, because it exceeds the income limit per person of 800 PLN, does not receive a housing allowance, a lump sum, does not benefit from a whole range of forms of social assistance, because it earns too much. Plus, if your partner doesn't pay, she's making too much money to get help from the maintenance fund. This is not a situation that can be accepted. It's not. This law brings a whole range of solutions that will help to act more effectively for those who should pay child support not even to their children, but to the State that took over their responsibility and pay them to families and children from the maintenance fund. This is a bill that will help reduce the debt of the maintenance fund. It'll help. Therefore, we need not be afraid that raising the criterion to the lowest national level will burden the fund very heavily. You see, we are doing everything, and these are steps in the right direction to relieve this fund of the burden, so that the non-paying allowancers can draw their children's money and relieve the state, all taxpayers, from paying for those who do not want to meet this obligation. Therefore, if we are doing everything we can to improve debt collection, then why do we not want to talk about the weakest family here, the single parent - I am talking about it with conviction, because poverty has a woman's face in Poland, as unfortunately it is more than 90% single parents - and her child only because we artificially maintain this income criterion. And in 2007, when we put the maintenance fund into effect, this criterion of PLN 725 was almost 104%. the lowest national. Today it's 47,5%. The Minister says we're counting for the previous year. Okay, but if mom started working in 2018, how does her salary count? Not for 2017 and 2016. This is the pain, ladies and gentlemen, and you can't leave the weakest family who needs our help. We stand by this motion. The second thing concerns the procession itself. It is very sad if, in the matter we are talking about, those who bring different, different opinions from the government's opinion, face personal, unpleasant attacks or comments. It is very bad if we introduce the Large Family Charter Act to this bill in the back door, which we could carry out in a calm, fast mode through the Sejm. We don't need to mix two legal orders. And it is no longer acceptable to base the provisions of this law on the law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There isn't one. And not a government amendment, not a self-correction, not an amendment signed by a Member, but a sketch. editorial changes are being made to the bill. It's in the legislation that's unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The changes that take place in the area of child support are moving in the right direction. Revision of the article. 209 The Penal Code eliminates the premise of stubbornness and materializes responsibility by introducing the principle: zero tolerance for non-alignants, so you don't pay, you're a criminal, you're a criminal towards your own children. Fear of punishment caused the first year to double the downloadability and continue to grow. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the proposed project will be effective in improving the situation, in particular by providing bailiffs with new IT tools to quickly obtain information on maintenance debtors and restricting the possibility for employers to block executions from remuneration, who so far have cooperated with maintenance debtors, without transferring the paid remuneration, by withholding them too low or by ignoring the information on the occupation of remuneration in the work certificate, since the law provides for appropriate sanctions for such behaviour. It cannot be that one parent who is obliged to pay alimony does everything not to put on his own child, and the employer is still helping him to do so. The idea of public works deserves approval. The harmful social phenomenon of avoiding maintenance obligations will, as a rule, be balanced by the public benefit of filling in, supplementing the recent lack of hands to work. As I mentioned at the first reading, today it was already raised, the only aspect of doubt is the valorisation of the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits, because in our opinion it would be appropriate to raise the income threshold to at least 900 PLN. We must remember about people with disabilities who today receive a social pension of PLN 877 and, therefore, will not be able to receive child support from the maintenance fund. Can we, the politicians who lay down the rules of law, allow those who have already experienced fate to live in poverty when parents do not feel obliged to lay down their livelihoods? Of course, Kukiz15 supports the bill, but gives consideration to raising the income threshold to at least 900 PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u255	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u256	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! This bill, as I said in my first reading, took the right direction. We agree that there is a need to improve the communication system between services, institutions that deal with this issue. A good direction is to activate the debtor's professional activities and address this issue. We support the tightening of penalties for unfair employers and the verification of the legality of convicted employment which is not subject to maintenance obligations. However, we have a great but which the previous speaker mentioned. When the maintenance fund was created, its purpose and role were of great importance, because the income criterion giving entitlement to the fund was 100% minimum wage. By comparison, in 2007 the threshold was 103% the lowest net remuneration in Poland. Today it states, note, 47.5%. These are the names of the association for our children. For years, a very narrow group of children from incomplete families has been entitled to benefits. If the threshold grows evenly with the minimum wage, it should not be 800 PLN in 2018 and 1589.36 PLN in 2019 - 1732.5 PLN in 2018 zł. Despite the amendments proposed in the committee by the Modern and Civil Platform, the threshold did not exceed PLN 800 per family per month. This means that a mother earning PLN 1650 a month single parent will not receive benefits either from the fund or from the 500+ programme. Such a person and her child fall completely out of the welfare system. The income threshold has only increased by 10%. Where's the logic here, ladies and gentlemen? The cost of the maintenance fund for the State budget falls with the increasing level of recovery of maintenance by the State. It must be remembered that the maintenance fund is not a social service. This is the type of loan to maintenance debtors. The State has the tools, as you can see now, to enforce the repayment of such a loan from the debtor. And I wonder very much why the state saves on the weakest, experienced by life, dramatically often harmed by children's lives. I would say that not only do they suffer economic violence on the part of one of the parents, but also experience economic violence on the part of the state. You can't save money on families like this, on kids like this. The lowest wage will increase in 2019 to PLN 2250 gross, i.e. to PLN 1634 net, while prices in the country, the cost of living increases all the time and this is significant. We can't forget that. Also then, Deputy Minister Bartosz Marczuk explained that we should be glad that the material situation was 156 thousand. often poor incomplete families who lost their right to collect 500+ have improved due to the increase in minimum wage. Both in this case and in the case of maintenance fund benefits, parents and children lose this right sometimes because of dozens of zlotys. You also mentioned here that it will be counted so that the 2100 PLN will cause these incomplete families, however, to receive money from the maintenance fund. And that's where you're wrong, because these mothers or fathers are gonna make $9 too much. Children from incomplete families will continue to be discriminated against. This does not give them the constitutional right to specific State aid. There are at least 650 000 frozen thresholds without state support. kids who don't get alimony. It is not surprising to be frustrated, to be disappointed by single parents who hoped for a real change in the difficult situation of their children. Now this situation will hardly change. The state, its politics, urges children to be born, does not support those who are most disadvantaged. We again make an amendment which aims to increase the income threshold per person per family to PLN 1000. Otherwise, a slight increase in the income threshold, as suggested by the government, can only be regarded as propaganda measures which, apart from creating appearances of state aid, do not make a real change or improve the situation of children, and in some cases, when the minimum wage increases, simply make their situation worse. I also request that work be undertaken to introduce a mechanism to value the income criterion in the case of benefits [[♪ The bell ♪]] from a maintenance fund closely linked to the lowest national. And we will, of course, support the amendment of the Platform which it tabled at the committee meeting. Thousands of parents and children in difficulty are counting on us to change the law so that we can effectively help the most deprived. And let's not let them down, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas made a written statement on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. Like Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan - only on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Posel Wheel. There's two people on the list. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign up? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Ms Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You raise the income threshold if you apply for a maintenance fund and say that families, parents will qualify in 2019 because the income will be in 2018. Meanwhile, already in 2018 families fell out of the maintenance fund because their income was taken for 2017 and for the first time by 9 zlotys with pennies exceeded the threshold so that they could receive these alimony. So we find it hard to believe that you will raise this threshold next year, since you haven't done it now, and many families have fallen out of the system. In 2018, income was for 2017 and single parents receiving the lowest salary did not receive the first maintenance support from the maintenance fund. This is a great harm to single parents raising children, especially I say [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about mothers, because they're 90% using this fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u259	Another question, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15 You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask what group of children will benefit from the fact that this income criterion will be raised to 900 PLN, which group would benefit. If there is such a number, I ask for an answer, and if there is no answer, I would ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u261	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer this and the previous question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this debate. She also took place at the committee's first reading. That's two lines. The first issue that I think no one is questioning is the improvement of collection in respect of maintenance debtors. The situation is actually improving, because we have a download rate of 33%. But the debt is rising. This debt is already at the level of PLN 11 billion. So the other part, where there's funding, doesn't decrease, so to speak. That's first of all. And the income criterion, which is the hot spot. I can only repeat once again, and it is quite obvious to us that in 2019 there must be a change in the income criterion, both in the case of the 500+ educational programme and in the case of the second benefit. Today I am not entitled to talk about the amounts that will be the size, but it can certainly not be such a situation that someone who gets a minimum salary and it will increase in 2019 to the amount of PLN 2250, for this reason will lose the entitlement. That's not gonna happen. With regard to this solution we have proposed, over 50,000. children will be entitled - that is what the Member asked - for this solution. If we raise the amount to 900 PLN, we will present such calculations, because we are also preparing a simulation for higher amounts of the income criterion. Today, at this moment, in this bill there is 800 PLN, and this will increase the number of children who will benefit from it by more than 50,000. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u263	Thank you very much for this point. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u264	The position of the club PSL-UED on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the earlier actions of the Ministry of Justice, the family ministry took the initiative to create a maintenance package. In principle, the idea is right, but at first it aroused controversy in the environment of the parents. It is about raising the income threshold by PLN 75. Importantly, the parent's outrage is not the same as the amount of the raise, but the lack of listening to what parents have been saying for years. Social organizations wrote an open letter to the rulers. In the letter you can read about what has long been a power - a lack of public consultation. Parents estimate that in Poland more than 1 million children do not receive valid alimony. Let me quote a passage from the analysis carried out by the parents' environment: At the current threshold of PLN 725 per person in the family (i.e. PLN 1450 per parent with one child), together with the constantly increasing amount of minimum wage, all full-time parents with one child already during the current accounting period, i.e. since October 2018, do not meet the income criterion. The income achieved in 2017, i.e. a minimum of PLN 1459,48, excluded these families from the aid as they exceeded the magic threshold by PLN 9. The proposed amendment is to be introduced from 1 October 2019, which will bring the family group concerned back to the group of persons entitled to benefit from the maintenance fund for a while. In view of the planned increase in the minimum wage for 2019, these families will exceed the income threshold and will be left to themselves. How can we solve this problem? The solution is simple. The medicine has found PSL and it is already in the previous term - today we want to expand our idea. The rule is, a dollar for a dollar should break that spelled spiral. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also applied for this principle in the 500+ programme, because it is a good principle, which gives the most deprived program, excluded by, let's call it, a system error. I therefore appeal to the empathy of the rulers and call for consideration to be given to the introduction of this principle also in the maintenance fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance benefits after work on it in committee. How important our children are and how important it is to secure their future properly, there is no need to convince anyone, yet many parents still do not feel that responsibility. In order to limit situations in which a State must start supporting the family financially by neglecting one of its parents, it is necessary to put in place appropriate effective mechanisms to improve the collection of child support due. This project is the implementation of the so-called project. The maintenance package contained in the document adopted by the Council of Ministers - Review of family support schemes, which serves precisely this purpose. I therefore believe that the solutions contained in it must be clearly supported. During the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the examination of this project was largely dominated by a discussion on an amendment aimed at increasing the amount of income per member in the family, which entitles them to receive support from the maintenance fund. I agree that raising a child alone it is extremely difficult and undoubtedly poses a heavy psychological, physical and financial burden. In the most difficult situation are single parents earning the lowest national income, but their height excludes them from receiving many types of state support. However, this is not, in my opinion, an issue that can be solved by one, in my view, not a fully thought-out amendment. Without a thorough analysis of its impact on the state budget, there is no real concern for the welfare of these families, which should be our priority, to identify the exact sources of funding. The Free and Solidarni wheel supports the whole project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u266	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679 (Print No 3050). State Secretary at the Ministry of Digitalization Mr Karol Okoński will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679, i.e. so-called. GDPR. The project contains changes in sectoral regulations that adapt the Polish legal order to the GDPR regulation, among others. remove provisions that are contrary to the GDPR or duplicate solutions that are contained in the Regulation itself. The project therefore represents a further stage of legislative action aimed at ensuring the effective application of GDPR in Poland. The first step in legislative action was the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act. This law entered into force on 25 May this year, and Poland was one of the first countries of the European Union to ensure the effective application of GDPR through the adoption of national regulations. In addition to the adoption of the new Act of 10 May 2018 on the protection of personal data, it was necessary to make numerous amendments to other laws. In view of their number and nature, and in order to ensure a coherent approach, it was decided to make them a single bill. In some cases it was necessary to bring national law into line with GDPR by deleting the rules that were not in conformity with it, or duplicated it. It should also be pointed out that GDPR in the field of sensitive data processing or profiling increases requirements and modifies existing rules. It was therefore necessary to review the provisions in this regard and amend them. The draft law adopts, as far as possible, a uniform scheme for the development of personal data regulations. This is a huge value of this sector law and it was also one of the arguments for proceding it in one draft law, not in individual sectoral laws. Thus, thanks to this approach, the bill provides for amendments to 168 laws. It should be stressed that although at this point these changes are formally in one legal act, in practice we will talk not so much about the GDPR Sectoral Law, as could have been the case with the GDPR Implementation Act, but about the specific provisions in the laws to which these amendments concern, i.e. the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Tax Order or the Law on Public Roads. It should also be made clear that the procedure for the law after the start of the application of the GDPR allowed the Council of Ministers to adapt the content of the proposed changes to the real needs, which were largely revealed only in the practice of the application of GDPR in Poland. One example is the amendments to the Criminal Code to help combat the so-called "criminal code." A line of blackmailers. Although of course the proposed changes concern all attempts to extort money, the direct reason for them was what we observed in the first period of application of the new law, GDPR in Poland. Namely, just after the beginning of the application of the GDPR we were filled with information about suspicious offers, in which in a more or less disguised way they tried to blackmail entrepreneurs. That is why we have proposed to extend the definition of a criminal threat. It will threaten not only criminal proceedings but also administrative proceedings resulting in the imposition of a financial penalty. The project also allows patients to request one free copy of all medical records from medical institutions. It is a pro-Citizen solution which at the same time tries to take into account the interests of medical institutions. Sometimes there can be thousands of pages of documents whose preparation and transmission entails considerable financial costs. The Act stipulates that the patient has the right to request the transfer of his records and that the information contained therein concerning doctors does not infringe their rights and freedoms. According to the draft, the authorities will be able to fulfil the information obligation resulting from the GDPR in the first letter addressed to the party. We can talk about a certain shift in the timing of the information obligation. Art. 13 In principle, the GDPR recognises that this obligation should already be fulfilled at the data acquisition stage, but in practice it raises problems. Let's assume - I'm talking about the most obvious case - that the application is being made to the office. By the time it is read, it is not yet known what it is about, and at the same time reading it would mean processing data. Therefore, we have proposed that the public administration should only carry out the full information obligation in the first letter addressed to the party in connection with the proceeding. In our opinion, apart from the burden of public administration, this is in line with the expectations of the citizens themselves. The proposed amendments also concern provisions relating to central registers. For example, the regulations governing the PESEL register explicitly provide for the responsibilities for the PESEL registry of the Minister responsible for IT, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, as well as the responsibilities and access to the register of municipal authorities, the head of the civil status office, passport bodies, voivodeships and ministers: competent for home affairs and competent for computerization. In practice, these changes will facilitate the efficient and efficient implementation of the rights of data subjects under the GDPR, as the rules will clearly indicate which controller to ask for an appropriate request or request. During the legislative work, the question of whether a catalogue of personal data necessary for processing for a particular purpose should be included in each law was also considered. As a result of the analysis, including the analysis of case law, it was considered that the need to regulate in the act of the catalogue of personal data requires the assessment of ad casum each time. Therefore, when analysing whether the nature of the task is the processing of personal data should be determined. If yes, the scope of the processingable data is determined by the statutory task and in this case the directory is not needed. During our legislative work, we have also come to the conclusion that the laws do not always have to make clear who acts as a data controller. Lawyers or lawyers can be an example here. For the purposes of their activities covered by legally protected secrets, they shall be data controllers determining both the purpose of the processing and how they are protected. At the end of this synthetic summary of the main changes, which include, in addition to ordering additional values for citizens, I would also like to point out that this project is one of the biggest ones that have been examined here in recent years. Its creation was only possible thanks to the fruitful cooperation of all resorts. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a significant part of the legislation contained in this project has been prepared by the work of individual ministries, on issues relevant to their areas. However, at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements, during government work, a working group was set up, consisting of representatives of the Minister of Digitization, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Governmental Legislative Centre and the former General Data Protection Officer, the Office for Personal Data Protection. And it was this team in the course of the work and discussion that agreed on a described approach to ensure the systematic consistency of the proposed regulations, as well as to facilitate the application of changes in individual laws, sectoral laws. From this point on, I would like to thank you very much for this cooperation with other resorts and within the working group. Thank you in advance for the smooth process of this bill here in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u268	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A few months ago, we adopted a document, a project related to GDPR, which would not have been effective if it had not been possible to organise the rules that were in print today no. 3050, i.e. in a print containing an amendment to the Act amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of the regulation in a nutshell called GDPR. There have been a lot of questions, a lot of media publications around this document that we've been working on this year. There were also various companies who trained in the field of GDPR. Very often, entrepreneurs, representatives of the institutions asked whether such training and the application of such or other provisions were necessary. It is therefore a good thing that today we have a very solidly written, comprehensive document that answers the question of how to ensure the application of the regulation. First of all, I would also like to point out that it was good for the government to approach this issue in a systemic manner, i.e. that we are not dealing with an inconsistent collection of various documents produced in individual institutions, and we are dealing with one printing, one legislative amendment. Thank you very much for this, because this means such a coherent approach, in which individual ministries will be able to resolve issues related to the implementation of GDPR rules in a similar way. It will certainly make it easier for citizens to move around in a thicket of rules, because they can be a farmer - and there it is required to apply GDPR, but at the same time social assistance can also be obtained - and there it is also required to apply GDPR, as well as to run a family business - and there it is also required to apply GDPR. So if this is such a coherent, systemic approach developed by, as the Minister here pointed out, a working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Digitisation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Governmental Legislative Centre, the Office for Personal Data Protection, etc., I have the courage to claim that the document is coherent internally and similar as regards the various areas of functioning of the State. Importantly, here we have answers to questions about the concept of administrator, the concepts of co-administrators, because different personal data is used by different institutions, different offices. Here it is specified who will be the administrator, who will be the co-administrator, if individual personal data are collected by two institutions. A catalog was created in the area of... Since it is necessary to regulate issues related to the processing of personal data, a catalogue has been created, and this is also important. For example, it is necessary to specify at the statutory level a closed directory of processed data in a precise manner. That's the catalog we have here. This is important. Ladies and gentlemen! We will be working on this document within the Joint Committee. The bill's pretty solid. I only have the bill itself, and the justification is in front of me... The project has several hundred pages, the justification is even more extensive. I hope that there will be a document, which will only be the result of the necessary legislative amendments and provisions which will not make life difficult for citizens, will not make it difficult for them to move around the offices and will clearly and transparently describe how personal data should be protected in Poland so that we apply the minimum in terms of the requirements of the European Union and nothing else so as not to make it difficult for citizens to live or operate. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, support the project and work on this document within the joint committees and possibly subcommittees, if they are set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to the speaker of Małgorzata Płępek, who will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with ensuring the application of Regulation 2016/679, print No 3050. The purpose of this bill is to adapt the Polish legal order to GDPR, among others. by deleting provisions which are contrary to the GDPR or which duplicate GDPR solutions. The aim of the bill is also to adapt the GDPR to the specifics of the Polish legal order. The draft law also introduces provisions which constitute restrictions on GDPR and which have been introduced in accordance with Article. 23 GDPR. They were introduced only to the extent necessary for the proper performance of tasks by the data controllers. The draft law is, in general, a set of changes in the various sectoral regulations that need to be introduced to match the requirements of GDPR and the Personal Data Protection Act itself. The project is extensive and involves amendments to as many as 167 laws, including: sectors such as insurance, banking, culture, health and access to medical records, family and work, sport and tourism, home affairs and administration, environment, national education, investment and development, science and higher education, entrepreneurship and technology and public statistics. The project also includes solutions that respond to a large number of actions aimed at using the personal data protection reform to mislead data controllers. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the Penal Code by judging that the threat of criminal proceedings not only is an unlawful threat, but also another procedure in which an administrative penalty may be imposed. The amendment of the Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication in the Official Journal, except for certain provisions which will become applicable in other time limits. I hope this happens as soon as possible. It is a bit surprising that the fact of proceding such important changes is only now, when the GDPR Act, which has been in force for several months, in connection with other Polish regulations, raises a number of ambiguities and questions. I would like to remind you that the public consultation and opinion of this project took place at the beginning of the year, while the Committee for European Affairs of the Council of Ministers adopted this draft law already on 18 May this year, thus directing it to the meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, the committee didn't take care of him until November, and only a few days ago, it was accepted by the government. In order to prevent different situations resulting from the lack of prior alignment of our legislation with the EU legislation related to GDPR in the case of a number of specific laws and regulations, we should process the draft law in parallel with the GDPR law. A number of unclear situations could then be avoided and personal data protection rules could be overinterpreted. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club takes the view that the proposed draft amending the provisions of nearly 200 laws in force should be identified in detail during the work of the committee. Therefore, please refer the project to further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel from the Kukiz club15 is not here. Therefore, I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are proceeding with an extremely important law, or actually a change of perhaps 167 laws, which have to do with each other, that they are very important and huge. We received this bill yesterday, even less than 24 hours ago, and I admit that I feel that you are treating Members very seriously, i.e. You throw it in knowing that nobody's gonna read it. I bet the Members of the Law and Justice didn't have time to get to know the work you have done in depth, and it has to be admitted that the work is huge. The fact that it did not appear together with the GDPR makes it difficult for many people to work and I understand that it should be speeded up now, but not in such a way that Members have to debate something that they simply are not able to get acquainted with, as they are unable to properly prepare for any amendments. So that I, representing the position of the Modern Club, am in favour of rejecting this proposal for a law in order to demonstrate to you that in this way the law cannot be established in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u274	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u275	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to draw attention to the rush to proceed with such serious normative acts, which have the most often consequences of subsequent amendments to the amendment. The title of the Act itself, which only closes in digits, does not refer to the name of the Regulation. It is only a careful reader who notes that we are investigating a legal act, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2016/679 of 27 April 2016. The principle is that the title of a legislative act, of each legislative act, should refer in its name to the full and not to the summary name of the act to which certain amendments are adapted. It is clear that since the Republic of Poland has undertaken to comply with this and to bring national law into line with international law, these obligations must be fulfilled. Leaving any gaps in national legislation, in such an important area, would indeed be unacceptable. Today we have come to lean on the changes concerning as much as - Bagatela - 167 laws. It must be agreed with the Government's view that, in order to ensure a coherent approach to law-making, it has been decided to amend a single legal act, which seems logical in order to bring the legal order in full into line with the provisions of the GDPR. Literally based on the justification of the procedated project, it can be presumed that the established inter-ministerial team has carried out an analytical and thorough review of the normative acts on which we are leaning today. However, no one referred to earlier may exempt parliamentarians responsible for the diligent performance of their duties from their responsibility for the quality of the law, including its consequences for the state and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, No wise, reasonable, serving the Polish state and its citizens will make my club deny and contest. Hence, given the great extent of the revised matter, we are in favour of directing the project to further work in the Sejm committees. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of questions? I can't hear you. So I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. And you start Mr Paweł Pudłowski, a modern club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask: What is the speed of reading that you took, referring to us yesterday at approximately 7:30 p.m., with the sitting today at 6:30 p.m.? How quickly would a Member need to read to see the magnitude of this law? Please respond in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There is no doubt that the wording "GDPR" has made a gigantic career in 2018. This is probably one of the most frequently repeated phrases. This wording now has a more fetish status than the actual law. The scope of the obligations imposed on public entities and not only in relation to this Regulation is gigantic. Have you, first of all, made an estimate of the costs in the public administration of any necessary changes resulting from this regulation? Secondly, which system, I will not say: verification, but checking the application of the law in public administration offices - I am talking about government administration and local government - you are predicting that compliance and real application of the proposed rules will be achieved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u280	One more question. This is an important topic, so Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u281	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The fact that this legislation is very much needed is not subject to any discussion. I also don't question that this team has been through everything thoroughly, but it has already been mentioned here today, and I will raise this problem very seriously. Minister, do you really take Members seriously in this Chamber? To send such a serious document at an hour. 18 to Parliament, and today to demand Members to speak here from this bleacher? After all, this is disregard for Parliament, this is undermining the level of parliamentary debate and ridiculing what is happening in this Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u282	This question and previous questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Mr Karol Okoński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So, ladies and gentlemen, yes, one at a time, I'm going to address the individual questions one at a time. With regard to issues related to... whether the subject of late procession was discussed, i.e. that this law was not adopted in parallel with the law implementing the GDPR directly into the Polish legal order, I would like to say that it was indeed the intention to do so until a certain point of time, but we also pointed out that, on the one hand, the scale of the changes and, on the other hand, a certain practice of application, which was to some extent unknown, makes it necessary to give this additional time to analyse the impact of GDPR plus while observing its practical use and application, this is the time that we can devote to these additional analyses. And now: actually it was that we assumed that this shift would be smaller than it is actually - I confirm it - but it was a little bit because to some extent we underestimated the scale of this project, these laws in the course of the work simply came and at the same time we realized that the interpretation and application of this law would be very difficult at a time when there would be a consistent approach to the way in which the various laws were implemented. Thus, at a certain point in our work on this law, we decided to take a step backwards and, however, to bring about convergence, to draw from this one coherent one, in particular the Code of Administrative Procedure, a consistent procedure which we no longer wanted to duplicate in the various laws, but we wanted to assume that we could simply refer to the c.p.a. there. And that's what actually caused it. Finally, the Council of Ministers delayed the adoption of this act, because it also required discussions, discussions with individual ministries - guardians of laws on how to explicitly include something in the law in this situation. Let us not hide, it is much easier in such a natural way to read something directly in your bill than to refer to one aggregate. On the other hand, we felt that this would result in us not being able and no one would be able - even when the law was adopted - to make sure that we have the same similar way of applying the same obligations arising from GDPR in different sectors of the economy. This is why this extended consultation period, which was simply intended to lead to this approach being an analogy for individual laws. Hence the creation of something in total non-standard, such an additional working group after an inter-ministerial consultation, already at the stage of work before SKRM, to make sure that these amended provisions are, first of all, still in line with the GDPR. Let us remember that this law does not change the GDPR, it adapts Polish law, i.e. those acts that already existed in Poland, to the general regulation on the protection of personal data. At the same time, we had to make sure that the changes we were making there would be both in line with the GDPR line and clear, clear in interpretation and, above all, would balance the interests of the public administration and the citizen in the maximum way, because we were necessarily looking for this balance in how many places there were. Hence this, not another moment of adoption by the Council of Ministers. As for when you received this project, I find it so awkward to say that from our point of view, from the perspective of the completion of government work, this work ended at the end of November. If, for some formal reasons, some of you have received this document only now, then... [[Everyone.]] ...all of you, of course, as Members, have received this project now, I say: from the perspective of the representative of the government, I am unable to refer to this at this moment. However, knowing - what Mr Czartoryski is announcing - that the bill will probably be proceded in subcommittees, I assume that you will still have the opportunity to read into this draft and any comments and opinions you may have just made during the work of the subcommittee. Given, in fact, when this project was received by the State - this knowledge I had only today - it is clear to me that today you were not able to present a clear position. Nevertheless, I appeal and assume, and I would like that to happen. The project is necessary because it organises certain issues, as I have pointed out, also gives citizens some additional powers in the light of the implementation of the GDPR, so absolutely - despite some shift in time, which I think we have made good use of - it should, in our view, continue to be conducted immediately in subcommittees and be adopted in the most efficient way, but, of course, during the parliamentary debate, as is customary. As to the title - Mr Sosnowski pointed out that it may not necessarily meet the requirements for the titles of legislation. I would like to point out that this is not a law directly implementing European legislation, but an accompanying law describing the application. That is why this is in line with the legislative art and, at the same time, throughout the course of the clarification, in my opinion, is clear, which law the regulation is referring to. With regard to how GDPR is applied at the moment, at the moment, the verification method is the checks of the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. Part of these checks It has already begun and will be followed. It is only at the very end that these checks will actually show how the different institutions have properly adapted to the amended legislation. On the other hand, this law in several places will also more clearly define both the legal situation of citizens and the way in which the PUDO conducts control and interpretation of the law. We therefore believe that it will also contribute to the application of the GDPR Regulation itself in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u284	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Principles of the Management of State Property and some other laws (Print No. 3053). I invite the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u285	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday there was a meeting of the State Audit Committee, where representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber presented a generally positive opinion on the exercise of the supervision of State Treasury companies, while one of the specific conclusions was to harmonise the whole system of this supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, the project I am presenting today is in some way in line with the expectations of the Supreme Audit Chamber by introducing a more uniform system of supervision of Treasury companies. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because the supervisory system, the new system of supervision of companies of the State Treasury, i.e. the concentration under the Prime Minister's authority, has been in force for 2 years. It is now time to assess the solutions put in place. The proposed law on the amendment of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws aims to correct the shortcomings of the adopted regulations which, in practice, caused the greatest difficulties. This is a reform of this system, which was introduced 2 years ago, a reform necessary to improve the efficiency of the state's functioning in the area of state wealth management. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the world, there is no single model of company supervision in other countries. In many countries this is based on central coordination. Such practice is in line with the guidelines of international organisations which suggest that the traditional model of supervision is not suitable for dynamically developing state-owned companies. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the specific changes envisaged by the project, it concerns three areas in principle. The first area is the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers in the field of supervision. In fact, it is about extending these competences. As far as details are concerned, these competences are clarified, among others. by coordinating the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury in companies and ensuring a uniform way of carrying out tasks for all companies with the State Treasury as a rule. It should be noted that this will not apply to the exercise by a representative of the Government for Foreign Affairs. strategic energy infrastructure rights from shares belonging to the Treasury in relation to the electricity transmission system operator and the gas transmission system operator and PERN. This exclusion is also due to European law. The solutions proposed in the draft change the scope of cases in which the Prime Minister will approve voting instructions at general meetings of shareholders in companies of major importance for the state economy. Until now, these have been mainly property issues and issues relating to the remuneration of the company's authorities. After the adoption of the project, on which the High Chamber is proceeding today, the approval by the President of the Council of Ministers will be subject to cases concerning inter alia. increase and decrease the share capital of the company, merger, merger, division, transformation, dissolution of the company, exclusion of the right to raise new issue shares, sale, lease of the company or its organised part. The draft also provides for the correction of the mechanism for the transfer by the President of the Council of Ministers of powers to exercise rights from shares belonging to the Treasury, since solutions which have been in operation for 2 years have not been interpreted in a uniform manner. The project assumes that this will take place by means of a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, which will identify the entity to whom the powers will be delegated and their scope. In the assessment of the applicant, this change will increase the legibility and transparency of the delegation process. In view of the fact that there is no clear indication in the current legal state of the authority authorised to acquire shares on behalf of the Treasury, this competence has been conferred on the President of the Council of Ministers. This solution will also avoid interpretational doubts. Given that the President of the Council of Ministers is responsible for coordinating the supervision of companies with the participation of the State Treasury, the project grants him an additional tool to implement this sentence. It is about the possibility of requesting information on the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury in companies from entities exercising them. Of course, this right will be exercised in compliance with the laws on the protection of statutory information. The second area concerned by the amendment is the issue of the appointment of supervisory authorities in the State Treasury companies. The proposed amendments aim to harmonise the requirements for candidates for supervisory authorities of companies and to focus in a single regulatory act on requirements for persons designated as members of the supervisory authority by a government administration body or a public legal person. As far as further detailed solutions are concerned, from the act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities, so-called. the chimney, the regulation limiting the possibility of being a member of the supervisory body to one company with the majority share of the State Treasury and the local government unit has been transferred. This requirement will also apply to companies with a majority share of the public legal person or municipal legal person and to a shareholder's agent in a limited liability company. These restrictions will apply subject to the provisions of the Anti-corruption Act. In accordance with the proposed amendments, candidates for members of the supervisory authorities of companies as indicated by a government administration body or by a State-owned legal person will be covered by the same requirements as those currently required by persons designated as members of the supervisory authority by the State Treasury or by a State-owned legal person. The creation of a new financial institution, i.e., is another area of substance that is regulated by the amendment presented today. Capital Investment Fund. During the period of application of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, the need to create an isolated, flexible source of financing for capital investment purposes of the Treasury in the form of investments in shares and shares of companies was noted. Therefore, the draft law, on which the High House is currently proceeding, provides for the creation of a new state special purpose fund, i.e. Capital Investment Fund. The funds from this fund will be allocated, among others. for the acquisition and holding of shares by the State Treasury and for the cost of the acquisition of shares. According to the project submitted, the funds of the fund will come from the profits of single-member companies of the State Treasury and from 30% of dividends from shares belonging to the State Treasury. By means of the fund, shares or shares will be acquired in particular in order to implement the economic policy of the State, to increase the shares of the State Treasury in the company and to protect the fundamental interests of the security of the Republic of Poland. In addition to these detailed arrangements which I have presented, the amendment also introduces amendments to 14 laws. We change 30 articles in the State Property Management Act, add 11 new ones. The draft also amends five and introduces three new provisions - these are provisions constituting statutory delegations for the adoption of implementing acts, which will result in the need for eight new implementing regulations in force. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept my explanations. I would also like to ask you to accept the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u286	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will be the first to ask Mr Peter King, Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and certain other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 3053. The draft law amending the Law on the Principles of State Property Management and some other laws aims to introduce new regulations and to correct certain solutions of the Law of 16 December 2016 on the Principles of State Property Management and the Laws amended on 1 January 2017 in connection with the reform of the system of State Property Management. The amendments introduced will allow for the removal of interpretation doubts which have arisen since the entry into force of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, the clarification of certain of its provisions and the addition of new solutions, which will allow the powers and tasks of government authorities to be organised after the reform of the governance of State property on 1 January 2017 has been introduced and will make the application of the Act more flexible. The most important solutions adopted in the project concern the clarification of the powers and tasks of the President of the Council of Ministers in companies with the participation of the State Treasury. According to the project, the scope of the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers to coordinate the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury in companies is extended to all companies with the participation of the State Treasury and to ensure a uniform way of exercising the rights of shares belonging to the State Treasury. In view of the need to have an additional source of funding in relation to the state budget, the task of the President of the Council of Ministers to acquire or take up shares or shares in companies, the project provides for the creation of a new state-owned special-purpose fund, the main purpose of which will be to finance this task. The need to create a Capital Investment Fund is primarily due to the need to create an isolated, flexible source of financing for capital investment purposes of the Treasury represented by the President of the Council of Ministers in the form of investments in shares and shares of companies. In this context, it is important to indicate a change in the allocation of contributions from the profits of single-member companies of the State Treasury, as the project provides that they will be revenue from the Capital Investment Fund. Although there is no single model of supervision of companies in the world, the analysis of functioning solutions allows to select a set of best practices, whose proper implementation in Poland will significantly improve the model of supervision of companies with the participation of the State Treasury. In many countries, the model of supervision of state-owned companies is based on central coordination. This practice is also in line with the guidelines of international organisations which suggest that the traditional model of supervision is not suitable for dynamically developing state-owned companies. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this project in further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u288	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform, to the speaker. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the Act of 16 December 2016. I think that this law, as well as the day of 16 December 2016, will not belong to the boastful traditions of Polish parliamentarianism. The scale of the amendments to this Act confirms the quality of the state property management model adopted on 16 December 2016. I heard a lot of optimism from the Minister's mouth about the NIK report on state wealth management. I think that this optimism is unauthorized, judging by the assessments that have been made there, and the scale of the changes made in this law is the best distinction and assessment of how this quality of management looks. Because it's a huge scale of change, you can't talk about everyone. I wanted to take care of one thing that's quite disgusting. It is introduced in this Act, namely Chapter 5a, the Capital Investment Fund. I'm from that lecturer... Significant people in the PiS talked about why you don't have to do it, enough for everything. Today, before noon, we talked about the Reprivatisation Fund: slowly, in three years, the consumption of this fund will end. We are talking about the new Capital Investment Fund - as I have calculated, given what is in the justification of the proposed act, counting the average annual results of the last 10 years, this fund will include a large amount of money, about PLN 2 billion. Notice, where's the logic? That's all, those 2 billion zlotys didn't come out of nowhere, that was budget revenue. Suddenly, someone considers it appropriate to set up a special fund at the disposal of the de facto two persons indicated in this law, to allocate PLN 2 billion to them. In fact, these two people are the President of the Council of Ministers and, it is the second person - it is also a puriazum, when it comes to lawmaking in the Polish system and supervision of the assets of the State Treasury - the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, who, in accordance with this law, can be empowered to carry out the tasks of the fund manager. Write an illustration, there are pictures shown here yesterday on one of commercial television, presenting the Minister, who travels around Poland on a late night chartered plane at his disposal. To the question: how much it cost, is the answer: significant amounts. Why were you going? In the important interest of the state, I was to deal with important matters in the interests of the Polish state. Please note that according to the wording of the article. Paragraph 33c. 1 all this fits, i.e. basically, with 2 billion zlotys packed in the file, you can spend this money in any way. Do you not see here the danger of introducing such a provision and such freedom in terms of having these 2 billion zlotys in this case on a yearly basis? This is the money that will be raised in the fund on a yearly basis and the 2 billion will be deprived of the revenue of the state budget. I would also like to ask, what are the objectives, what are the reasons why we are looking for another special-purpose fund, whose resources we could trade in to acquire, take stock by the State Treasury? Where are these needs? Where did all of a sudden such needs come from? After all, there are other tools, funds and also budget resources to ensure that such decisions can be taken on the basis of money in a clear, transparent, transparent and transparent manner so that no one has doubts. And here all of a sudden, in three years, a lot of money has gone away, they've been consumed, eaten, and we're building a new fund, including the Treasury's assets, and we're equiping two people with powers to do it. Of course, there are provisions in this law that indicate that purchases of these shares cannot be made below market prices. I said, what's with the recipe? Is it in PiS logic that you can buy shares at a price lower than the market price? Is there a law needed to record that an action can only be purchased at market prices? I don't know if you're crazy. What is the point of these provisions that are included in this law? There are a lot of solutions. You're pretending to be, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there are further companies which are single-member companies of the Treasury, and at the same time there is a provision which states that with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, you can sell everything. So it's just a walk, pretending. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u291	We're just making a sign, and reality is completely different. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I apply to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on the rules for the management of state property and some other laws, print No. 3053. High Izbo! The purpose of the bill presented by the Government is to introduce new regulations and to correct certain solutions of the Law of 16 December 2016 on the rules for the management of state property and the laws amended on 1 January 2017 in connection with the reform of the system for the management of state property. According to the applicants, the changes made will help to resolve the interpretation doubts that have arisen since the entry into force of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, to clarify certain of its provisions and to supplement its provisions with new solutions. This in turn is intended to allow the powers and tasks of government authorities to be organised after the reform of the management of state property on 1 January 2017 has been introduced and to make the application of the law more flexible. There is so much to be said about theory, and in practice I will focus on two things, because of course the project is so broad that it is impossible to discuss everything. The first point concerns the number of amendments made to the Act adopted only two years ago. This is another example of this, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislative process which it proposes and which is essentially governed by the Law and Justice has reached the unlisted lowlands. I think it is sad that, after just two years of operation, there are so many changes in this House. This allows us to conclude that the previous bill was simply unprepared. He was unprepared because, in fact, Law and Justice have no idea how effectively, effectively, to the benefit of the state and citizens to manage state property. Of course, it is possible to confuse the eyes of citizens by showing clippings of some information, but the truth is that if after just two years such a project goes to the High House, we can talk about the embarrassment in the management of state property, which I would like to stress with all my might. The only issues that have been apparent for three years in the functioning of the Government of Law and Justice are merely staff issues: filling up successive companies and companies with their own, posting friends there. This is the truth about the administration of state property by law and justice. The second thing I want to say is about a special fund: PLN 2 billion per year. I'm asking you for what? What will the Prime Minister and the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers spend PLN 2 billion without normal in the country properly functioning rules for spending these funds? What's that for? Is this part of the strategy: a bank for a dollar, or is this about taking over? Because me and all those who have learned about this project cannot resist the impression that this is an attempt to take advantage of the nomenclature, the nomenclature that has been created in the last 3 years, at the expense of state property, at the expense of the property of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen! After all, when we look at this mechanism, which was included in the bill, we will see that in terms of impact it resembles the beginning of the infamous FOZZ scandal from the 1990s. That's what you have to compare it to. 2 billion PLN, which will be decided by two people without clear criteria, without clear reasons. In our view, it is only a matter of some form of civil property ownership. This bill, which in such a clear way shows that the State, Law and Justice, have no idea how to manage state property, this bill, through which you want to bring PLN 2 billion to undefined goals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] deserves to be rejected at first reading. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I make such a request - to reject this bad project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u295	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, I think that the Law and Justice know what it is and why it is doing it. The point is to deprive the Sejm of any control over the estate, of what is happening in our economy. This applies not only to companies of the Treasury, but also to other areas. And that's what I've seen in the last few years. We simply expropriate citizens through our representatives here in the Seym. It is a question of control, accounting, checking, because, in fact, in many cases today the Sejm has nothing to say, and it goes further in this direction. Weird foundations that arise, agencies also - we see it on a daily basis - spend money without control. Of course, this narrative in the drafting of the bill is very beautiful, about how we will take care of the image, support innovation, modernity, and then it turns out that money flows out completely for a different purpose, simply serve only party wants, party promotion. You can see that every day. It's been picked up by a lot of environments. I think there will be a time when it will have to stop, because it is dangerous for Poland, for the democratic system, for full control. If a parliament is deprived of control of certain things, it is for the smallest group of people to decide on the huge assets, the assets of the Treasury companies, the decisions taken there, as well as the measures, that it is excluded from budgetary control here in the Sejm, that is very dangerous and very bad. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will not support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's law firm, which prepared the amendment, states that the dividend fund can count on nearly PLN 1.5 billion a year. The company's funds will be returned to the bank by the Government Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. The government will also use the money from the Reprivatization Fund to buy the shares. Moreover, it may also receive subsidies from the state budget. The contributions to the Capital Investment Fund will reduce the revenue of the state budget. So how much are we talking about? What budget will the Prime Minister have for the Capital Investment Fund? This is a very bad, harmful project. I suggest you wake up and maybe change your name first. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Party, because you really have nothing to do with making good law or justice anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u298	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The recordings of this project are shocking to a large extent. I have two specific questions. The first concerns Article. Paragraph 7 4. This article is intended to enable the President of the Council of Ministers to request information on the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury in companies involving the State Treasury. So the point is to demand that the subordinate employees, the government's attorney and other people who are subject to the government provide any information. Does the current legislation not allow the Prime Minister to obtain such information? Why change the law to get information? It's just shocking. And second question. Only persons who have completed MBA studies may sit on the supervisory boards of the Treasury companies. So far, the high-class specialists will not be able to sit there, but they are in a hurry to train. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You get young people just so they can be in these companies. Why? - I'm asking. For your own.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u300	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two years ago you wound up the Ministry of the Treasury, and now you're turning the Treasury into a bank of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Because what else is this Capital Investment Fund, if not this money bank, from which you will be able to finance various kinds of fanaber. For example, recently, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński promised in Sanok that the Polish Energy Group would take over the bus factory. Now we see what kind of tool it's gonna be, but these tools of yours have already caused us to have a huge increase in electricity prices. Because you decide which company to buy and which company to buy which mine. And it's gonna look like your fanabers are gonna pay taxpayers to control the economy manually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I just wanted to ask what Polish entrepreneurs have sinned with, what they have done so wrong, that Law and Justice deprives them of their chance to reach the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. This fund has existed for almost 20 years and has served many Polish entrepreneurs to repair their businesses. Of course, they benefited from grants, loans, then this money was returned to this fund within a certain period of time so that they could serve other entrepreneurs to repair these companies when needed. Please note that in this draft law, in the article. 33b. Point 1 (3) which concerns the revenue of the Fund, you say that these are State aid refunds or non-public support granted to entrepreneurs from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund together with by-laws. For so many years Poles have been building this fund, and you want it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] destroy One move only to make more money in the Prime Minister's purse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u304	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Minister Paweł Szrot to answer questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of criticism. I am able to understand that the Members of the opposition are not responding, and you do not like the state that is active in the economy, because this is what the bill presented is going to do. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Gawlik spoke here about the assessment of the NIK, which was supposed to be different from the one I presented here. I wanted to quote the first sentence from the general assessment of this report: Representatives of the State Treasury effectively carried out ownership supervision in companies important for the security of the state. It speaks for itself. I just quoted what the Supreme Auditorium wrote. It has been stated here, also by Mr Gawlik, that it is unprecedented to indicate in this law the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers as a person acting on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers in connection with this law. Mr President, this is a completely standard solution. The President of the Council of Ministers may authorise the Head of his chambers to carry out certain activities relating to the implementation of certain laws. There's no scandal here. It is simply a technical solution, adopted as standard in such situations. Mr Gawlik, I am also addressing Mr Gawlik here - it is not true that the Council of Ministers will be able to grant permission to dispose of shares of the Treasury in all companies. Please read, in the Act there is a catalogue of about 30 companies of special importance which are excluded from this right. Mr Suchoń of Modern times asked about the number of changes and why there are so many. Mr President, we are not legal doctrinators. The law is valid, generally valid, but we learn from this practice and what needs to be changed, we change. We are not attached to dry legal provisions, but recognise that the legal system has dynamic functions. Therefore, we do not hesitate to change what needs to be changed, Mr Kasprzak asked about the disenfranchise of Parliament. I would like to ask: Where do you see this disenfranchising Parliament? The financial plan of the Capital Investment Fund will be approved by Parliament within the budget. I would also like to ask: When, in what situation did Parliament participate in the process of acquiring, selling, taking into account shares of state-owned enterprises? When did this happen? As I lively do not understand what powers this law deprives Parliament of. I'm moving on to specific questions here. Mrs Płępek asked what budget the Capital Investment Fund would have. Madame, it is difficult to estimate specific figures at the moment. The reasons for this are the amounts that could be estimated. It depends on many variables. Of course, these data will be made available to parliamentarians at any time for inspection. Mrs Czernow asked about the issues of the MBA diploma. Miss, please read this amendment and compare it with the text of the current law, with the so-called law. It's a mother's bill. This is a purely technical change, a clarification. In fact, in those records that have been in force for many, many years, nothing changes. This is not a restriction, it is merely a clarification of the wording. Mr Wilczyński asked about... This was rather, in my opinion, an opinion on the draft law, not a specific question. I don't know how I'm supposed to answer the question about the impact of the presentation I'm presenting today on the rise in electricity prices. This is incomprehensible to me. Mr Gawlik asked about the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. This fund was wound up two years ago because of the lack of funds, and the fund that we are submitting, the Capital Investment Fund, is to partially recreate the instruments that were available to the wound-up fund. Please accept this information. The government is not really an enemy of Polish entrepreneurs, on the contrary, it wants to help them, and the Capital Investment Fund will allow the continuation of this assistance. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I repeat, the government that I have the honour to represent today intends to act actively in the economy. This law, which is being examined by the High House today, is intended to facilitate this activity, to give the government new instruments and we will not depart from it, and this policy will be implemented consistently. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Please accept my explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u306	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the restructuring fund is concerned, this is a discussion for another moment. Three other lines. There's one thing I wanted to talk to you about. You said there was a group of companies, 29, which is indicated in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. In the mouth. 1 you write: There can be no sale of shares and rights belonging to the State Treasury in the following companies... and you list 29 companies. Okay, the list will increase. Just note that in your mouth. 2 is written, I don't know if I read correctly, whether I understand correctly, or whether I just don't follow the PiS model of lawmaking: the rule of the paragraph. 1 shall not apply to the disposal of shares and company rights belonging to the Treasury referred to in paragraph 1. 1 - i.e. those listed 29 companies - to a company whose shareholder is exclusively the Treasury or another State legal person, or to the company referred to in paragraph 1. 1, i.e. this, and after obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers. This is an alternative that simply gives the right to sell after the approval of the shares of each of these companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, you have the same in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, it refers to the disposal of shares and rights belonging to the State Treasury, which requires the approval of the Council of Ministers. It is cacophony, a kind of superflow, nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u308	The discussion is closed... You're welcome, Minister. Minister Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u309	Your Marshal, if I may comment on the words of the Member... I am afraid that the Member misreads the records. Or is he misinterpreting them? Of course, we can say that this is an exemption if we have a transfer between a company of the State Treasury and a company of the State Treasury, i.e. everything within public units, but if we read: and after obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers, this is not an alternative, it is a conjunction. This is a conjunction, i.e. it is required to meet these conditions plus obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I would like to inform you that the planned item 13 of the agenda, i.e. The report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Traffic Law and the Penal Code will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft government law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care (prints 3017 and 3068). I ask Mrs Teresa Glenc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee a report on the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care, print No 3017. The Sejm at its 72nd meeting on 22 November 2018 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been sent by the Government to the Health Committee for consideration. The Health Commission considered the draft law at its meeting on 5 December 2018. The Commission adopted the report. The Commission also accepted the following amendment: The 10th amendment shall be marked as point 1 and the following point 2 shall be inserted: In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 point 3 is replaced by the following: 3. Art. Point 3 (1) which shall enter into force on 1 July 2019. In the course of the consultation of the draft amendment to the Pharmaceutical Law by the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated that the regulation on mail order sales of medicines should be subject to a notification procedure. It is therefore necessary to postpone the entry into force of the new regulations by 6 months in view of the need to comply with this obligation. I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u312	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. There is no Member. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform has actually always been in favour of IT in health care. E-stories of illness, e-prescriptions, e-sleeping, e-sleeping, full medical documentation in electronic version with patient card are very good for both the patient and the payer, as well as for healthcare providers. The construction of platform P1 was launched in 2011. This is the collection, analysis and sharing of digital resources on medical events. The new rules on e-direction are, in a sense, a continuation of the work already undertaken to create e-residence, and work on e-recepts has begun. However, the provisions on electronic referral need to be better integrated into the current rules for the provision of health services, especially those which are provided later than the patient's application. It is also worrying that there are also Warsaw sports medicine and hospital in Polanica-Zdrój, only two units, which are probably not entirely valid for what is happening throughout the country in health care. Perhaps this piloting should be extended. At present, there is a fairly different level of IT for health care institutions and a thorough diagnosis and financial support would be needed for these bodies. I do not mean pharmacies that were supported by 30 million PLN, I mean healthcare providers, i.e. hospital doctors and POZ. The Civic Platform proposes two amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 in point 2, the taxable person may deduct from income from other sources of income other than capital gains expenditure less the tax on goods and services which were incurred in 2018 for the acquisition of goods or services, including the acquisition or improvement of fixed assets or the acquisition of intangible assets, enabling the connection to the Electronic Collection, Analysis and sharing of Digital Resources on Medical Events referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 of the Law of 28 April 2011. The deduction shall also apply to traders who are medicinal entities within the meaning of Article. 4 of the Law of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities. And amendment two. In the therapeutic entity referred to in paragraph. 2a, performing the task resulting from the connection of the entity to the Electronic Collection, Analysis and Accessibility Platform on Medical Events referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 of the Act of 28 April 2011 on the Information System in Health Care... Where the taxable person has incurred the expenditure referred to in paragraph 1. 1, in respect of more than one public pharmacy or one pharmacy at which it is a shareholder, the sum of the expenditure calculated in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be deducted. 3 separately for each of these pharmacies or for each of these pharmacies, the number of pharmacies and pharmacies included shall not exceed four. The deduction shall be made in a statement made for the tax year in which the expenditure referred to in paragraph 1 has been incurred. 1 and in the case of a taxable person whose tax year is different from the calendar year, in a statement submitted for the tax year covering 31 December 2018 or in the year in which he incurred the last expense referred to in paragraph 1. 1. Expenditure referred to in paragraph. 1, shall be deductible if they have not been returned to the taxable person in any form. The term "public pharmacy' used in this Article means a pharmacy which is accessible to the public within the meaning of Article. 87 (1) of the Law of 6 September 2001 on pharmaceutical law. I'm making these two amendments to your marshal's hands. The Civic Platform will vote in favour of this law once these amendments have been adopted. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u314	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! E-direction is part of a larger whole part of an IT system called P1. We've already got e-releases working, we've got a pilot on e-recipes, we're gonna get a pilot on e-direction now, we're gonna wait for the next projects that should have been long ago. We went from words to actions. There was talk of work during the Civic Platform on this system, but let me remind you that almost PLN 1 billion was spent at that time without any tangible results. So far, it hasn't really been clear where the money's gone. Now, going back to the e-directions that I'd like to focus on right now, I'm going to tell you what I don't understand. I don't understand that there were voices that were going as if they were going towards stopping computerization in the health care system. It should be borne in mind that digitalisation, computerisation is not only easier to work, because this should be the case for people working directly with a patient. This is definitely an facilitation for the patient, but it is also information that allows for good management of the entire health system. There is no way to manage well without information, and this information, which thanks to the fact that it will reach the Ministry or the NFZ very quickly, will allow to correct many errors that are in the system. In addition, I would like to remind everyone of the resistance of matter, so to speak, when the computerization of banks appeared in Poland when we, bank customers, stood up to the problem of e-bank. They started saying that our accounts would be compromised, that it would be dangerous. That's not true. Right now we all know, everyone, the average bank user... I don't think anyone imagines that it would be possible to act in a different way now than by operating in the form of an e-bank. Similarly, it should have been in the health service in Poland for a long time. That's not enough. I would still like to see an e-card with which I can, or any of you, go to a doctor in addition to the patient's online account. The doctor will put the card in the right device and see what medication I'm taking, if there's no conflict, between what he wants me to prescribe... if I'm allergic to something. This is the case in any normal country, more developed in this respect than Poland. I will point to Norway or even the most forward-looking state in Europe in terms of the health system, Denmark. It's normal there, and we have problems all the time. There's one more thing I don't understand. I'm gonna run away from e-directions a little bit. I'm gonna run off to e-recept. I do not understand the voices that may arise, that those who work in the system expect an additional salary for writing prescriptions. It's like, let's say, a travel agent was expecting an extra salary for someone who had prepared a holiday agreement or a plane ticket. These are things that I, as a person who has worked for many years, don't understand. I also don't understand the expectation that there must be money to buy more equipment. Did anyone ask, by introducing a uniform control file, or should we, entrepreneurs, buy computers from the state budget? It's the 21st century, I think it's been a while since the millennium started, and we're still talking about the fact that we don't have computers. I think we're being ridiculous. I don't believe in that kind of argument. The way I see it, these are the voices of the so-called. Brakes that show that you can pull something else out of the budget. But the budget is not something that, let's say, we're not specific. This is our money, our taxpayers, and it is not possible to use the budget for one group - to draw money to get something for free. I don't agree with that. I'm expecting you here... I will support the Ministry of Health in this action, because I believe that these are finally good movements, concrete, going in this direction, that we may be slowly catching up on what is in a more developed world, and we will not constantly have brake, who will see problems everywhere, say that something is impossible. Yeah, I can do that. We patients expect full computerization. We want to see what medical procedures are prescribed for us, we want to have an insight into it, and we want to be in this more developed Union, not at the end of Europe all the time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. The health care system in Poland has been functioning poorly for years, and the solutions adopted often hinder the exercise of their rights, especially as regards access to health services. The biggest flaw is, above all, long and sometimes artificially created queues waiting for treatments or medical consultations. In the case of health projects, we always put patients' well-being first. For them, it is crucial to shorten queues, which will be possible by developing platform P1 and introducing e-tracks. The 21st century is, above all, a great opportunity to create improvements in the exchange of information. That is why we should be glad that we are trying to introduce systems that are congruent to modern times. I believe that the experience gained during earlier work, including. the e-releases, as well as the piloting of e-learnings, and the training needed in this area for medical staff will make this stage of health care IT without major problems. Of course, I understand the concerns of parts of the environment regarding the need for daily reporting of free time, but the possibilities of new technologies are huge and I am sure that if the appropriate resources are devoted to preparing health centres for the operation of new systems, these additional tasks will not be a heavy burden for workers. I am aware that the proposed solutions are not ideal, but if we want to match other developed countries, we must take this step. The Modern Posel Club supports fast but thought-out health care IT. We will vote in favour of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Following these amendments, concerning, inter alia, Queues to specialist doctors are to be made more flexible in the management of queues by medical institutions, and patients with free appointments will be informed by text messages. That's good, but I wanted to ask, what will the government do to make these lines cut back? According to the latest data, in order to get to a specialist doctor in Poland, you have to wait an average of over 3 months. This is a very average calculation, because some doctors have to wait up to 6 years. What are the data? On average, it is necessary to wait 4 months for a visit to a hematologist or pulmonologist in Poland, for a vascular surgeon - 5 months, for a urologist - six months, for a cardiologist - 7 months, for a visit to a dentist, for a year, for an endocrinologist - 2 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are huge, very long queues. The market for private practices is flourishing. Unfortunately, not everyone can afford it. What directions will health policy take in Poland in the coming years, and what methods and tools will be used to reduce the waiting time for doctors to visit specialists? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u320	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, while continuing the matter that my colleague had just started, I wanted to ask: How do you imagine shortening the queues in which you are waiting, for example. a few years, it's about implanting endoprotese or visiting an endocrinologist if in a given region or in a big city in these queues Do you have to wait 3 or 4 years? What can change the introduction here, e.g. e-direction? Because it would only make sense if it seemed like... Anyway, we'll see what you can answer. And second question, much more doubt. It was already mentioned at the Health Committee meeting, but to me, as an old practice... It's about piloting in the field of sports medicine, which deals with healthy people, the healthiest - athletes. I don't think this piloting is a good model for those who are seriously ill. What kind of pilot is this? What's he gonna show you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is he just going to show you if the system, the computer program is working? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u322	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. One is for the Minister and the other is for the Government, because it concerns a different project issue. A question for the Minister. Why has e-direction not been covered by rehabilitation medical benefits? The queues waiting for rehabilitation are huge. The people most in need of this rehabilitation can't handle getting into these treatments. I wanted to ask: When will these benefits be covered by e-directions? There is currently no transparency in this system. And the second question is to the government. This draft law has specific financial implications for local government units. And this is another such project in recent months, almost every other project assumes financial consequences for local governments. Who and how will cover these losses in the income of local government units? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u325	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. They really, I think, contain such a single larger question: Why computerize the health system at all? In fact, this computerization should not be an end in itself, it should be a tool to support patients, doctors, hospital directors in order to make the effects of treatment as good as possible. I'm getting to the bottom of this. Mrs Navel asked what to do to shorten the queues. This is a question that slightly goes beyond the scope of this project, but I will also be happy to answer what the government, what the Ministry of Health this year - I will really say about concrete actions - what we have done to shorten the queues. First of all, we have transferred PLN 300 million to specialist advice... You mentioned the list of benefits and these benefits were mentioned above all. We have transferred PLN 300 million to the unlimited implementation of these specialized services. What's more, we're interested, you can say, in paying for the effect. [[But it doesn't work.]] Madam, we invite you to read the latest data. I believe you presented the data from the Watch Health Care Foundation report. These are data that were presented a few months ago, while data after the last months, after October, after September are much more optimistic. Why? Because it was the first time we paid for the effect. We told the witness that if they were able to reduce the number of people waiting for the benefit, i.e. colloquially speaking, shortening the queue, they would be able to receive up to 20%. more for each performance. And the ministers responded enthusiastically. Indeed, the queues, as far as these specializations are concerned, have succeeded in shortening. The National Health Fund will provide accurate data in the coming weeks. If you would like, of course we can also pass it on to you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. I would also like to talk about the broader perspective, that is, that such action is just like. Computerisation, of course, in itself... It's hard for us to tell how much they're gonna limit the queues themselves, because it's always reading from the fuss. But undoubtedly, if we can, firstly, limit the number of people registered to more than one queue, secondly, introduce flexible queue management mechanisms, thirdly, introduce where these most difficult benefits are available and there is a system of central queues, SMS notifications, then these will be minor changes that will in all contribute to improving the availability of benefits. Because these are solutions that operate in other systems in Poland, including privately funded ones, and they simply work. Just for example, I'm going to talk about the visitation reminder system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is half the number of visits that have not been made, even though someone has been enrolled in them. These are very specific numbers. And these are not just our research from Poland, they are world research and in many countries of the world confirmed results. 50% visits that did not take place and were not cancelled. Professor Chybick asked a similar question, just how to shorten the queues. I hope I managed to answer that in the first part. But you asked the second, in fact, very interesting question: Why sports medicine? Well, Professor, at this stage, at the pilot stage - and it worked for us at the e-reception - we need to operate in a certain closed ecosystem, because we want to do exactly what the professor asked: we want to study how the system works. That's what piloting is for, to see how it works under real conditions. For this to work effectively, doctors must be convinced to do so, patients must be convinced, and healthcare providers must be convinced to do so. We want to convince the doctors. Here we have quite a small group, so we are able to reach each of them effectively. As an internship professor knows that doctors care very much about their independence. All our experience indicates that if we don't convince them, if we don't face the environment and show that it's worth taking part in this, the doctors will just vote with their legs. As far as patients are concerned, when will the patient want to take a referral? Well, when it does not limit his access to benefits in any way. The question that the professor asked today at the committee meeting and during the previous debate in the plenary room concerned whether this principle of freedom of choice for the provider would be infringed. It will not be affected, but if we tell patients - and in the case of quite narrow specialization, which is sports medicine, it will be possible - that this access is limited to them, because the number of potential healthcare providers in Warsaw is limited, we will be able to convince them to take part in this piloting and without it we will simply have such dry trials in the so-called. formula friend and family. That's not good enough. You can't make the system available to the whole community after it was tested only by our specialists, because life hates vacuum and just seems like software, you always get very insightful tests before. Sometimes it takes up to half the time of the entire manufacturing process. However, I can also say the second thing: I do not know the project, in which despite the great work done during development, despite careful tests, everything worked from the first shift of the shaft and the activation of the system. That's why it has to be done gradually. And it's not just our ideas, but it's environmental expectations, because it's doctors and patients who will use it. And the third point, that is, the conviction of the providers. The more actors we need to cooperate with to ensure this availability, the more difficult it is to convince the healthcare providers, because it is always: Why my hospital, why should my clinic take part in piloting? We want to treat people. But someone has to take part in piloting so that we are able to successfully develop the digital services that Poles are waiting for in every field of life. That is why we need cooperation with the provider. It is easier to achieve it when there is a limited group involved. Further questions were asked by Mrs Czernow. Why have e-direction not been covered by rehabilitation benefits? That's a very good question. Today's referral, you know, is a piece of paper written on it, which is what we're looking for. However, in order for e-sighting to work well, it is necessary to have a very good dictionary in which all possible types of benefits are defined, because without this dictionary in fact the only thing we do is simply take a piece of paper and put it into a computer, not being able to analyse what is happening later, without being able to introduce any automation. Automation is only possible if the data is of high quality and the data is of high quality when there is a good dictionary. In the case of rehabilitation, which - you are absolutely right - should, of course, be covered by e-direction... But today we know that the preparation of this dictionary is complicated because of the number of possible entries in this dictionary, which is why we are putting it off for the next stage. We are counting on this dictionary to be completed next year. Then, by amending the regulation, we will add rehabilitation to the scope covered by e-direction. So that we do not forget about rehabilitation, but we need a little more time to prepare it properly, because please believe me that there will be no consent, approval for these systems, if doctors try to find the type of rehabilitation they want to direct patients to without success. The pilot obviously assumes that there may be errors, but there can be no errors As for assumptions, there can be no fundamental errors, because it will compromise the whole system. You also asked me about the consequences for the local government units. This project, after a stormy meeting, was supported by a team authorised to deliver an opinion on behalf of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. I do not hide that at the beginning, when we entered this meeting, the sentences were divided, i.e. We liked the project, and the local government side did not, precisely because of these effects, but we managed together with representatives of the pharmacists' community, with representatives of the Chief Pharmacy Chamber to convince representatives of the local government that per balance is a positive regulation, which supports the development of local pharmacies, which are one of the foundations of the health system. After we managed to put forward this argument, we also managed to resolve these doubts. The local government in the process envisaged for all draft laws expressed its support for such a project to be proceded, even though it would bear part of the financial consequences resulting from its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u326	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u327	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. The aim of this revision is to implement the ongoing pilot e-direction programme and to reduce the waiting time for public-funded healthcare services. The project focuses on the legal extension of the rules for issuing and using the public-funded health care system by electronic means. An important element of the amendment is to change the rules for creating and monitoring queues waiting for patients for specialist and hospital benefits which cannot be provided immediately. Most systemic changes will only apply from 2020 or even 2021. It should be noted that at present, in the event of cancellation of the visit, the provisions provide for the need to propose an exemption for another patient from the list, which often, due to the proximity of the time limit, is not interested in taking advantage of this possibility and, as a result, the released time limit is often not used. The project shall include a solution which will enable any patient for whom the initial period is between 7 and 30 days from the date of his release to propose a visit within that time limit. I share the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau that the bill is not comprehensive and contains vague rules, but deserves support in general. In the 21st century, an integral part of life is the process of computerization in every aspect of human life.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. The recordings of this project are mostly based on the experience of applicants in the introduction of e-prescription and started in the fourth quarter of this year. e-direction pilot. They clarify the scope of documents operated electronically and define a catalogue of cases in which the referral will be issued in paper form. Importantly, the project also includes procedures for using e-directions in case of failure. In addition, the amendment amends the rules for creating queues for patients waiting for specialist and hospital benefits, requires the NFZ to inform patients about the dates of upcoming visits, e.g. by sending a text message, and provides financial support for pharmacists who bought IT equipment and software necessary to connect pharmacy facilities to the system in 2018. Despite the fact that the proposed changes are not comprehensive, I am convinced that this is another good step towards improving the quality of services provided by our health care, which is intended to be used by its computerisation. I am pleased that the work on this process is progressing and, as you could hear during the meeting of the Health Committee, is being carried out successfully. I welcome the fact that the Ministry, listening to pharmacists' voices, decided to finance the purchase by pharmacy and pharmacies of specialized and necessary equipment in the IT process. I have no doubt that this will encourage them to connect to the so-called on time. Platforms P1. Rather few people have a good opinion about the Polish health system. Long wait for a doctor's appointment first, then for a specialist examination. It takes a lot of work to change things. However, I can see that the Ministry of Health is making every effort to do this. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u329	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 5 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the global climate summit in Katowice and in connection with the smog of many cities in Poland, and the Żywiec, on behalf of the inhabitants of the Żywiec district, I wanted to express my opposition to the plans to build dozens of waste incineration plants in Żywiec and its peripheries. For several months now, procedures have been in place for the adoption of environmental decisions for three such projects. Another one's on the agenda. These installations, for the purposes of obtaining permits and in order not to raise public objections, are called biomass and alternative fuels. However, detailed data confirm that these will not be biomass heating plants, but installations burning high-calorie fuel, which are non-segregative waste. The construction of these facilities is not included in the municipal waste management plan for the Śląskie voivodship, as I already asked the Minister of Environment. Burning garbage called residual waste in proposed grating installations in the context of taking care of our air should be strictly prohibited. This is confirmed by the last Communication from the European Commission which calls for a departure from incineration of waste in incineration plants. On 25 October, a vote was held in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of the European Parliament on the shape of the Cohesion Fund after 2020. The Commission has advocated using funds from the Fund to transform the economy towards strengthening recycling. The financing of waste treatment facilities would also be excluded, e.g. waste incineration. Such installations do not only produce pollution that is dangerous to human health and life, but they are still the issuer of significant values of carbon dioxide, affecting the climate and polluting the atmosphere. Therefore, I ask the Polish Government to introduce restrictive rules governing the creation of such investments, to clarify the terms of heat and combustion plants and to specify in the regulations the rules for monitoring the functioning of such installations by mandatory current control and imposition of high emission standards into the environment. We cannot be a dumpster of Europe, and unfortunately we are. So let us not be at least the boiler of Europe and the world in which operators earn money from burning pollution, without considering the health or life of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u331	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u332	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to assess the organisation and idea of the 14th International Boxing Tournament. Jerzy Krasnozna w Knurów, a sports event that is held annually to honor the memory of the fighter, but above all the coach and co-author of the success of the boxers in Knurów. He was the one who trained many medalists, masters of Poland, Europe and the world. In the hall of the City Centre for Sports and Recreation in Knurowo-Szczygłowice on 9 and 11 November we were able to observe the struggle of fighters from all over the country, as well as from Ukraine and Germany. A total of over 30 equalized and exciting duels were fought. Among them we could notice the outstanding fighters of the Concordia Knur Sports Club, among which are the medals of the Polish Championships: Oliwier Zamojski and Alan Jankowski, and the players with whom the highest hopes are connected in Knurow: Dominik Przywara, Aleksander Znaj, Adrian Gurak or Krzysztof Hołysz. As a boxing enthusiast and representative of the Knur district, where there are also Knurów, I would like to wish for activists and players of the Knurów club to return to a time of greatness from the 1990s when it reached for the Polish team championship in boxing. I am delighted that as an observer of this event, I have received the honour of opening it this year with the Mayor of Knurowa, Mr Piotr Surówka. I would also like to congratulate and thank the President of the Concordia Knur Sports Club, Mr Mieczysław Gołębie, for everything he has done so far for sport in Knurov, for his personal commitment and time and for the organisation of such a wonderful event. I also thank the coaches Ireneusz Przywara, Łukasz Pluta and Rafał Sikora, as well as the activists Jan Pluta and Gabriel Krzewowski for their entire work and for setting an exemplary example in training through sport. The stands were also attended by former representatives of Poland in boxing and later coaches: Bogdan Danielak, Sławomir Marciniak, Marek Koman, and the wife of Jerzy Krasnowona Aniel Krasnożon with her son and former President of Concordia Knurów Krzysztof Leśniowski, who continues to support fighters in Knurow. High Izbo! In my statement I mentioned many good names, because all of these people deserve to be praised for their activities for the development of young people and the promotion of sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u333	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to address Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, in connection with a very surprising decision which reached the inhabitants of Suwałk, Augustów, Sejn, Sejneńszczyzny, Suwałszczyzna, concerning the liquidation of the direct railway connection between Suwałki - Kraków and Kraków - Suwałki. Minister! I would like to point out that Suwałki has only two connections of Intercity trains: one to Szczecin, the other to Suwałk, and the elimination of the direct connection of Suwałki - Kraków and Kraków - Suwałki is a very difficult situation for a large group of young people studying in Krakow, as well as for people employed in the southern and central part of the country, not to mention tourists, because this connection, as far as the summer and winter season, period of holidays and holidays are concerned, is very well covered and is really used almost 100%. This is a very important communication solution for the inhabitants of this region. I will just mention that this connection has been in place since 2015 and during these 3 years travelers have become accustomed to the connection, which gives them not only the comfort of driving without any change, but also allows them to travel by rail at reasonable toll rates. From my information it appears that the timetable of PKP Intercity for 2018/2019 has already been approved and is at the implementation stage. Sadly, we find that this combination is removed from this distribution. Interested persons point to the hurting and laconic communication that appeared on the PKP Intercity website, referring to the survey that was previously published there. Allegedly, in the construction of the annual timetable, passengers' opinions were taken into account, but it turns out that practically no one knew about this case, and only a handful of people participated in the consultation process. It should be noted here that no one from PKP Intercity asked the Suwałski local government, the neighbouring local authorities, the Augustów district, the Sejne district to express their views on the matter and did not send any information on the ongoing consultations on the new distribution. Such action undermines the reputation of PKP Intercity as a reliable carrier, fulfilling its mission in an appropriate manner. The elimination of the long-distance railway connection with Suwałk deepens the communication isolation of our city and region in north-eastern Poland. In my opinion, this is also in clear contradiction with government declarations concerning the need to strengthen the development potential of Eastern Poland and to compensate for disparities in the level of development and availability of communication between this region and other parts of Poland. In view of the above, Minister, I would like to ask - and I would like to ask very much on behalf of all the residents of Suwałski, Sejneński, Augustów, Suwałszczyzny - for the restoration of the direct train connection to Kraków - Suwałki and Suwałki - Kraków for 2019. Will the people of north-eastern Poland have to wait for the fast train and long-distance connections by 2026 or longer, when it is scheduled to complete the construction of Rail Baltica, which will connect Berlin and Helsinki, and whose thread of the train connection runs through Suwałki? I think this appeal on behalf of all the residents will be heard by the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and that this connection will be maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u335	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage decided to reduce the grant for the European Solidarity Centre in Gdańsk by over PLN 3 million. This could put his operation in jeopardy. Lowering the current budget from 7.1 million to 4 million, i.e. by 44%, announced Minister of Culture Piotr Gliński. I'm asking if this is a punishment for Gdansk's low support for the PiS. The government should share our money, given the sense and rationality, not the political line. It is not possible to grant or receive funds for an institution that cares about the image of Poland, to ensure that the memory of true solidarity, the one that connected Poles, never disappeared and was not falsified. Mr Kornel Morawiecki - the Prime Minister's father - who represents Minister Gliński in the ECS Council, claims that the activities of the European Solidarity Centre are false. I ask you, what is false about ECS? Is it that it supports the development of associations and foundations? Is it that he supports young people and cares for the good name of this true!Solidarity? Solidarity from the time when Poles were truly united. Does that bother the government so much? They are disturbed by the fact that ECS does not forge history and does not present Lech and Jarosław Kaczyński as the only leaders of Solidarity, but shows the truth. There's only one truth. The truth is that the solidarity created 10 million Poles, and its first and legendary leader was Lech Wałęsa. As a Gdansk girl, I'm not gonna let the PiS government ruin our history. We should be proud of it because it was the Poles who first freed themselves from the communist dictatorship. Institutions such as the European Solidarity Centre should continue to function and take care of the Polish historical identity, and each subsequent government should be proud of the ECS and not delete part of the money for its functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u337	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the granting of the title to Jelenia Góra City Friendly to Fair Trade. Jelenia Góra was the first in Lower Silesia and the second in Poland, after Poznań, won the title Friendly City for Fair Trade. The certificate was given during the holiday of the city - September Jeleniogórskiego. Thus Jelenia Góra joined the group of over 2 thousand. cities in 34 countries of the world with the title of Fair Trade Towns. This honorable title is the culmination of the six-year activities carried out by the coordinating group of campaigns to promote the idea of fair trade, sustainable development and responsible consumption among the people of Jelenia Góra. The campaign involves and continues to involve the Jelenio Góra schools, kindergartens, cultural units, non-governmental organisations, entrepreneurs and local government, as well as residents. Thanks to the campaign, Jelenio Góra consumers consciously choose ethical products in shops, whose production does not involve violations of human rights, labour rights or environmental degradation. Fair trade products are marked by the international Fairtrade certification system. The most frequently available Fairtrade certified products are coffee, tea, chocolate, cocoa, cane sugar, bananas, but also cotton clothing and offer of these products are constantly increasing. Fair Trade is a bottom-up international social movement aimed at improving the living conditions of small producers from the countries of the global South. Thanks to it, poor people in Asia, Africa, Latin America can work decently, receive an honest price for their products, but they can also establish fair trade relations with a richer part of the world. The Fair Trade Movement is created by NGOs, volunteers, activists and companies and, of great importance, with the participation of consumers. The implementation of fair trade rules has a real impact on tackling poverty, slave labour, including the use of children for hard work, lack of access to markets and dependence on aid received from highly developed countries. The Fair Trade Movement has developed methods to control compliance with Fairtrade standards at all stages of the production and distribution of products through which consumers have a guarantee of origin and quality of goods marked with this mark. Fair trade is not just trade, but a much broader idea of justice in world trade. It points to the need to change traditional trade rules and practices in such a way that people are placed first. In the 21st century fair trade should become the most recognizable form of development aid for the countries of the poor south. I am proud that my city, Jelenia Góra, has won this noble title as a City Friendly to Fair Trade. I urge and encourage ladies and gentlemen and local authorities in cities to engage in the great idea of international solidarity with the people of poor countries in the fair trade movement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u339	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 25th, 37 years passed since the day when the Podhorążs of the Higher Officer's Fire School in Warsaw launched a strike against the statutory militarization of this formation so that it could be used against society. The strike ended on 2 December 1981 with a brutal attack on the school building from the air in front of the population gathered around the school, the removal of the sick and fictitious liquidation of the school, later established of military status with violations of the laws of that time. The condition for admission to this new, still functioning facility was the signing of a loyalty with the content of: The awareness of the paramilitary nature of the fire service and the related obligations, I declare to take up a course voluntarily at the Fire University. At the same time, I undertake to comply strictly with the obligations arising from the nature of the fire service and the legislation governing university education. Warsaw, the day... 1981, signature. Those who didn't break, didn't sign the Loyalty, weren't allowed to continue their studies, were demoted. They were often affected by chicanes in attempts to study at other universities, as well as in later professional work. To this day the decision on degradation and its consequences has not been revoked, and by refusing to act, officials refer to the rules of martial law. As a result, the period of service before the strike is not a retirement pension. It is one of the social groups, which in no way has been compensated for the harm suffered during communist rule. It's a small group, about 70 sick people. I hope that those who did not strike at that time or decided to sign a loyalty, and who are now in high positions in the fire department, will not block the decision to restore this group of sick people to elementary justice. I hope that the High House will make the necessary changes to the law so that this can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-05-sejm-73-1.u341	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 6 December 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 36]]
